اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Importance of Salah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

ا َلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ ا للہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of blessed Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ مِاءَۃً کَتَبَ اللّٰہُ بَیْنَ عَیْنَیْہِ بَرَاءَ ۃً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَاءَۃً مِّنَ النَّارِوَاَسْکَنَہُ اللّٰہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مَعَ الشُّہَدَاءِ

i.e. The one who recited Durood upon me hundred times, Allah Almighty inscribes between both his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and fire of Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, He will keep him with martyrs. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for pleasing Allah Almighty and attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, let us listen to the importance of Salah, benefits of offering Salah and harm of leaving Salah.

Flames of fire in grave

Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions an admonitory parable on page no. 20 of his booklet “Kafan Choron ke Inkashafat” [Disclosures from shroud thief]: A man’s sister died. After he returned having buried her, he recalled that his pouch of money had dropped into her grave. So he came to the graveyard to dig it out from the grave. When he dug the grave open, he saw a terrifying scene. The flames of fire were blazing in the grave of his sister. He quickly filled up the grave and rushed to his mother and asked, ‘Dear mother! What were the deeds of my sister?’ She said, ‘Son! Why are you asking?’ He replied, ‘I have seen flames of fire blazing in her grave.’ On hearing this, his mother began to cry and said, Alas! ‘Your sister was sluggish in Salah and would offer Salah after the stipulated time (i.e. she used to offer Salah after making it Qada).’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 189)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know from the aforementioned narration that being lazy in offering Salah is a very big sin and a cause for the punishment of grave. We shall also offer all five Salahs with full enthusiasm in Masjid with Jama’at and not observe laziness in Salah at all.

Being lazy in Salah is a sign of hypocrites. When hypocrites used to stand for Salah with Muslims, they used to be lazy in doing so. The reason because their hearts were void of Iman [faith], hence, they were unable to relish the pleasure of worship. They used to offer Salah just to show off to people. Allah Almighty says regarding them in 142 nd Ayah of Surah Nisa, Part 5:

وَ اِذَا قَامُوْۤا اِلَى الصَّلٰوةِ قَامُوْا كُسَالٰىۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: A nd when they stand up for Salah, they do it unwillingly.

Under this Ayah, it is written in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Not offering Salah, offering it in front of people but not when alone,

bringing other thoughts in your mind while offering Salah, not making efforts to offer it with composure and contentment, etc., are all signs of laziness. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 2, pp. 335)

Alas! We miss our Salah just because of laziness in our society today, whereas, we immediately become active from being lazy when it comes to committing a sin. There are such people as well that if they miss one or more Salahs, then they don’t offer Salah deliberately for weeks, rather months. If any well-wisher Islamic brother performs individual efforts and persuades them to offer Salah, then they reply saying: “(اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ), I will resume offering Salah from next Friday”, or “I will start offering Salah properly from next Ramadhan”, etc. In other words, it is as if we very shamelessly and boldly admit the fact that (مَعَاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ), we will continue committing this major sin of missing Salah until next Friday or Ramadhan. This is undoubtedly a result of having no Divine fear and any passion for worship. Otherwise, the one who has the Divine fear and passion for worship in his heart, he punctually offers Salah in every state and refrains from the disobedience to Allah Almighty.

Remember! Missing Salah deliberately is a major sin, ‘Haraam act and an action that leads towards the Hell. Allah Almighty says in Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah no. 59:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So after them in their place came those unworthy successors who missed Salah and pursued their lusts, so they will soon encounter the jungle of Ghayy in Hell (a dreadful valley in Hell).

Terrifying valley and frightening well of the Hell

Dear Islamic brothers! The aforementioned Ayah talks about “Ghayy” . It refers to a valley of Hell. Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: “Ghayy” is a valley in the Hell which has the most heat and depth. There is a well in it called “Hub Hub”. When the fire of Hell gets close to extinguishing, then Allah Almighty opens up that well which makes the fire of Hell blazing just like before. (Allah Almighty says):

کُلَّمَا خَبَتۡ زِدۡنٰہُمۡ سَعِیۡرًا) ۹۷ (

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whenever it will be about to extinguish, We will intensify the flame.

This well is for those who miss Salah, fornicators, alcoholics, interest takers and the ones who oppress parents. (Bahar-e-Shari'at, vol. 1, pp. 434; summarised)

Punishment of Hell and difficulties of the world

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that “Ghayy” is a valley in the Hell which has most depth and heat. When the fire of Hell gets close to extinguishing, then this valley is opened up which blazes back the fire of Hell. Just imagine, what will a non-Salah-offering person go through when he will be thrown into it? Remember! Hell is the place for the wrath of Allah Almighty to be revealed at. The way there is no limit to His mercy and blessings and human intellect cannot comprehend it, similarly, there is no limit to the wrath of Allah Almighty either.

Any harmful thing that one can think of, for example, plucking a living person’s nails using a tool; beating someone with a knife or stick; fracturing someone’s bones by driving a vehicle over his body; pouring salt and pepper over someone after severing his body organs; peeling off the skin from the body of a living person; operating someone without giving him anaesthesia; or the sufferings of different ailments such as headache, fever, stomach ache; or sufferings of serious illnesses such as heart attack, cancer, kidney stone pain, itch or severe stress, etc., or all the diseases, worldly calamities and hardships that one can think of are very insignificant in front of the torments of the Hell. In short, if all the illnesses and calamities of the world are inflicted upon a person, they are still not even equal to the slightest punishment of the Hell.

Slightest punishment of the Hell

What is the slightest punishment of the Hell? Regarding this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who will be afflicted with the slightest punishment of Hell will be made to wear the shoes of fire. Due to it, his brain will boil the way a copper pot boils. He would be under the impression that

he is subjected to the severest of the punishments, whereas, this would be the slightest punishment upon him.’ (Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 111, Hadees 517)

O devotees of Rasool! Fear the torment of Hell. Feel pity on your weak bodies. Abandon laziness, refrain from sins and start offering Salah. Alas! Some people miss their Salah by indulging in useless activities. They don’t even realise the fact that they are continuously disobeying Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty is blessing us with countless blessings day and night without us asking for them, but some people are deprived of prostrating in His court only five times a day.

Alas! In order to remain protected against worldly diseases, problems and hardships, we start Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations) instantly told to us by people, but Allah Almighty, Who has commanded us to offer Salah hundreds of times in the Holy Quran, everyone should ponder that how much do I act upon this command? When I am called to present myself in the court of Allah Almighty, how many times do I say “Labbaik” and go to the Masjid? Everyone should ponder that the five times daily call from the Masjid that calls towards success, do I ignore it or do I go to the Masjid leaving everything behind? Alas! So many heedless people still remain asleep heedlessly despite hearing about the punishments of the grave, severities of the Hell and terrors of the Judgement Day. May Allah Almighty truly wake us up from the sleep of heedlessness.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We shall also offer all five daily Salahs punctually. In order to develop the fear of the Divine torment and the habit of offering Salah, let’s listen to 4 admonitions for not offering Salah.

1. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْه ُ states: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised me: Do not associate partners to Allah Almighty even if you are torn into pieces and burnt. Do not leave Fard Salah deliberately because the one who misses Salah deliberately, refuge is lifted away from him. And do not drink alcohol at all because it is the root of every evil. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 376, Hadees 4034)

2. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who left Salah will meet Allah Almighty in such a state that Allah Almighty will have wrath upon him. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 2, pp. 26, Hadees 632)

3. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who left Salah decreased his household and wealth. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 132, Hadees 19085)

4. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who missed Salah deliberately is verily deprived of Allah’s mercy. (Mu'jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 12, pp. 195, Hadees 13023)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: A non-Salah offering person does not stay under the refuge of Allah Almighty. By the virtue of the blessing of Salah, a person remains protected from calamities in this world, a bad end at the time of his death, failing (the test of) grave, and severities of the Judgement Day by the grace of Allah Almighty. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 79; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Being heedless in regards to Salah is a means of Allah Almighty’s displeasure, being deserving of the Hell and blessings being taken away from the households and wealth. While commanding us to punctually offer our Salah, Allah Almighty says in Part 2, Surah e Baqarah, Ayah no. 238:

حٰفِظُوْا عَلَى الصَّلَوٰتِ وَ الصَّلٰوةِ الْوُسْطٰىۗ-وَ قُوْمُوْا لِلّٰهِ قٰنِتِیْنَ(۲۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Guard all your Salahs and (particularly) the middle Salah, and stand with devotion before Allah.

Importance of Salah can also be judged from the fact that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم supplicated for Salah to remain established for himself as well as his offspring. It has been mentioned in Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah no. 40 in the following way:

رَبِّ اجْعَلْنِیْ مُقِیْمَ الصَّلٰوةِ وَ مِنْ ذُرِّیَّتِیْ ﳓ رَبَّنَا وَ تَقَبَّلْ دُعَآءِ(۴۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O my Lord! Make me the one who keeps Salah established, and (also) to some of my offspring. O our Lord! And answer my supplication.’

Remember! Even on the Day of Judgement, the first question will be regarding Salah. It is stated in a Hadees: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَایُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَا تُہٗ i.e. On the Day of Judgement, the first thing a bondman will be questioned about is his Salah’. Under this Hadees, ‘Allamah Abdul Rauf Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Undoubtedly, Salah is the symbol of Iman [faith] and essence of worship.’ (At-Tayseer, vol. 1, pp. 391)

A person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and asked about the most superior action three times. All three times, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the same reply that: Salah is the most superior action. (Musnad Imam Ahmed, vol. 2, pp. 580, Hadees 6613)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! We shall also understand the importance of Salah and not only offer all 5 Salahs punctually .

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

3 Sayings of Allah Almighty regarding Salah

Dear Islamic brothers! If someone doesn’t offer Salah even after knowing the importance of it, then such a person is an extremely foolish person and gathers the means for entering the Hell himself. Offering Salah is the source of gaining blessings in this world and the Hereafter. At various places in the Holy Quran, it not only commands us to offer Salah, but also persuades us to offer it by mentioning its reward. Let’s listen to three saying of Allah Almighty in this regard:

Allah Almighty says in part 6, Surah Nisa, Ayah No. 162:

وَ الْمُقِیْمِیْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ سَنُؤْتِیْهِمْ اَجْرًا عَظِیْمًا۠(۱۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who keep Salah established, and give Zakat, and believe in Allah and the Last Day; to such (people), We shall soon give a great reward.

Allah Almighty says in part 9, Surah Anfaal, Ayah No. 3 and 4:

الَّذِیْنَ یُقِیْمُوْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ یُنْفِقُوْنَؕ(۳) اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٌ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ وَ مَغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Those who keep Salah established and spend some in Our Path from what We have provided for them. Only these are true Muslims; for them are ranks with their Lord, and is forgiveness and honourable sustenance.

Allah Almighty says in part 6, Surah e Ma'idah, Ayah No. 12:

وَ قَالَ اللّٰهُ اِنِّیْ مَعَكُمْؕ-لَىٕنْ اَقَمْتُمُ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَیْتُمُ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah said, ‘Indeed I am with you. Undoubtedly, if you keep Salah established, and pay Zakat, and believe in My Messengers and respect them, and lend Allah a good loan, so I will surely remove your sins, and I will surely admit you to Gardens; beneath which rivers flow.

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! What great rewards are there for Salah-offering people in the court of Allah Almighty. At some places, they are given the glad tidings of Paradise and forgiveness, and at other places, they are given the glad tidings of a great reward. Even in blessed Ahadees, there has been a great emphasis on the persuasion of offering Salah. If we abandon all our worldly activities as soon as the time for Salah approaches and start getting ready to offer Salah and offer it with Jama’at with humility of body and full concentration, then not only will it enable us to gain the blessings of this world but one benefit of the Hereafter would be that the same Salah will become a means of our salvation and forgiveness on the Day of Judgement.

Forgiveness of the one offering Salah with humility and self-mortification

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah Almighty has made 5 Salahs Fard. The one who performs proper Wudhu for them, offers them in their

due time, and completes its Ruku and Sujood with humility, then it is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty to forgive him. And the one who does not offer them [the 5 daily Salahs], then he will be deprived of the mercy of Allah Almighty. If He Almighty wills, He may forgive him and if He wills, He may punish him. (Abu Dawood, Raqm 1, 425/186)

Salah wipes off sins

O devotees of Rasool! Those fortunate Muslims who offer the five daily Salahs, all their sins are forgiven. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘If anyone among you has a stream in his courtyard and takes bath in it 5 times a day, would any dirt remain on him?’ People humbly replied: ‘No.’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Salah wipes away sins in the same manner as water washes away dirt.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 2, pp. 165, Hadees 1397)

Every Salah is an atonement for the previous sins

Those fortunate individuals who are used to offering Salah, let’s suppose, if sins get committed by them in between two Salahs, then the second Salah becomes an atonement for those sins. I.e. Allah Almighty forgives the sins committed between two Salahs.

Sayyiduna Haaris رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that one day, we and Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were seated. In the meanwhile, the Muazzin (one who calls Azan) came. Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked for water and performed Wudhu. Then, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘I saw the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performing Wudhu in the similar manner. I also heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: ‘The one who performs Wudhu the way I have performed and then offers the Zuhr Salah, Allah Almighty forgives his sins, i.e. the sins that were committed between Fajr and Zuhr. Then when he offers ‘Asr Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between Zuhr and ‘Asr. Then when he offers Maghrib Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between ‘Asr and Maghrib. Then when he offers Isha Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between Maghrib and Isha. Then it is possible that he spends the entire night lying down. Then when he gets up, performs Wudu and offers Fajr Salah, then the sins committed between ‘Isha and Fajr are forgiven. These are the virtuous deeds that remove the evils.’ (Al Ahadees-ul-Mukhtarah, vol. 1, pp. 450, Hadees 324)

Salah contains cure

O devotees of Rasool! Those fortunate individuals who offer all 5 daily Salahs, Allah Almighty grants them cure from diseases by virtue of it. Nowadays, such new diseases are being diagnosed that were not even heard of in the past. Despite spending millions on their treatment, the diseases keep increasing. If we act upon the blessed sayings of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and start offering Salah punctually, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we can also attain cure from diseases.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اِنَّ فِی الصَّلٰوۃِ شِفَاءً i.e. Indeed, there is cure in Salah. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 98, Hadees 3458) Therefore, no matter whether we are ill or healthy, we should not only offer Salah punctually ourselves, but also make our households used to offering Salah.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Salah is a great form of worship. For a believer, Salah is a great act that leads her towards the Paradise. Paradise becomes Wajib for the one who offers two Rak’at Salah with extreme humility of the body and full concentration. Two Rak’at Salah is better than this world and whatever it contains. Salah is a beloved action in the sight of Allah Almighty. In exchange for every Sajdah in Salah, one righteous deed is written down, one sin is erased and one rank is elevated. A Salah-offering person will be made to enter Paradise on the Day of Judgement with peace. Salah wipes off sins. Salah washes away the filth of sins. One Salah erases the sins committed during the previous Salah. A Salah-offering person spends the night in goodness. Salah erases sins. A Salah-offering person will enter Paradise. Ma'soom [innocent - sinless] angels request in the court of Allah Almighty for the forgiveness of the Salah-offering person. A Salah-offering person remains under the protection of Allah Almighty. Salah supplicates for the protection of the Salah-offering person. A Salah-offering person is a complete believer. A Salah-offering person will be given full reward. Salah disgraces Satan.

So let’s make the intention that from now onwards, we will not miss any Salah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will offer all daily 5 Salahs اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will persuade others to offer Salah as well, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Moreover, in order to

adopt this Madani mindset, we will firmly attach ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and actively continue to take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will keep acting upon the Madani In'amaat اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We were listening about the importance and virtues of Salah. Remember! Salah is a pillar of Islam. Salah prevents one from diseases. Salah is a means of blessings in the sustenance. Salah not only saves one from the punishment of grave but is also a source of light for the dark grave. Wherever it has been commanded to offer Salah in the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees, it refers to offering it with all its Faraaid and Wajibat.

Nowadays, various people try to surpass each other in worldly matters. For example, if they see a beautiful house, they will also desire for it. If they came across someone wearing clothes of an excellent garment, then same wish would arise in their hearts too. If they see someone in a brand new car, then they would also desire to have it. If they see someone running a successful business, then they would also dream of becoming rich. In short, people have become so greedy in the love of the wealth of this world that they make efforts tirelessly day and night to acquire it. If only we could also start acting upon righteous actions by seeing someone performing righteous deeds. If only we could also develop the yearning for offering all five daily Salahs with Jama’at when we see others going towards the Masjid. If only we could also start loving Masajid when we see others loving the Masajid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, A’la Hazrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embarked on great journeys and bore the difficulties of the travel, but always offered Salah with Jama’at. In this regard, let us listen to a faith enlightening parable .

A’la Hadrat’s رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه love for Salah

When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for the journey of Hajj for the second time at the age of 52, then he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell so ill after performing the rites of Hajj that he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained bedridden for more than two months. When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recovered a bit, he got ready to behold the blessed Raudah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He travelled through a boat and reached a place

called “Raabigh” after three days via Jeddah. From there, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rode upon a camel to go to Madina-e-Munawwarah. During this journey, when he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached “Beer-e-Sheikh” [ بیرِ شیخ ], then destination was nearby but very less time was left for Fajr Salah.

The camel owners decided to stop the camels at the destination. But by then, there was a risk that the time of Fajr would pass. Seeing this situation, A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped there with his companions and the caravan left.

The camel owners decided to stop the camels at the destination. But by then, there was a risk that the time of Fajr would pass. Seeing this situation, A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped there with his companions and the caravan left. He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a canvas bucket but did not have a rope, and the well was quite deep as well. Therefore, they tied it with their turbans and drew water out of the well. Then they performed Wudhu and offered Salah within its due time. Now, they were worried that due to being ill for so long, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had become very weak. How would he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه walk for so many miles? When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه turned his face, he saw a stranger camel rider waiting. He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thanked Allah Almighty and rode upon it. (Malfuzaat-e-A'la Hazrat, pp. 217)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ, o devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! This is the passion of Salah and worship of A’la Hazrat. Despite being ill for months, severe weakness and bearing the hardships of the journey, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left the caravan but did not leave the most superior act of worship, i.e. Salah. We shall punctually offer Salah on every occasion, whether it is an occasion of happiness or sorrow. Moreover, those who do not know how to offer Salah shall not feel embarrassed at all in learning it. Those who know how to offer Salah but do not offer due to falling prey to the satanic whispers such as “I am a grave sinner. I am not worthy of presenting myself in the court of Allah Almighty.” or “Let me become pious first. Let me grow a beard first. Then I will start offering Salah”, such people should remove such satanic whispers straightaway and start offering Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to its blessings, they will succeed in refraining from sins. Allah Almighty says in Part 21, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah No. 45:

اِنَّ الصَّلٰوةَ تَنْهٰى عَنِ الْفَحْشَآءِ وَ الْمُنْكَرِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Salah stops indecency and evil.

In the commentary of this Ayah, Sadr-ul-Afazil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The one who is punctual in his Salah and offers it properly, as a result of this, he will abandon those sins one day that he was indulged in once. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that a young Ansari man used to offer Salah with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He used to commit various major sins. People complained about him to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘His Salah will stop him from those sins one day.’ Therefore, he repented in near future and became a lot better. (Khaza'in-ul-'Irfan summarised)

Thief became Wali due to the blessing of Salah

Let’s listen to a beautiful parable in this regard: It is narrated that a thief entered the house of Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا at night time. He searched through the whole house but could not find anything except for a lota (ewer). When he intended to leave, then she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا said: ‘If you are a wise and clever thief, then you will not leave empty handed.’ He said: ‘I could not find anything.’ She رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا said: ‘O poor man! Perform Wudu with this lota (ewer) and enter the room and offer 2 Rak’at Salah. You will leave from here with something.’ He performed Wudhu as per her instructions.

When he stood for Salah, then she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا supplicated in the following manner: ‘O Allah Almighty! This man came to my house but could not find anything. Now, I have made him stand in Your court. Do not deprive him of Your grace and mercy.’ When he completed his Salah, he relished the sweetness of the worship. Therefore, he remained engaged in offering Salah until the last part of the night. When the time of Sahari arrived, Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا heard him saying while scolding his Nafs in the state of Sajdah: ‘When my Lord will ask me that were you not ashamed of disobeying Me? You used to hide sins from people but now, you are present in My court with the piles of sins! When He would inflict His wrath upon me and abandon me from His merciful court, then what answer will I give?’

Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا asked him: ‘O brother! How was the night?’ He said: ‘It was good. I stood in the court of Allah Almighty with humility and he reformed my mischief. He accepted my excuse. He forgave my sins and made me reach what I desired for.’

Then that person left with the signs of anxiousness on his face. Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا raised her hands towards the sky and humbly said: ‘O Gracious Lord! This person stood in Your court once and You accepted him. Whereas, I have been standing in Your court for a long time.

Have You accepted me too?’ Suddenly, she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا heard the following from the ears of heart: ‘O Rabi’ah! We accepted him because of you and it was because of you that We blessed him with Our closeness.’ (Al Rauz-ul-Faaiq, pp. 159; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that how beautiful the worship Salah is that one thief comes with the intention of robbery and stands for Salah upon the instructions of a pious servant of Allah Almighty, Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا . He was lost in the sweetness of Salah so much that he remained engaged in offering Salah the whole night and came on the right path in the morning by repenting from his sins.

Unfortunately! There are a number of such people as well in our society who despite offering Salah cannot refrain from ‘Haraam and impermissible acts. Why is it so?

Dear Islamic sisters! It is possible that we don’t take care of the apparent and Baatini [inner] Sunnahs and manners of Salah properly which has kept us deprived of the blessings of Salah up to now. If we performed Wudhu properly and offered Salah with humility and self-mortification while abiding by all the apparent and Baatini Sunnahs and etiquette, then blessings of Salah would have been apparent upon us as well. Alas! A great number of Muslims do not offer Salah at all. Moreover, those who do offer, a lot of them do not know the basic rulings of Salah. Due to it, they make mistakes in their Salah which invalidates their Salah.

Therefore, along with making a firm intention of punctually offering Salah, we shall also pay full attention towards offering our Salah correctly so that our Salahs can be secured from being wasted. In order to save your Salah from mistakes, to learn the correct method of offering it and to learn the important rulings of Salah, read the book “Salah for Islamic Sisters” written by Shaikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ .

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home

1. When leaving the home recite this Du’a:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَوَکَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُوَّۃَ اِلَّا بِا للّٰہِ In the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is no power or might except from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the blessings of reciting this Du’a, you will stay on the right path, you will be protected from calamities, and you will get the help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. The Du’a for entering the home is:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِنِّیْۤ اَسْأَ لُكَ خَیْرَ الْمَوْلَجِ وَ خَیْرَ الْمَخْرَ جِ

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ لَجْنَا وَ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ خَرَجْنَا وَ عَلَی اللّٰہِ رَبِّنَا تَوَکَّلْنَا

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I ask for the goodness of entering and exiting, we enter (the home) in the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and exit the home in the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we trust in our Rab, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan Abi Dawood, pp. 420, vol. 4, Hadees 5096)

After reciting this Du’a, say Salam to your household, then present your Salam to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and then recite Surah Al-Ikhlas. There

will be blessings in your sustenance and you will remain safe from domestic disputes, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. If you enter a vacant house (even if it is your own home) then say:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْنَا وَ عَلٰی عِبَادِ اللّٰہِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ

Salam be upon us and upon the righteous bondmen of Allah.

The angels will reply to this Salam . (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 682)

Or say the following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ

O’ Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Salam be upon you.

As the sacred and blessed soul of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is present in the homes of the Muslims. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 96; Sharh-ush-Shifa lil-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 118)

4. When you want to enter someone’s home say this, ‘ ﴿اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ﴾ May I come in?’ If permission is not granted to enter the house, return happily, perhaps the resident of the house has refused due to some compulsion.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Announcements

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The system of the world goes well by virtue of presenting the call towards righteousness and forbidding [people] to commit evil acts. If it is stopped, then disturbance will occur. People will continue to do good as long as they perform virtuous deeds and call people towards righteousness, and refrain from evils and forbid from them (evils). (Nayki ki Da'wat, pp. 16) اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Islamic sisters go for Madani Daura (visit) on every _________ from _______ at ____________. You are also requested to make a firm intention to attend Madani Daura. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The Holy Quran, which is the Kalam of Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on which Islamic teachings are based, is such a Kalam recitation of which is not only worship, but beholding it is also worship. Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! ‘Faizan-e-Tilawat Course’ will start from the 1 st of Ramadan, at _________ from __________ to ___________. So let’s make intention that we will not only attend this course ourselves, but we will also persuade others to do so. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salma رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If a woman offers Salah in her room, it is better for her than to offer Salah in the verandah of her home and if she offers Salah in the verandah, it is better for her than to offer Salah in the courtyard and if she offers Salah in the courtyard, it is better for her than to offer Salah outside the home. (jannat mayn lay jaanay walay a'maal, pp. 102)

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! One of our Madani In'amaat is to offer Salah in Masjid-e-Bayt. If you fix any place in your home to offer Salah, then this specific place will become your Masjid-e-Bayt. So let’s make intention to offer Salah of Tasbih and Taraweeh, etc., in Masjid-e-Bayt at our homes. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ All the responsible Islamic sisters should make this intention: We must attend Weekly Madani Daurah in order to attain the blessings of the month of Ramadan.

All the Islamic sisters should also make the following intention: ‘We will attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly’ because if we attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly, we will learn

good things. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in approximately 107 departments at home and abroad. Let’s make up our mind to spend money on preventing sins and spreading Islam.

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima for Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters take place at thousands of places, wherein hundreds of thousands Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters gain the Islamic knowledge

by attending them. Only in Pakistan, 529 weekly Ijtimas for Islamic brothers whereas, 6501 for Islamic sisters are being conducted.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty then this (Sadaqah) becomes a veil between him and the fire’

Please give your Madani donations (charity) to Dawat-e-Islami to cover the expenses of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami'a-tul-Madinah and other departments being run by Dawat-e-Islami within the country and overseas and attain Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward).

Please make intention that I will give all my Wajibah and Naafilah Sadaqahs (Zakat, Sadaqah, Charity etc.) to the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah Almighty enable us to act accordingly.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

All Islamic sisters are requested that the pamphlet “Horrific Grave scene of the one indulging in sins during Ramadan” published by Maktaba tul Madinah may kindly be purchased in the maximum quantity or minimum 12 or as much as one can afford and distribute them and also affix them at prominent places in their homes. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the mindset of refraining from sins would be developed by its blessing.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaikh-e-Tareeqat Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat conducts Madani Muzakarah daily in the blessed month of Ramadan after Asr and Taraweeh Salahs. It is telecast live on Madani Channel. All Islamic sisters are requested to attend these 2 daily Madani Muzakarahs and also persuade other family members accordingly. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ countless Madani pearls of knowledge and wisdom would be obtained.

