Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Good Treatment with Siblings

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنۡ صَلّٰي عَلَيَّ مِائَةً كَتَبَ اللّٰهُ بَيۡنَ عَيۡنَيۡهِ بَرَاءَ ةً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَائَ ةً مِّنَ النَّا ر ’ The one who sends 100 Salat to me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between his two eyes that this person is free from hypocrisy and hellfire ‘ وَاَسۡكَنَهُ اللّٰهُ يَوۡمَ الۡقِيَامَ ةِ مَعَ الشُّهَ دَاء ِ ’ and on the Day of Judgement, he will be kept with martyrs.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, pp. 252, vol. 5, Hadees 7235)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​

The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Hasanayn-e-Karimayn’s love with each other

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: It is not permissible for any Muslim to break off relations with his brother for more than three days and nights. The one amongst them who starts conversation first, will also take the lead in going towards Paradise. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: It came to my knowledge that there is some disagreement between blessed Hasanayn-e-Karimayn (Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم). I went to Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and humbly said: People follow you and you blessed personages are displeased with each other and have broken off relations i.e., stopped talking to each other. Go to Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ right now and please him because you are younger to him. Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: If I had not heard from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that when two people break off relations with each other, so the one who takes the lead in talking will go to Paradise first, I would have certainly taken the lead in meeting, but I do not like to enter Paradise before him.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: After this I went to Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and related the whole event to him. Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: Whatever Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said is true. He (Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah) رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then went to Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and met him. In this way, both brothers got reconciled. (Zakhair-ul-‘Uqba, pp. 238)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the abovementioned parable it has become obvious that Hasanayn-e-Karimayn would love each other very much.

They even had this desire that one brother should not be left behind the other one in virtuous deed. It has also become obvious that it is not permissible for a Muslimah to break off relations with her Muslimah sister for

more than three days and nights, but unfortunately, nowadays brothers and sisters get annoyed with each other on a trivial matter; they even do not want to see faces of each other; due to a petty quarrel the whole family breaks up. Sometimes this quarrel grows to such an extent that massacre begins though the one who without any reason breaks off relations with her Muslimah sister, severe punishments have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees for her.

Deprived of forgiveness

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The deeds of people are presented to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on Monday and Thursday, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives everyone except those who bear enmity towards one another and break off relations [with relatives]. (Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 1, pp. 167, Hadees 309)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who breaks off relations will not enter Paradise. (Muslim, pp. 1062, Hadees 6520)

From the abovementioned blessed Ahadees the people should learn an admonitory lesson who break off relations on a trivial matter with their sisters, daughters, paternal aunts, maternal aunts, paternal nephews, maternal nephews, etc. If any one of us is displeased with any of her relatives or siblings, she should make reconciliation with them even though they have made the mistake. Be first in making reconciliation and meet them cheerfully and improve your relations. If you have to take the lead even in making an apology, do it for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You will attain eminence. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: مَنْ تَوَاضَعَ لِلّٰہِ رَفَعَہُ اللّٰہ The one who becomes humble for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows eminence upon him. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 276, Hadees 8140)

So always have good relationship with your siblings and relatives. Treat them well because it brings only benefits.

Respect for elder brother

Dear Islamic sisters! Our beautiful religion Islam has taught us respect for our elders. Amongst our elders the status and rank of our elder brother is worthy of respect. Allah Almighty bestows the heart of the elder brother with the affection and love like father for younger siblings. In the presence of father, the elder brother takes care of younger [siblings], fulfils their needs. If the father dies, he [elder brother] also fulfils his responsibilities properly afterwards. These favours of elder brother demand that younger siblings should revere him, respect him, give him the status and rank that he deserves. In the absence of parents, they should give him the status of their parents; otherwise they must consider him as their guardian. Younger siblings should not do backbiting and tale-telling against him, and should avoid quarrelling and having bad assumption about him. They should fulfil his permissible desires and obey his orders as far as possible. They should always maintain good relations with their elder brother and if he ever gets displeased with them, they themselves should come forward and apologize to him and try their best to reconcile with him.

Treat elder brother well

Sayyiduna Jareer bin Hazim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I saw a dream that my head was in my hands. In order to know its interpretation I related my dream to a famous Tabai pious person Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad bin Sireen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه (who was very expert in telling the interpretations of dreams). He asked me if any of my parents was alive. I replied in the negative. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked me if I had any elder brother. I replied in the affirmative. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Keep fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this matter; behave well towards him [your elder brother] and refrain from breaking off relations [with him]. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 210, Hadees 7928)

Dear Islamic sisters! An elder brother should not make this mind either that only young ones should respect him even if he becomes strict with them. Remember! Islam has mentioned the rights and manners of everyone; it not only enjoins young ones to respect their elders, but it also enjoins elders to behave towards their youngers lovingly and affectionately, to take care of

their needs and to give them good Tarbiyyat. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

لَیْسَ مِنَّامَنْ لَّمْ یَرْحَمْ صَغِیْرَنَاوَیُوَ قِّرْ کَبِیْرَنَاوَیَعْرِفْ لَنَا حَقَّنَا

The one who does not show mercy to our younger ones, does not respect our elders and does not know the right of a Muslim is not from us.

(Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 355, Hadees 12276)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said to Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: Respect the elders, show mercy to the youngers I and you will come like this on the Judgment Day. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his [blessed] fingers together. (Al-Matalib-ul-‘Aaliya, vol. 7, pp. 570, Hadees 3143)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded us to behave affectionately towards younger siblings and respect elder siblings, but unfortunately at present the way we are getting away from righteous deeds, we are not treating our siblings kindly, fulfilling their needs, helping them in their ups and downs of life and taking care of their needs. There are some such unfortunate people who part from their siblings as their parents pass away and do not inquire after them for many months. At present, the treatment which is given especially to sisters is not hidden from anyone. الامان والحفیظ Let’s listen to an admonitory parable of the one who did not treat his sister kindly and became heedless of her rights and tremble with the Divine fear.

Well named Barhoot!

It has been narrated that a rich man intended to perform Haj. He entrusted 1000 dinars to another rich man until his return from Arfah. When he returned he found him dead. He asked his children about his money, but they had no idea of it. So he asked for the solution to this problem from the Islamic scholars of Makkah Mukarramah, they replied: At midnight, go to Zamzam well and look into it and then call out the deceased person by his

name. If he is amongst the blessed inhabitants, he will reply when you call him out first time. He went and called out in it, but no one gave him a reply. He returned and told the Islamic scholars about it. They recited اِنَّا لِلہِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیۡہِ رٰجِعُوۡن and said: We are afraid that your friend will be amongst the Hell dwellers. Now you go to Yemen where there is a well Barhoot. It is narrated that it [this well] is at the mouth of Hell. Go there at night and call out: O so-and-so! He will reply to your call. He went to Yemen and asked people about the well so he was guided to the well. He went there at night and called out: O so-and-so! Hence his friend replied to his call. He asked: Where are my dinars? He replied: I buried them at such-and-such place at my home and I did not inform my children about them. Go to them; when you dig a pit there you will get your money. He then asked: What has brought you here though I had good opinion of you? He replied: I had a poor sister whom I had left and I did not treat her kindly. Allah Almighty has punished me for this reason and got me in this state. (Tanbeeh-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 72)

Dear Islamic sisters! You must have noticed how the one who broke off relations with his sister and did not treat her kindly was made to suffer a severe torment in the abovementioned parable because the one who breaks off relations will not enter Paradise. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who breaks off relations will not enter Paradise.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1062, Hadees 6520)

Remember! Good manners are extremely necessary for the survival of a strong and happy family. The best way of it is that parents should not become negligent even a bit in the upbringing of their children from their childhood and give them such Madani Tarbiyyat regarding good manners, sociability, affection and love with one another that everyone praises their children by saying that they are very well-mannered because they say Salam and shake hands with everyone, talk smilingly and get ready happily for every task. Remember! Children follow the upbringing and footsteps of their parents. If parents do not meet their siblings and relatives, do not treat them kindly, do not go to their [siblings’] homes for many months, so their children will not live with their siblings with unity either. Therefore parents should treat their siblings and relatives kindly, should be present in their joys and

sorrows so that seeing their parents their children also live with their siblings together. In this way, the possibility of a happy family getting indulged in any discord and quarrel will be ruled out.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Our pious predecessors would treat their siblings kindly, would be very soft and loving to them and would take care of their needs. If someone would try to break their love, they would make their satanic attacks unsuccessful and give such a reply to him that he would return disappointed.

Telltale fell quiet

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would love very much his younger brother Maulana Muhammad Raza Khan. Once Maulana Muhammad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made gold bracelets for his wife. A telltale mentioned it to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, so giving a very beautiful reply A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: If [my brother] Maulana Muhammad Raza has got these bracelets made with his wealth [money], I will be pleased that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed so much wealth upon my brother and if he has got them made with my wealth [money], I will be more pleased because my brother considers my wealth to be his own wealth. Having heard this that telltale returned unsuccessful and disappointed. (A’la Hadrat kay pasandidah Waqia’at, pp. 35)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the abovementioned parable not only have we understood A’la Hadrat’s manner of loving his brother, we have also understood that it is a very bad deed to have different types of bad opinions for siblings, to disrespect them, to quarrel with them and to disclose their faults to people by being deceived by someone else. Unfortunately, nowadays in our conversation backbiting and tale-telling are becoming very common. Unending act of backbiting and tale-telling against the third one begins where two people sit together. If we have a chance to talk to someone even for a few minutes no matter whether in the gathering of friends or the gathering after a religious Ijtima, in the wedding ceremony or on the occasion of condolence, meeting with someone or talking to someone on phone, so if a sensitive person having Islamic knowledge investigates the conversation,

perhaps she may prove examples of dozens of tale-telling along with sinful words in many of our Majalis. At present, tale-telling is one of the reasons that cause hatred and mischief between two sisters, quarrels and massacre in the family. A telltale is a thief of love. A telltale is the enemy of wisdom. A telltale brings about hatred. A telltale is a satanic machine that causes quarrels. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasoool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about tale-telling:

§ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Amongst you the most disliked people are the telltales who create discord between friends and find faults with righteous people. (Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 48, Raqm 16668)

§ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Backbiting and tale-telling cut off faith in such a way as a shepherd cuts a tree. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 405, Hadees 4362)

§ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: لَا یَدْخُلُ الجَنَّۃَ قتات i.e. A telltale will not enter Paradise. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 115, Hadees 6056)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed that fire will blaze in the grave of a telltale! A telltale is included in the disobedience of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Tale-telling brings about destruction of faith. A telltale will not enter Paradise. Therefore we should not tell tales about anyone else, and nor should we form any opinion about the other party after listening to one side only. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to stay safe from the evils of tale-telling! Aameen!

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Habeel and Qabeel both are the sons of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . It is narrated that the first murderer on the earth is Qabeel and the first person who was murdered is Habeel. The incident of both is as follows: One baby boy and one baby girl used to be born with every pregnancy of Sayyidatuna Hawwa رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . The boy of one pregnancy used to be married with the girl of the other pregnancy. According to this common practice, Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام wanted to perform the Nikah of the girl named Akleema, who

was born with Qabeel, with his another son Habeel, but Qabeel did not agree to it because Aqleema was more beautiful and hence he wanted her. Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made him understand a lot by saying that Aqleema was born with him and that’s why she was her sister and he could not do Nikah with her, but he did not listen to him. Finally, Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ordered: Both of you present your sacrifices in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The one whose sacrifice is accepted will deserve Aqleema. In that age, the sign of the sacrifice being accepted was that a fire would come from the sky and eat the sacrifice that would be accepted in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Qabeel presented some ears of wheat and Sayyiduna Habeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented a goat for sacrifice. Fire from the sky ate the sacrifice of Sayyiduna Habeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and left the wheat of Qabeel. Due to this Qabeel developed malice and jealousy and decided to kill Sayyiduna Habeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said to Habeel: I will kill you. It is Allah Almighty’s Will to accept the sacrifice, replied Sayyiduna Habeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts the sacrifice of those who are pious and sincere. If you had been pious, your sacrifice must have been accepted. (Aja’ib-ul-Quran Ma’ Ghara’ib-ul-Quran, pp. 85-86, Siraat-ul-Jinnan, vol. 2, pp. 416, Taht-al-Ayah 27)

Dear Islamic sisters! Qabeel was instigated by worldly love, malice and jealousy to murder his brother and he murdered his brother. Today even in our society, a brother feels jealous of his brother by seeing his scholarly competence, excellent mental ability, plenty of wealth, respect and nobility, excellent job and his dignity and due to this jealousy he tries to harm his own brother and makes Du’as that these blessings be taken back from him. Remember! Feeling jealous is Haraam and an act leading to Hell.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: اَلْحَسَدُ یَاْکُلُ الْحَسَنَاتِ کَمَا تَاْکُلُ النَّارُ الْحَطَبَ Jealousy eats virtue as fire eats dry pieces of wood. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 472, Hadees 4210) Talking about the method of maintaining brotherhood in another blessed Hadees the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Do not feel jealous of each other; do not have malice and enmity towards each other; do not speak ill of each other in the absence of each other and O the bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Live like brothers. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 117, Hadees 2022)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Having bad assumption, jealousy, malice, etc., are the things which end love and Islamic brotherhood wants love, therefore give up these faults so that you become brothers to one another. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 608) It has become obvious that jealousy is such a bad deed due to which not only our righteous deeds go to waste, but rather love and brotherhood among Muslims end and malice and enmity get bred in their hearts. So repent of the sin of jealousy today and instead of feeling jealous by seeing the happiness and delight of your siblings make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the increase in their blessings.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Give children equal treatment

Dear Islamic sisters! Parents’ role is also very important in maintaining unity amongst siblings. They should give their children equal treatment; they should adopt the principle of equality in giving them something or treating them with affection and love. They should not prefer one child to the other by ignoring her without any Shar’i reason as it breeds malice and jealousy in them from their childhood which is extremely harmful to their personal development. By seeing this discriminatory treatment of parents with any one of the children other siblings feel inferiority complex and feeling inferiority complex sometimes they take such a step that proves to be extremely harmful to their life and their parents’ life.

Give Tarbiyyat in childhood

Dear Islamic sisters! Parents should give their children good upbringing. They should give them the mindset of having love for each other, protecting life, possession of each other and having respect for each other from their childhood, but unfortunately there are a large number of parents who keep waiting by thinking: Now our children are very young and hence let them do what they want. When they grow up a bit, we will give them moral Tarbiyyat. Parents should pay full attention to the upbringing of their children because the early years of the children’s life play a role of foundation for the rest of the life as a strong building can be built on strong foundations. Whatever a

child learns in her childhood remains throughout her life firmly in her mind because the mind of a child is like wax which can be fit into any mould. The memory of a child is like a blank Takhti (clay tablet) on which whatever is written will be safe for her entire life. The mind of a child is like an empty field in which whatever seed is sown, the crop of the same quality will be obtained. That’s why if children are taught the lesson of affection from their childhood, so affection for everyone will be developed in their hearts. If children are taught to take the lead in saying Salam right from their childhood, they do not give up this habit throughout their life. If their habit of speaking the truth is formed, they feel disgusted with lies throughout their life. If they are made habitual of eating, drinking, sitting, wearing shoes, wearing dresses and combing hair etc., as per Sunnah, so not only do they themselves continue to adopt these pure habits, but these Madani attributes also start transferring to other children who have their company.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Monthly Tarbiyyati Halqah, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! If we and our children want to become the ones who treat their siblings, relatives, neighbours and friends kindly, we should from today associate ourselves with the pure Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool and take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

One of the 8 Madani Activities of Zayli Halqah is “Monthly Tarbiyyati Halqah”. This Tarbiyyati Halqah is arranged on the Third Thursday of every month at area or city level (Duration: Maximum 2 hours). In this Tarbiyyati Halqah Ghusl, Wudu (ablution), Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as and Shar’i rulings related to Islamic sisters are taught as per method prescribed by the Madani Markaz. Furthermore, the invocations of Shajarah ‘Attariyyah are also being memorized. You are also requested to avail the privilege of attending these Tarbiyyati Halqahs and try to mould your life according to Sunnahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessings of attending Tarbiyyati Halqahs and reciting blessed Shajarah entails many blessings. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

Family quarrels got patched up

An Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) had lots of discord at home. The tension was building up day by day. They had quarrels quite often due to which there was no pleasant environment at home. Due to this situation, she was very worried. There was no way of creating a pleasant environment at home. In the meantime, she had the idea of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah from ‘Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah’. She started reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah with the intention to get rid of family discord. By virtue of the blessings of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah her family quarrels got patched up and a peaceful environment was created at her home.

مشکلیں حل کر شہِ مُشکل کُشا کے واسِطے

کر بَلائیں رَد شہیدِ کربَلا کے واسِطے

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahaar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Status of sister in Islam

Dear Islamic sisters! Islam has also highlighted the rights of sisters and given Dars to its followers to treat their real and milk sisters kindly because it is only sisters who put up with the airs of their brothers, fulfil their demands, support them in the moments of joy and sorrow and make Du’as for them. They do not let their brothers miss their mother after her death by accepting entire household responsibilities. In the age of ignorance, they were given extremely bad treatment. The greatest well-wisher of women, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who has 3 daughters or 3 sisters or 2 daughters or 2 sisters and he treats them well and keeps fearing Allah Almighty regarding them, will attain Paradise. (Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 367, Hadees 1923)

Sayyiduna Jabir bin Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا married a widow only for looking after his sisters, for braiding and plaiting their hair and for the sake of their good Tarbiyyat [upbringing]. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 3641)

Kind treatment with Razai sister

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also treat his Razai sisters (milk sisters) kindly and take care of their needs. His Razai sister Sayyiduna Sheema رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the daughter of Sayyidatuna Bibi Haleema Sadia رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . When people arrested her she said: I am the sister of your Nabi. Muslims brought her to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for her identification. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immediately recognized her and tears welled up in his blessed eyes out of love. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spread his blessed chador on the floor, sat her and gave her some camels and some goats and said: You are free. If you want, you can go to my home and live there and if you want to go to your home, I will arrange a conveyance that will take you there. She desired to go to her own home, so she was taken to her tribe with extreme respect and reverence. (Al-Muwahib-ul-Duniya ma’ Sharah-uz-Zarqani, vol. 3, pp. 533)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how affectionately and kindly the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم treated his Milk sister! The way he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would treat and hearten his blessed wives, Sahabiyaat and other female servants رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, in the same way, his bestowal and favours for his milk sister were also worth-seeing because when the Beloved Rasool’s milk sister Sheema رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would come to him, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would stand up out of pleasure upon her arrival, would hearten her and give her a lot. This sacred act of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم contains Madani pearls of advice for us as today many of us have siblings, but do we treat them with love? Are our brothers and sisters happy with us? Do we try to keep our sisters happy? Do we invite them to our get-togethers? Do we not violate their rights? Anyhow, following the Islamic teachings we should be affectionate and kind to our brothers and sisters and should associate ourselves with the environment in which we are always given great mindset of fulfilling the rights of relatives. Remember! Brothers and sisters are the remedy for each other’s troubles; they support each other in difficulties, but sometimes brothers and sisters or sisters get against each other and taunt each other and hurt each other’s feelings. However, when they suffer any

loss, they feel ashamed of what they did. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable about it.

Blind girl

Two real sisters settled the match of their children with each other. The girl had weak eyesight due to which she used to wear glasses. After some time disagreements between both the sisters occurred. The disagreements arose to such an extent that one sister started saying to the other one: I cannot marry my healthy son to your blind daughter. Having heard this, the other sister felt shocked because the one who found fault with her daughter was no one else but her real sister. Anyhow the one who taunted had gone after breaking off the match. When she reached home it came into her mind that iron pipes were kept on the compound and she wanted them to be shifted on the roof. She asked her son to shift them too. What happened was that, all of a sudden, an iron pipe slipped from her hand and hit straightaway the eye of her son due to which his eyeball came out. She appeared extremely shocked and the words which she said to her real sister started echoing in her mind: I cannot marry my healthy son to your blind daughter. She started feeling ashamed at her manner, but there was no gain because her son had lost his eye. (Jaysi Karni Waysi Bharni, pp. 47)

Dear Islamic sisters! The above-mentioned parable contains admonitory Madani pearls for us. When one sister utters harsh sentences to the other one hurting her feelings, so according to the saying ‘as you sow so shall you reap’ her son also lost his eye and he also became blind by one eye. Remember! Hurting someone’s feelings is a grave sin and an act leading to Hell, but unfortunately, nowadays, people have become fearless. Hurting Muslims’ feelings without any reason and causing them trouble in different ways are becoming a common practice, however, those who hurt others’ feelings displease Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Those who hurt others’ feelings are not respected in the society; those who hurt others’ feelings will suffer painful torments.

Frightening itch

Sayyiduna Yazeed bin Shajarah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The way the sea has its corners, similarly, Hell also has its corners which have snakes like Bukhti

camels and scorpions like mules. When inhabitants of Hell will make a request to reduce their torment, they will be commanded to get out from the corners, so as they will get out from the corners, the snakes will hold them from their lips and faces and will even remove their skin. They will run towards the fire in order to escape the place. Then itch will be inflicted on them. They will itch so much that their flesh and skin will get removed and only bones will remain there. It will be called out: O so-and-so! Are you feeling pain? ‘Yes’, he will reply. It will be said: It is for the trouble that you used to inflict on believers. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 280, Hadees 5649)

Dear Islamic sisters! Tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and torment of Hell! If you have ever hurt anyone’s feelings without any Shar’i reason, repent without any hesitation whatever close relation you have with her whether you are her elder sister or elder brother, mother or mother-in-law no matter how high rank you have or how wealthy you are and make reconciliation with him after apologizing to him. Otherwise, no one will bear the terrible and frightful torment of the Hell.

Remember! The way hurting a Muslim’s feelings is a very big sin; similarly, bringing pleasure to her is a very big virtuous deed and a privilege. Allah Almighty will make the one enter Paradise as well as bestow countless gifts and favours upon her who brings pleasure to a Muslim. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I saw a person going around in Paradise; wherever he wanted he went because in this world he cut down the tree from the way that would give trouble to people. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1082, Hadees 6671)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ continues to advise his disciples and well-wishers to try their best to never hurt any Muslims’ feelings and never to give them any trouble.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy protecting Muslims from sins and taking them to the virtuous path all over the world. It is busy

making efforts in presenting call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments in order to propagate this Madani activity further. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. The main aim of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing and to persuade them to act upon the Madani In’amaat. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May all the Islamic brothers and sisters act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate these Madani In’amaat in their Halqahs, areas, cities, villages, goths (small villages) so that every Muslim practises them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the greatest reward of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s all make intention that we will not only try to act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic sisters! Today we have listened the bayan on “Good treatment with Siblings” which included:

Brothers and sisters are the safe-guarders of each other’s dignity.

Due to the blessings of unity in siblings, the household remains prosperous.

The elder brother amongst siblings treats his younger siblings with affection and kindness.

The siblings should avoid quarrel themselves.

Breaking off relations with siblings results in deprivation of Divine blessings.

May Allah Almighty grant us the privilege to behave with affection and kindness with our siblings!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of wearing clothes

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls of clothes:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The veil between the eyes of the jinn and the Satr (parts of the body that must be concealed) of people is to recite بِسـۡمِ اللّٰه when anyone is about to take off his clothes.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 59, Hadees 2504)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti A h mad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘As a wall or a curtain serves as a barrier to the sight of people, this Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will serve as a barrier to the sight of jinns, preventing them from seeing a person’s private parts.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 268)

Despite having the means to wear good clothing, if a person avoids them due to humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the attire of Karamah [a heavenly dress].’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 4778)

