Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Outstanding hospitality . 4

Name, title and Kunyah (filial appellation) . 5

I can leave the world but not faith . 5

Signs of devotion to Rasool 8

Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani’s obedience to Rasool 8

Acted upon saying of Beloved Rasool even in severe winter . 9

Na’at of Beloved Rasool recited by ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan .. 11

Praising Beloved Rasool in his blessed court 12

Devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar . 12

Devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt of Rasoolullah . 13

How shall I perform Tawaf without Rasoolullah? . 15

VCD Ijtima—one of the 12 Madani activities . 17

Horror of the Siraat bridge (Madani parable) . 18

Education Department 19

Strange manner of attaining pleasure of Rasool! 20

Introduction to the book ‘Sahabah Kiraam ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool’ 21

Showing devotion to the Holy Quran .. 21

Quran will intercede . 23

Heavenly bridegroom ... 24

Few glimpses of blessed life . 25

Education and upbringing . 25

Blessed demise . 25

Summary of Speech . 26

Madani pearls about drinking water . 27

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 29

2. All sins forgiven .. 29

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 30

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 30

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 30

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 31

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 31

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 31

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani’s Devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid .

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends ten blessings upon him. And whoever recites Salat upon me ten times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends 100 blessings upon him and whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and the hellfire; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 2735)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم lived their lives full of devotion to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and expressed their love and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is incomparable. With their character and deeds these people have taught Muslims as to how a follower should express devotion to his Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The third caliph, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, is one of the personages who showed intense devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His blessed life reflects the love and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The main aim of every deed of his was to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani’s parables of devotion to Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to illuminate our hearts with devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Outstanding hospitality

One day Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Please come to my home with your friends and have what is available. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم accepted the invitation. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم set off for the home of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ along with his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ walked behind him and began to count each of his footstep. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘O Usman! Why are you counting my footsteps?’ Sayyiduna U s man-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly stated, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my mother and father be sacrificed for you! I would like to free one slave out of reverence and veneration for each step you take.’ Thus Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ freed as many slaves as the number of footsteps the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took to his home. (Jami’-ul-Mu’jizat, pp. 257)

مجھ کو دُنیا کی دولت نہ زر چاہئے

شاہِ کوثر کی میٹھی نظر چاہئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ freed one slave for each step of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out of devotion to him! Surely he is the personage whose blessings are spread all over the world. His heart was so much illuminated with the devotion to Rasool that he did not like any other thing but the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to the brief introduction of his blessed life.

Name, title and Kunyah (filial appellation)

His name is ‘Usman’ and the Kunyah is ‘Abu ‘Amr’, whereas his titles ‘Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen’, ‘Zun-Nurayn’ (i.e. a possessor of two Noors), ‘ کامِلُ الْحَیاءِ وَ الۡاِیۡمان ’ (perfect in modesty and faith) ‘ جامِعُ القرآن ’ [Jami’-ul-Quran], Sayyid-ul-Askhiya, ‘Usman-e-Ba-Haya, etc. are famous. (Karamaat-e-‘Usman-e-Ghani, pp. 3, 11, 5)

But amongst all the titles of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ, ‘Zun-Nurayn’ is very famous, because the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave two of his beloved daughters in his Nikah (marriage) one after the other. Pointing towards it A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

نُور کی سرکار سے پایا دوشالہ نُور کا ہو مُبارَک تم کو ذُوالنُّورَین جوڑا نُور کا ]

I can leave the world but not faith

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ اِنِّيْ لَرَابِعُ اَرْبَعَةٍ فِي الْاِسْلَامِ ’ i.e. I am the fourth amongst four personages who embraced Islam. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 1, pp. 85)

When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam he was not only strongly opposed by his family members, but also by all of his relatives. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was beaten and even his uncle Hakam Bin Abil ‘Aas was so angry with him that he tied him with a rope and said: You have abandoned the religion of your father and grandfather and embraced any other religion. We will not free you until you abandoned the new religion. We will continue to keep you tied like this. Having heard this, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!

I will never abandon Islam, nor can I ever give up this wealth (blessing of Islam). It is not possible at all to remove the religion of Islam from my heart. When Hakam Bin Abil ‘Aas noticed this passion of his, he became impelled and freed him. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 39, pp. 26)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to get ready to sacrifice his life, possessions and wealth all in devotion to Rasool because devotion to Rasool is the base of Islam. Therefore we should have true love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should have the devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than our desires, family, wealth even more than our own children because it is devotion to them that will lead to success in the world and the Hereafter both. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 24 of Surah At-Taubah, part 10:

قُلْ اِنْ كَانَ اٰبَآؤُكُمْ وَ اَبْنَآؤُكُمْ وَ اِخْوَانُكُمْ وَ اَزْوَاجُكُمْ وَ عَشِیْرَتُكُمْ وَ عَشِیْرَتُكُمْ وَ اَمْوَالُ اﰳقْتَرَفْتُمُوْهَا وَ تِجَارَةٌ تَخْشَوْنَ كَسَادَهَا وَ مَسٰكِنُ تَرْضَوْنَهَاۤ اَحَبَّ اِلَیْكُمْ مِّنَ اللّٰهِ وَ رَسُوْلِهٖ وَ جِهَادٍ فِیْ سَبِیْلِهٖ فَتَرَبَّصُوْا حَتّٰى یَاْتِیَ اللّٰهُ بِاَمْرِهٖؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ لَا یَهْدِی الْقَوْمَ الْفٰسِقِیْنَ۠(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say O beloved, ‘If your fathers, and your sons, and your brothers, and your wives, and your family, and your acquired wealth, and the trade in which you fear a loss, and the houses of your liking, all these are dearer to you than Allah and His Rasool and fighting in His way, then wait until Allah brings about His command; and Allah does not guide the sinful ones.

Allamah Qadi ‘Iyaad [ عیاض ] Maliki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This Ayah persuades us that the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is necessary and obligatory. It has been greatly emphasized and evidenced accordingly. A

warning has been given by this part of blessed Ayah ‘ فَتَرَ بَّصُوۡا حَتّٰی یَاۡتِیَ اللّٰہُ بِاَمۡـرِہٖ ’ (then wait until Allah brings about His command) and that person is frightened who loves his wealth, wife and children more than Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Further, at the end of the Ayah, such people have been informed that they are amongst the misguided people and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not guide them. (Ash-Shifa, pp. 18)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: From this blessed Ayah it has been understood that the person who considers any honourable person, relative and friend, any possession or anything dearer than the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is rejected in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not guide him. Such a person should await the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 309-310)

Because the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has himself stated: No one amongst you can become a perfect believer until he loves me more than his mother, father, offspring and all the people. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 17, Hadees 15)

جانِ ايماں ہے مَحَبَّت تری جانِ جاناں جس کے دل میں یہ نہیں خاک مسلماں ہوگا

دردِ فُرقت کا مداوا نہ ہوا اور نہ ہو کيا طبیبوں سے مرے درد کا دَرماں ہوگا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم brings about the completion of faith for a Muslim. Our faith will be complete when only we consider the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be dearer than our family, friends, relatives, life and wealth. Remember! Islamic scholars have mentioned abundant signs of devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to some signs out of them.

Signs of devotion to Rasool

1. To obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in sayings and actions, that is, to perform the act which the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded us to do and to refrain from the act from which he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us and to act upon the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was an ardent devotee of Rasool, or rather the practical embodiment of the devotion to Rasool. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would adopt the Sunnah and acts of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم very much in his sayings and actions without caring even about hot and cold weather. Let’s listen to three parables of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani’s devotion to the sayings and Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani’s obedience to Rasool

One day sitting at the door of a Masjid, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sent for the meat of mutton (front) leg piece and ate and offered Salah without making fresh Wudu. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also ate the same sitting at the same place and did in the same way. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 1, pp. 137, Hadees 441)

While making Wudu once Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ smiled! When people asked him the reason, he said: Once I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiling at the same place after making Wudu.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 1, pp. 130, Hadees 415)

وُضو کر کے خَنداں ہوئے شاہِ عثماں کہا: کیوں تَبسُّم بھلا کررہا ہوں؟

جوابِ سُوالِ مُخاطَب دیا پھر کسی کی ادا کو ادا کر رہا ہوں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Acted upon saying of Beloved Rasool even in severe winter

When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ intended to offer Salah in a cold winter night, he asked his slave Humraan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for water for Wudu. The slave brought him water so he started washing his hands and mouth with it. (As he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started his Wudu) the slave humbly said: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect you! You are making Wudu, whereas the night is very cold. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated in reply: I have heard from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: The person who makes proper Wudu, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his past and future sins.

(Musnad Al-Bazzaar, vol. 2, pp. 75, Hadees 422)

تیری سُنّتوں پہ چل کر، میری رُوح جب نکل کر

چلے تم گلے لگانا مدنی مدینے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The sentence consisting of love and devotion Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated after making Wudu in very cold winter, it contains countless Madani pearls for us. The true love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم demands from us that our first preference should be to act upon Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also set the foundation of His love in the obedience to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If you claim to love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you have to obey His Beloved. It is stated in Ayah 31 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 3:

قُلْ اِنْ كُنْتُمْ تُحِبُّوْنَ اللّٰهَ فَاتَّبِعُوْنِیْ یُحْبِبْكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَ یَغْفِرْ لَكُمْ ذُنُوْبَكُمْؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ غَفُوْرٌ رَّحِیْمٌ(۳۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say O Beloved Rasool, ‘O people! If you love Allah, you should obey me, (only then) Allah will love you and forgive you your sins’; and Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful.

From this blessed Ayah it has been understood that the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the evidence of love to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and salvation depends on it. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has connected the attainment of Paradise, His pleasure and His closeness to the obedience of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Now if somebody attains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and closeness to Him, he will attain them by following the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, otherwise even if the deeds of the entire world are brought together, they will totally be rejected in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ unless they have obedience and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 461)

We should act upon the commandments of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter and should refrain from the acts which are forbidden because the claim of having devotion will be proved truthful when we live our life in obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Surely the blessed life of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best role model for us. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated it Himself in the Holy Quran, Ayah 21 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 21:

لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِیْ رَسُوْلِ اللّٰهِ اُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed you have an excellent model in the following of the Rasool of Allah.

Regarding this blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم well. Help Divine religion and do not leave the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Follow the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is better. (Taht-al-Ayah: 21)

تِرے خُلق کو حَق نے عظیم کہا تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہوا ہے نہ ہوگا شہا ترے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! At present, if we ponder over our condition, we will find that not only are we heedless of Sunnah, but majority of Muslims مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ are also negligent in offering even Fard (obligatory) acts, though it is the requirement of devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that a bondman should not stop following the Sunnah of his beloved and should never adopt the manners of others. Let’s make intention together that we will act upon the Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we will not become negligent in offering Salah and observing Siyam, we will not get our beard cut and will wear dress as per Sunnah, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Na’at of Beloved Rasool recited by ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan

Another sign of love is that the person who loves someone, talks abundantly about him. He also praises the great qualities of his beloved. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also praised his Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in prose as well as in the form of poetry. Let’s listen to the translation of the two couplets.

رَسُوْلٌ عَظِیْمُ الشَّانِ یَتْلُوْ کِتَابَہُ لَہُ کُلُّ مَنْ یَّبْغِیْ التِّلاَوَۃِوَامِقٌ

مُحَبُّ عَلَیْہِ کُلَّ یَوْمٍ طلاوۃٌ وَاِنْ قَالَ قَوْلًا فَالَّذِیْ قَالَ صَادِق

Translation: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has such a great status that when the people [who oppose the recitation of the Holy Quran] listen to his blessed recitation, they become lover of it (the Holy Quran). The Glorified

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for whom freshness and beauty is evident every day. Whatever he speaks becomes true. (Seerat Ibn Ishaaq, pp. 180)

Praising Beloved Rasool in his blessed court

Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has also stated the glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this way:

اِنَّ اللہَ مَا اَوقَع ظِلَّکَ عَلَی الَاَرضِ لِئَلَّا یَضَعَ اِنسَانٌ قَدَمَہُ عَلَی ذٰلک الظّلِّ

i.e. Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ did not let your shadow fall on the ground so that no one could step on it.

(Tafseer Nasafi, vol. 18, pp. 772)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to praise the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, following the companions’ way, with sincerity and reverence. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to become the one who recites Na’at and listens to Na’at and protect us and our generations from those who try to find fault with the glory and greatness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to die as a devotee of Rasool who mentions his glory and greatness!

Devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar

Another sign of having devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that the true devotee loves those whom the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loves. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had great love for his Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar (blessed family). It can be judged from the following blessed Hadees.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: No bondman can become a perfect believer until I become more beloved to him than his own life, and my offspring become more beloved to him than his own offspring, and I become more beloved to him than his own self and my family becomes more beloved to him than his own family. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 189, Hadees 1505)

اِیماں جسے کہتے ہیں عقیدے میں ہمارے

وہ تیری محبت تِری عِترَت کی وِلا ہے

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had extremely great love for the relatives and Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would present his money and wealth to them.

Devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt of Rasoolullah

Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that once the family of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not eat anything for four days, even children started feeling uneasy. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came and said: Did you find anything after me? I humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not bring through your blessed hands so how can we get? Having heard this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made Wudu and went to the Masjid. Sometimes he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah at one place and made Du’a and sometimes offered Salah at another place and made Du’a.

In the last part of the day, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came and asked permission to come in. I wanted to hide this matter of ours from him, then I thought that he is one of the wealthiest Muslims. Perhaps Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent him to help Ahl-e-Bayt. When I gave him permission he came in and said: Dear mother! Where is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? I stated the whole condition. Having heard this, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started weeping and said: May the world be destroyed! O Umm-ul-Mu’mineen! Why didn’t you inform me, ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Awf, Saabit Bin Qays and other wealthy Muslims of this condition? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then went out and sent bags of flour, wheat and dates, one skin-removed goat and a bag containing 300 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: I have sent all these things in a hurry. Later on he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ brought loaves of bread and roasted meat and said: Please have them and also keep for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and then making me swear under oath, said: Must inform me now onwards whenever such a condition occurs.

After sometime the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also came and asked: O ‘Aaishah! Did you find anything after me? I humbly said: Yes, Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I knew it that you went out to make Du’a in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and I also knew it that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would not reject your Du’a. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: What did you get? So much flour, wheat, dates, a skin-removed goat, a bag of 300 dirhams, loaves of bread and roasted meat, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said humbly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: Who gave them? I humbly replied: ‘Usman (Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) brought them. He came himself. When I told him the whole condition he started weeping, expressed hatred of this world and made me swear that I must inform him of such a condition now onwards. Having heard this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not sit, but rather went to Masjid-e-Nabawi and made Du’a 3 times, like this by raising his blessed hands in Divine court for Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I am pleased with ‘Usman; You also become pleased with him.

(Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 39, pp. 53)

الله سے کیا پیار ہے عثمانِ غنی کا

محبوبِ خدا یار ہے عثمانِ غنی کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Whatever a person gets, he gets for the sake of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Everything of this universe receives the blessing of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had wanted, the mountains of gold would have accompanied him, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself preferred the Hereafter to the world and passed many days like this that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not (apparently) have anything to eat.

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would remain hungry for many nights in succession. His blessed family did not have anything in dinner. They would often eat bread made from barley.

(Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp.160, Raqm 2367)

Remember! The Faqr of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was elective and chosen by his esteemed self. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had to teach his Ummah not to become impatient on difficulties and troubles, even they (the Ummah) should not think about impatience and complaints, but rather they should further increase the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It has been understood from the blessed deed of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that despite having nothing to eat, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم got busy offering Nawafil and making Du’a. At present, if we ponder over our condition, we will find that we make complaints and bewail on small difficulties, though the people who endure troubles and have patience on trials in the world will be very prosperous on the Judgement Day.

زباں پر شِکوَۂ رنج و اَلم لایا نہیں کرتے

نبی کے نام لیوا غم سے گھبرایا نہیں کرتے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How shall I perform Tawaf without Rasoolullah?

When upon the advice of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sent Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to Quraysh in Makkah Mukarramah with the message of Treaty of Hudaybiyah, many blessed companions felt envy of the fact that Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had the privilege of going to Makkah Mukarramah and now he would have the view of sacred Baytullah and perform the Tawaf of Ka’bah. When blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly expressed their envious feelings to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I believe ‘Usman will not perform the Tawaf of

Ka’bah until we are surrounded. Blessed companions humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He does not have any obstacle regarding it, then what will prevent Usman-e-Ghani from the Tawaf of Ka’bah? In order to overcome this confusion of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I believe he will not perform the Tawaf of holy Ka’bah without us.

When Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم asked him: O Abu ‘Abdullah! You will be feeling relaxed after performing the Tawaf of Ka’bah? Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: You have made an inaccurate judgement about me, then the words he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, contain many Madani pearls for people like us who claim to have devotion to Rasool. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: By the One in Whose power my life is! If I had lived in Makkah Mukarramah even for the entire year, I would not have performed Tawaf without the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, whereas Quraysh did not obstruct me from the Tawaf of Ka’bah. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 4, pp. 133)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had such a great respect and reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and gave us the lesson that reverence for Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a must wherever we are in the world because showing respect to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a clear sign of devotion to Beloved and Blessed Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If a person loves someone so he respects his beloved and also expects others to do the same. This is about an ordinary beloved, whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not only the beloved of the universe, but also the beloved of the Creator of the universe, therefore Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has Himself commanded to show respect and reverence for him. In Ayah 9 of Surah Al-Fath part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

لِّتُؤْمِنُوْا بِاللّٰهِ وَ رَسُوْلِهٖ وَ تُعَزِّرُوْهُ وَ تُوَقِّرُوْهُؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So that, O people, you may believe in Allah and His Rasool, and honour and revere the Rasool.

Regarding this blessed Ayah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The most important is faith as without it the reverence for Rasool is not accepted; Reverence for Rasool is after it, as without it no Salah and worship is accepted. As all the people are the bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but the real bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the one who is the slave of Mustafa, otherwise he will be the slave of Satan. (Malfuzaat A’la Hazrat, pp. 234)

اُن کی تعظیم کرے گا نہ اگر وقتِ نماز

ماری جائے گی تیرے منہ پہ عبادت تیری

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

VCD Ijtima—one of the 12 Madani activities

If you also want to develop the passion for devotion to Rasool and acting upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and want to protect yourself from sins, so, in this critical age, associate yourself with the global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami and participate actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. ‘Attending VCD Ijtima’ is one of the 12 weekly Madani activities. By attending this Ijtima, a large number of Islamic brothers gain Islamic knowledge by listening or watching the Sunnah-inspiring speeches collectively. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ gaining Islamic knowledge collectively has lots of blessings. For persuasion, listen to a blessed Hadees and rejoice.

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you pass by the flower-beds of Paradise,

pick a lot from them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What are the flower-beds of Paradise? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Gatherings of knowledge.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 78, Hadees 11158)

For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable.

Horror of the Siraat bridge (Madani parable)

Like many other youths, I had also indulged in many immoral evils. Watching films and dramas and wasting time in useless activities were some of the favourite routines of mine. The holy month of Ramadan arrived, so I – a sinful person – was also privileged to attend Masjid in order to offer Salah. A responsible Islamic brother who was associated with Dawat-e-Islami delivered Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat in the Masjid and met the attendees very warmly afterwards. I was highly impressed with his good manners. The phrase ‘ dear Islamic brothers ’ spoken by him was particularly pleasing to me.

One day, he met me very warmly and invited me to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami held on Thursday. I intended to attend the Ijtima’. Before Thursday, someone gave me an audio-cassette speech titled ‘ Pul-Siraat ki Dehshat, i.e. Horror of Siraat bridge’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. I listened to it very attentively. I had already heard the word ‘Pul-Siraat’ but I did not know that it is extremely dangerous to cross it. I learnt about it after I listened to the Bayan. Thinking how I would be able to cross it with the burden of my sins, I could not hold back my tears. Therefore, I made a firm intention to repent of sins and to get reformed. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of the Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I have adorned my face with a beard according to Sunnah, my head with a beautiful ‘Imamah (Islamic turban) and my body with white clothes.

عطائے حبیبِ خدا مَدَنی ماحول ہے فیضانِ غوث و رضا مَدَنی ماحول

سلامت رہے یا خدا مَدَنی ماحول بچے نظرِ بد سے سدا مَدَنی ماحول

سنور جائیگی آخِرت اِن شَاءَ الله تم اپنا ئے رکھو سدا مَدَنی ماحول

Education Department

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only is Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, motivating Muslims to righteous activities, but it has also established Education Department in order to propagate its message to the people who are associated with all government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutions. The main purpose of this Majlis is to associate people with Dawat-e-Islami so that they can be given the mind-set of living their lives as per Sunnah. With good intentions, this Majlis establishes its relation with the teachers and students of colleges and universities in order to introduce them to the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Further, it tries its best to give them religious and moral training and education by issuing the booklets of Madani In’amaat in educational institutions and establishing Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) in hostels and adorning the future generation with the precious knowledge of Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, until now countless non-practising students have repented of their sins and started offering Salah regularly and acting upon Sunnahs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow blessings upon all the departments of Dawat-e-Islami! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another sign of devotion to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that a person should try to attain the pleasure of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because the pleasure of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also Divine pleasure. In Ayah 62 of Surah At-Taubah, part 10 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اللّٰهُ وَ رَسُوْلُهٗۤ اَحَقُّ اَنْ یُّرْضُوْهُ اِنْ كَانُوْا مُؤْمِنِیْنَ(۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whereas Allah, and His Rasool, had more right that they should have pleased Him, if they had faith.

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was always ready to attain the pleasure of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ tried to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by any means. Let’s listen to the parables of his getting the pleasure of Rasool.

Strange manner of attaining pleasure of Rasool!

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم intended to extend Masjid-ul-Haraam, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to one of the inhabitants of Makkah: Sell your house to me so that I can include it in Masjid-ul-Haraam and guarantee you for a home in Paradise. That person humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I have no other house except this, nor is there any other shelter for me and my family in Makkah. Therefore he did not agree to sell the house.

In the pre-Islamic era, this person was the friend of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . When Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ knew about it, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought the house for 10 thousand dinars. He then went to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I have learnt that you intend to include such-and-such person’s house in Masjid-ul-Haraam and want to guarantee him Paradise? Your Highness! Now this house is mine. Will your Excellency take it from me in return for a home in Paradise? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied in the positive. Then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم got the house from Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and gave him a surety of a home in Paradise and made Muslims witness for it. (Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 22)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought the house for 10 thousand dinars and then presented it to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for attaining his pleasure. Just ponder! There was a time when blessed companions would sacrifice their homes and wealth for the pleasure and love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but unfortunately now, we do not even pay Zakah and Fitrah and for other obligatory and Wajib acts. All the time we think about how our wealth will increase. If we make our mind to give Sadaqah and charity in the way of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so Satan makes us suffer from the diseases like greed and stinginess and destroys this passion of ours. Remember! The wealth will benefit us in the Hereafter which is spent for the righteous deeds only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the world.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to the book ‘Sahabah Kiraam ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool’

Dear Islamic brothers! If we want to become Sunnah-practicing Muslims by following the sacred devotion of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop love for the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in our heart, so for this purpose, it is very effective to study a very beautiful 274-page book ‘ Sahabah Kiraam ka Ishq-e-Rasool ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. This book instils the sacred love of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It contains beautiful parables of blessed companions’ devotion to Rasool, love for Rasool and reverence for Rasool. Therefore buy this priceless book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and not only study it yourself, but also persuade others to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Showing devotion to the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic brothers! Another sign of expressing devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to love the Holy Quran, to form habit to recite it, to act upon its commandments and to refrain from the acts which are forbidden in it. Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was unique in this sign of devotion. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would recite the whole Quran at night during worship.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Taymee رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once I was at Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and the nightfall began. After offering ‘Isha Salah, I reached Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and stood so a person placed his hand between my shoulders. I saw, he was Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . After sometime, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started reciting the Holy Quran with Surah Al-Fatihah and recited the complete Holy Quran. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then performed Ruku’ and Sujood to finish his Salah. After that, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked up his shoes and left. (Allah Walon ki Baatayn, pp. 132)

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was surrounded by his enemies to martyr him, so that time, his respected wife رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا told the enemies: Whether you martyr him or leave him, he is the personality who completes the whole Quran in only one Rak’at during the whole night.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 1, pp. 78, Raqm 130)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had great devotion and love for the Holy Quran. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would worship the whole night and complete the whole Holy Quran in only one Rak’at, but unfortunately majority of us are heedless of reciting the Holy Quran. Our pious predecessors would recite the Holy Quran daily and some would recite a complete Holy Quran daily. Let’s listen to three sayings of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ about reciting the Holy Quran. Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

1. If our hearts are pure we can never be satiated with the recitation of the Holy Quran. (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah, vol. 5, pp. 307)

2. I do not like that any of my days passes without seeing the Holy Quran. (Ibid)

3. Three things are dear to me in the world—giving food to the hungry, giving clothes to people who have no clothes and reciting the Holy Quran. (Irshad-ul-Ibaad, pp. 88)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ liked the things in the world that bring about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but if we ponder over our condition, we will find that our favourite things are to accumulate more and more wealth, earn more and more money, increase bank balance, build high and tall buildings and have status and ranks in the eyes of people. Remember! The Holy Quran will take its reciter to Paradise after interceding with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on his behalf on the Judgement Day and those who do not recite it, it will make them enter Hell.

Quran will intercede

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Quran will intercede and its intercession will be accepted and will quarrel, so it will be verified. The person who keeps it in view, it will lead him to Paradise and the one who ignores it, it will drag him to Hell. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 10, pp. 198, Raqm 10450)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The Holy Quran will intercede on behalf of its reciters. It has been understood that the reciters of the Holy Quran have a great status because they will be privileged to recite the Holy Quran in Paradise as well, even they will be said to keep reciting the Holy Quran and keep passing through the stages of Paradise.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Amr Bin ‘Aas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The reciter of the Holy Quran will be said: Keep reciting the Quran and keep passing through the stages of Paradise and recite with pauses as you would recite with pauses in the world; your abode will be there where you recite the last Ayah. (Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 104, Hadees 1464)

فلموں سے ڈراموں سے عطا کر دے تُو نفرت

بس شوق مجھے نعت و تلاوت کا خدا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his entire life in the devotion and love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ acted upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his life in reverence towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his blessed family. After his martyrdom, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed the privilege upon him that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ not only attained great ranks in Paradise but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also became the heavenly bridegroom in Paradise.

Heavenly bridegroom

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had a dream that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was going somewhere sitting on a piebald horse wearing a luminous Imamah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also wearing such a pair of shoes which were made from green grass and the buckles of which were designed with shining pearls and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also holding a branch of heavenly tree.

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has further said: I said Salam to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave a reply. I humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! I am impatient to see you whereas you are going somewhere in a hurry? Having heard this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم paid attention to me and said smilingly: Undoubtedly Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) has been made a magnificent bridegroom in Paradise and I am going to the same event. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 76)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to spend our lives acting upon the blessed life of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam is in progress. The Urs of a great personage who is renowned as ‘Sadr-ul-Afadil’ is observed in this blessed month.

Few glimpses of blessed life

Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born on 1 st January, 1883 (21 st Safar-ul-Muzaffar, 1300 AH) on Monday in Muradabad, India. He was named ‘Muhammad Na’eemuddin’. Many sons of his father Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Mu’eenuddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away after becoming Haafiz of the Quran. Upon the birth of Sadr-ul-Afadil his respectable father made a vow to devote this son to religious services if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses him with life.

Education and upbringing

Sadr-ul-Afadil received the education of Urdu and Persian from his respectable father Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Mu’eenuddin Nuzhat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He then studied some books of Arabic from Maulana Abul Fadl Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The respectable teacher of Sadr-ul-Afadil Maulana Abul Fadl رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took him to Shaykh-ul-Hadees Imam-ul-Ulama, Allamah Sayyid Muhammad Gull Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said: This student is extremely intelligent. I wish him to complete the rest of Dars-e-Nizami from you. Hadrat accepted it. Sadr-ul-Afadil رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed Dars-e-Nizami from him.

Blessed demise

Mufti Sayyid Ghulam Mu’eenuddin Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It was 11 o’clock and there was no one in the room except me and Hadrat. He had conversation for a while with me and then went quiet. After some time he started saying: Press my arm. I sat up and started pressing his arm and back. I saw him saying something and his face had a lot of sweat. I dried the sweat of his face with a handkerchief. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه raised his gaze and looked at me and then started reciting sacred Kalimah loudly: ‘ لآاِلٰہَ اِلَّااللّٰہُ مُحَمَّدٌرَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہ ’. Reciting sacred Kalimah he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه departed this life on 19 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam

1367 AH. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was laid to rest on the left side of the Masjid of Jami’ah Na’eemiyyah (Muradabad, India).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of Speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard a brief introduction of the blessed life of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and different events of his devotion to Rasool. Whether it was obedience to Rasool or submission to Rasool, devotion to Rasool or devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt, devotion to the Holy Quran or attainment of pleasure of Rasool, in short, in every aspect of devotion to Rasool, his life was a role model of a perfect devotee of Rasool. In addition, we have also heard the essential signs of devotion to Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For example,

Obedience to Rasool and submission to Rasool are essential for devotion to Rasool.

Devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar is essential for devotion to Rasool.

The deeds which please the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are essential for devotion to Rasool.

Devotion to Quran and its recitation are essential for devotion to Rasool.

In addition, we have heard briefly about the blessed life and a brief introduction to Sadr-ul-Afadil Allamah Maulana Mufti Sayyid Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه at the end of the speech.

I pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable us to show true devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the sake of Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about drinking water

1. Two blessed sayings of beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a. Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing away from the glass). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ when you finish.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

b. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breathe into the vessel or to blow into it.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breathe into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breath, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should breathe moving the mouth away from the vessel (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any Ayah of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of cure.

1. Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

2. Drink water in small sips, large sips cause damage to the liver.

3. Drink water in three breaths.

4. Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

5. Look into the utensil before drinking water ensuring that nothing harmful is in it. (Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

6. Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ after drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

7. The leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

8. The leftover of a Muslim is a cure [1] .

9. After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will still be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہ ُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

