اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Welcome to Ramadan

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me, his Salat reaches me; I make Istighfar for him, and besides this, 10 virtues are written for him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

گندے نکمّے کمین مہنگے ہوں کوڑی کے تین

کون ہمیں پالتا تم پہ کروڑوں درود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The sacred month of Ramadan is around the corner. The blessing of Ramadan is excellent! Every moment of it is full of mercy. Reward is increased in this month. The reward for Nafl becomes equal to a Fard and the reward for Fard is increased seventyfold. Every day and night of this sacred month carries countless blessings. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to get more and more benefits from this sacred month! Would that we could observe all the Siyam with apparent and spiritual manners and could succeed in offering Fard Salah, Nawafil and Taraweeh Salah with presence of the mind and humility of the heart! Would that we could be blessed with intense passion to recite the Holy Quran!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

A faith refreshing sermon of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ consisting of the persuasion for virtuous deeds in the sacred month of Ramadan is mentioned on page 70 of the book ‘ Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam ’, volume 2 published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Let’s listen to the sermon and welcome the sacred month of Ramadan by performing lots of virtuous deeds.

Admonitory sermon on welcoming Ramadan

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Ukaym Juhani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that when the sacred month of Ramadan would begin, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-Aam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would state by giving an admonitory sermon to the people on the night of 1 st blessed Ramadan after Maghrib Salah: O people! Undoubtedly the Siyam of this month have been made Fard (obligatory) for you, however, offering Nawafil is not Fard (obligatory) in it, therefore the one who can offer Nawafil should offer Nawafil because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated that these are the best Nawafil and those who cannot offer Nawafil should sleep. Every one of you should have fear saying that if such-and-such a person observes Siyam, I will do so and if such-and-such a person offers Nawafil, I will do so. Whoever observes Siyam and offers Nawafil should do them to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Every one of you should know that he is in Salah until he is

waiting for next Salah. Keep refraining from having useless conversation in the Masjid (the Home of Allah).

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then stated it three times: Be careful! None of you should spend this sacred month uselessly. Do observe Sawm until you see the moon; if the moon becomes doubtful, complete 30 days and do not break your Sawm until it gets dark (you are sure that the sun has set).

(Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 70)

O the devotee of Ramadan! Have you noticed! Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very much aware of the importance and excellence of this sacred month. He would show great devotion and have intense love for this blessed month. He would get extremely happy as the sacred month would begin. In the sacred month of Ramadan, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ not only would become occupied with virtuous deeds, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also persuade Muslims to perform Nafl worship with sincerity in order to develop the yearning for worship in them.

It was also one of the blessed practices of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen to illuminate the Masajid by displaying lights as the sacred month of Ramadan began. Sayyiduna Abu Ishaaq Hamdaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went out on the first night of blessed Ramadan, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw candles glowing on the Masajid and people were reciting the holy book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Having seen this he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ نَوَّرَاللہُ لِعُمَرَ فِيْ قَبْرِہٖ كَمَا نَوَّرَ مَسَاجِدَ اللہِ تَعَالٰى بِالْقُرْاٰنِ ’ i.e. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ illuminate the grave of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has illuminated (in blessed Ramadan) Masajid with the Holy Quran. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 1, pp. 735)

Therefore, we should also make preparation to welcome this sacred month in a glorious way. Instead of spending it in useless activities and heedlessness we should spend it in performing virtuous deeds with sincerity such as Faraaid and Wajibat, Sunan and Mustahabbat, Nawafil, Zikr and Azkaar, reciting the Holy Quran, paying Zakah and Fitraat, giving Sadaqah and charity, ‘Ushr and donations, offering Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht, helping the poor and the needy, staying awake in the night for worship, repenting, making Du’a and

Munajat, reciting Salat and Salam abundantly, reciting Hamd and Na’at and Manqabat, having Madani Halqahs, delivering Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, attending weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs, watching the programs broadcast on Madani Channel and having the privilege to observe the whole-month or last-10 day I’tikaf arranged by Dawat-e-Islami in different Masajid. In short, we should carry out every virtuous and permissible act which pleases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also become occupied with Divine worship as the blessed month would begin.

Beloved Rasool would get ready to perform worship

The mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said, ‘When the sacred month of Ramadan would begin, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would get ready to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and would not come to his blessed bed the whole month.’ (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 449)

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has further said, ‘When the sacred month of Ramadan would began, the colour of the blessed face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would change [into yellow or red]. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer Salah abundantly, make Du’a imploringly and remain overtaken by Divine fear.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 310, Hadees 3625)

Beloved Rasool would remain awake whole night

Imam-ul-‘Aabideen, Sayyid-us-Saajideen صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer some Rak’aat in standing position and some Rak’aat in sitting position in the last years of his blessed life. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer Witr Salah with Tahajjud Salah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would worship much more in Ramadan especially during the last ten days. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would remain awake the whole night and would wake family members to offer Salah and would usually observe I’tikaf. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would make Du’a tearfully and imploringly sometimes in a standing position, sometimes in a sitting position and sometimes in Sajdah along with offering Salah during the night. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would recite the Holy Quran with Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Further, along with the recitation of the Holy Quran he

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also make different Du’as. Sometimes he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would stand in Salah the whole night to the extent that the blessed feet would swell. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 596)

Would give to every such person who asked for

It is also a Sunnah to give Sadaqah and charity abundantly in this month . Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said, ‘In Ramadan, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would set free every prisoner and give something to every such person who asked for.’ (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 449)

Most generous

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has stated, ‘The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most generous of all people and his ocean of generosity would turn turbulent the most in the moments of Ramadan when the honourable Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام visited him. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would come every night and they both would recite the Holy Quran. Rasulullah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would demonstrate more generosity than even a fast blowing wind.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 9, Hadees 6)

ہاتھ اٹھا کر ایک ٹکڑا اے کریم

ہیں سخی کے مال میں حقدار ہم

O the devotees of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Have you heard! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would love the sacred month of Ramadan very much. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would welcome this month in an absolutely splendid way. As the blessed month of Ramadan would begin, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would increase his acts of worship. Surely the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the chief of the innocents and worshippers, even then for the sake of the glory and dignity of this month and educating the Ummah he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not go to his bed the whole month, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would become occupied constantly with Divine worship.

Would that we [sinful people] could also understand the importance of blessed Ramadan and succeed in attaining salvation from Hell and making ourselves deserving of Paradise by collecting virtuous deeds! Let’s listen to two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to increase the importance and excellence of this great month in the heart and with the intention to attain the desire and passion for performing virtuous deeds. We should start performing good deeds from now.

1. Best month

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Such a month has come to you that no other month better than this has ever come to believers and there is no other tougher month than this upon hypocrites and undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ records its Nawafil and its Sawab [reward] before it begins and no doubt the strength for worship is returned to the believer and heedlessness to hypocrite; for a believer this month is a blessing and for a hypocrite it is a burden.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 304; Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 524)

2. Would that the entire year be Ramadan!

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: If bondmen knew what Ramadan is, my Ummah would wish, would that the entire year could be Ramadan! (Sahih Ibn Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 190, Hadees 1886)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that the glory and dignity of the month of Ramadan is extremely exalted, elevated and greater than all other months. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ during this month, spiritually attractive scenes are found everywhere, Masajid get filled with Salah-offering people, Muslims start offering Salah and observing Siyam regularly, the yearning for reciting the Holy Quran and worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ increases and the poor and the needy are helped with Sadaqah and charity. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, fortunate Muslims consider this month to be a blessing as the month begins and become occupied with virtuous deeds because it is the month in which the reward for acts of worship is raised manyfold.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Nakh’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘One day’s Sawm in Ramadan is greater than a thousand Siyam; making Tasbih (i.e. saying سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰه) once in Ramadan is better than saying it a thousand times in any other month and offering one Rak’at of Salah in Ramadan is better than offering a thousand Rak’aat in any other month.’ (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 454)

On the other hand, unfortunate people [who do not value this month] waste this spiritual month [which is the month of forgiveness] by spending their time in accumulating wealth, expanding their business, increasing bank balance, plundering people, flying kites and pigeons, playing games like cricket, hockey, football, tennis, cards, chess, carom board games, ludo, snooker and video games, misusing mobile phones and internet and wandering in the markets. Especially the last 10 days of Ramadan for the business community are not less than a blessing. Past Muslims had great passion and enthusiasm to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the month of Ramadan and they would worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly during this sacred month so that more and more closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ could be attained. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable for persuasion so that we can get rid of our laziness and be blessed with the yearning for worship.

Pious maid

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Abi Faraj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I felt the need of a maid in the month of Ramadan who could prepare food for us. I saw a maid in the market who had a very low bid. Her face was yellow, body was weak and skin was dry. Feeling pity for her I bought her and took her home and said: Hold this vessel and come with me to the market for buying the necessary things for Ramadan. She started saying: O my master! I was with the people who spent their entire life like Ramadan. Having heard this I realized that she must be the righteous bondwoman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . She would worship the whole night in the month of Ramadan. When the last night came I asked her: Come with me to buy the necessary things for Eid. She started asking: O my master! Will you buy the necessary things for ordinary people or special people? I asked her to explain what she had said. She said: The necessities of ordinary people are famous dishes of Eid whereas the

necessities of special people are to separate from people, to get free for service, to attain the closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ through Nawafil and to become humble.

Having heard it I said: I mean that the necessary things for eating. She asked: Which food—food for bodies or for the hearts? I then asked her to explain what she had said. She then said to me: The food for bodies is a famous meal and food whereas the food for the hearts is to stop committing sins, to overcome one’s own fault, to become blessed with the sight of the Beloved and to feel pleased with the accomplishment of the purpose, but for these things one should stop being arrogant, turn to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and trust in Him completely. The maid then stood for Salah. She recited Surah Al-Baqarah in the first Rak’at, then started Surah Aal-e-‘Imran. She then kept on reciting Surahs one after another and reached the Ayah of Surah Ibraheem:

یَّتَجَرَّعُهٗ وَ لَا یَكَادُ یُسِیْغُهٗ وَ یَاْتِیْهِ الْمَوْتُ مِنْ كُلِّ مَكَانٍ وَّ مَا هُوَ بِمَیِّتٍؕ-وَ مِنْ وَّرَآىٕهٖ عَذَابٌ غَلِیْظٌ(۱۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He will sip it with much difficulty and there shall be no hope to swallow it, and death will approach him from every side and he will not die; and an intense punishment is after him.

(Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah 17)

Then she repeated the same Ayah tearfully until she became unconscious and fell over. When I moved her she had departed this life.

(Having narrated this parable Shaykh Shu’ayb Harifeesh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said) سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! These are the virtues of the people who wept tears of sorrow, did Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recited the Holy Quran in the night after waking up, worshipped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and tried to carry out good deeds. Therefore every moment of these people is like the blessed moments of sacred Ramadan. (Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn, pp. 90)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood from the above-mentioned parable that past people used to value the sacred month of Ramadan in a proper manner. They used to spend their days and nights offering Salah, reciting the Holy Quran, and carrying out other virtuous deeds. Therefore get rid of laziness and bad company, wake up to the fact and get ready to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ immediately. This time again the sacred month of Ramadan is falling in the summer season. Nafs will frighten you from the intensity of heat; it will make you feel lazy in observing Siyam, offering Taraweeh and performing other acts of worship by giving reasons for business activities, etc. But remember! The more you feel the heat of hot summer and intensity of hunger and thirst, the more you get reward provided that you remain patient.

It has been narrated: اَفۡضَلُ الۡعِبَادَاتِ اَحۡـمَزُهَا, the best worship is that which has more hardship. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 685)

Imam Sharafuddin Nawavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If there is more hardship and expenses in acts of worship, they will have more reward and excellence as well. (Sharh Nawavi, Juz: 8, vol. 4, pp. 152)

Furthermore, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The more difficult a good deed will be in the world, the heavier it will be on the scale of good deeds on the Day of Judgement. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 95)

عاصیوں کی مغفرت کا لیکر آیا ہے پیام

جھوم جاؤ مجرمو! رمضاں مہِ غُفران ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! The character of our pious predecessors is a role model for us because these people were Allah-fearing, desirous in the matters of performing good deeds and had Madani mind-set. Parents usually do not make their children observe Sawm at a very young age especially in hot summer having fear that they might become ill. But these personages used to be so much devotee of the month of Ramadan that they would start observing Sawm at a very young age by enduring hunger and thirst in very hot summer and then would try to complete it. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it and develop a yearning for virtuous deeds.

Fasting ceremony of A’la Hadrat

Commenting on the account of the fasting ceremony of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Maulana Sayyid Ayyub ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It was a sacred month of Ramadan and it was a first fast [Sawm] ceremony of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Varieties of food items were available in the blessed house. Feerini (a kind of sweet dish which is made with milk, sugar and the rice flour) was also kept in a safe room in a bowl to curdle it. The sun was brighter at midday. It was the warmest time of the day. The blessed father of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took him inside that room and locked it from inside and gave him the bowl of Feerini to eat. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly said: I am observing Sawm, how can I eat this? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sawm of a child is not regarded serious, eat this, I have locked the door, there is no one who could see you eating this. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly said: Under Whose command I have observed the Sawm is watching me. Listening to this, the blessed father رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in tears and they came out of the room. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 87)

اس کی ہستی میں تھا عمل جوہر، سنّتِ مصطفٰے کا وہ پیکر

عالمِ دین، صاحبِ تقویٰ، واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that how A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was firm Shari’ah adherent, Allah-fearing and had deep attachment to the blessed month of Ramadan even since his early childhood. Undoubtedly, it was the special grace and favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon him that in such a minor age and during the exceptionally warm weather, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a courage to observe the Sawm in the month of Ramadan and successfully completed it. Therefore, we should also, following the footstep of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, respect the blessed month of Ramadan and should not skip even a single Sawm of Ramadan in the face of intense heat because if someone misses one Sawm deliberately during the blessed month of Ramadan without any valid Shar’i reason, and then, though he keeps observing Siyam his entire lifetime, he cannot attain the excellence of that single Ramadan Sawm he had skipped or missed.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Anyone who misses one Sawm in Ramadan without a valid reason or without illness cannot make up for it even if he continues fasting forever [and] though he observes Sawm later on.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 638, Hadees 1934)

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ اَدْرَکَ رَمَضَانَ وَلَمْ یَصُمْهُ فَقَدْ شَقِیَ ’ The one who reaches the month of Ramadan but does not observe Siyam in it is unfortunate. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 62, Hadees 3871)

دو جہاں کی نعمتیں ملتی ہیں روزہ دار کو

جو نہیں رکھتا ہے روزہ وہ بڑا نادان ہے

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A monthly magazine, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, namely ‘Mahnamah Faizan-e-Madinah’ is issued in the beginning of each calendar month. It contains extensive Islamic knowledge including the Fatawa (religious verdicts) on behalf of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat in writing with easy understanding. Let’s listen to an informative Fatwa related to the fasting in the hot weather:

Question: What do scholars say about the matter that the blessed month of Ramadan is going to fall in the peak of summer season. Is it permissible for the students to miss the obligatory Siyam of Ramadan due to annual exams? Moreover, those parents who agree with this act of their children or they themselves make their children to miss Siyam, what is the ruling for them?

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْمِ

اَلْجَوَابُ بِعَوْنِ الْمَلِکِ الْوَھَّابِ اَللّٰھُمَّ ھِدَایَۃَ الْحَقِّ وَالصَّوَابِ

The Siyam of the blessed month of Ramadan are Fard on every sane and pubescent person. Missing Sawm without any Shar’i reason is an act of sin. Missing Siyam due to exams or summer season are not valid reasons acceptable to Shari’ah. So, the pubescent students missing Sawm on the basis of aforementioned reasons will definitely be sinners, their parents, if make them miss Sawm without any Shar’i reason, or in spite of being able, do not inquire about their missing Sawm, they too will be sinners as well.

In case the student is a (Shar’i) minor although Siyam are not Fard on him and he is not a sinner in case he misses Sawm without any reason, but when a child is 7 years old, and can observe Sawm, then it becomes necessary upon the parents to order him to observe Sawm. Parents may forbid their (Shar’i) minor children of 7 years or above to observe Sawm only in the condition when it is likely to cause any harm to them otherwise if they make them miss Sawm without any Shar’i reason or remain silent on his missing Sawm, they will be sinners due to missing Wajib.

وَاللہُ اَعْلَمُ عَزَّوَجَلَّ وَ رَسُوْلُہُ اَعْلَم صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

(Mahnamah, Faizan-e-Madinah, May 2017, pp. 54)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Ramadan is such a great month that in this sacred month the Glorious Quran was revealed and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to revise the Glorious Quran with the Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام on every blessed night of this sacred month. So, the fortunate Muslims, following the blessed Sunnah and attaining the blessings of Glorious Quran, engage themselves in recitation of Holy Quran abundantly in this blessed month. It is narrated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah (عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام), ‘I have bestowed two types of Noors upon the Ummah of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) in order to protect them from two types of darkness.’

Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام humbly asked, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What are those two types of Noors?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘The Noor of Ramadan and the Noor of Quran.’ Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام further humbly asked, ‘What are two types of darkness? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘The darkness of grave and the darkness of the Day of Judgement.’

(Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 9)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Express your utmost gratitude to the Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has bestowed 2 Noors upon us in the form of the Glorious Quran and the sacred month of Ramadan so that the horrible darkness of the grave and the Hereafter are removed and the Noor is prevailed all across. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! These two Noors ‘Siyam’ and the ‘Glorious Quran’ will intercede for the Muslims on the Day of Judgement in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The Sawm and the Glorious Quran will intercede for people on the Day of Judgement. The Sawm will [humbly] say, ‘O Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I prevented him from eating and [satisfying the] desires during the day, accept my intercession in his favour.’ The Glorious Quran will say, ‘I prevented him from sleeping at night, accept my intercession for him.’ Thus, the intercessions of both will be accepted.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 586, Hadees 6637)

Masjid Dars, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! It is learnt that the Glorious Quran and the Sawm will intercede for Muslims on the Day of Judgement; therefore, make intention to perform both noble deeds gracefully in the month of Ramadan. In order to gain determination and firmness in observing Siyam and reciting Glorious Quran, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, and committedly take part in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. Masjid Dars is also one of the 12 Madani activities.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of Masjid Dars, one attains a treasure of Islamic knowledge. Commenting on the virtues of Islamic knowledge, Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever goes to Masjid in the morning for

learning or teaching a virtuous act, he will have the full reward equal to that of an accepted Hajj. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 59)

At another place, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever goes out to seek knowledge is in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until he returns.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2647, 1918)

For motivation, let’s listen to a Madani parable regarding ‘Masjid Dars’:

Treasure of information (Madani parable)

An Islamic brother living in Madina-tul-Awliya (blessed Multan) has stated a parable of his own reformation in these words: In 1995, I was a student of FSC. Due to having no Islamic knowledge I developed friendship with a man of corrupt beliefs; I used to spent time, eat and drink with him. It is said that company has its effect, therefore, I also started falling prey to his corrupt beliefs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant a long life to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه who laid the foundation of Dawat-e-Islami and did a great favour to the Muslim Ummah, saving countless of people from these people of corrupt beliefs! Surely if the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami had not been there, the friendship of that corrupt person would have misled me. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed me and I got rid of that friend-like enemy.

It actually happened like this that the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat started in our Masjid. One day my father advised me to attend the Dars by saying that by the blessing of sitting in the Dars not only will a great treasure of information be obtained but the privilege of attaining the great excellence of sitting in a gathering of Islamic knowledge is also gained. I therefore began attending the Dars regularly. Certainly by the blessings of sitting in the Dars, I found the golden opportunity of collecting priceless pearls of Islamic knowledge. In addition to this, it brought such comfort to my heart and mind that I cannot express in words.

By the blessings of the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, I attended the weekly Sunnah- inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. It was a new environment for me and I was very impressed by the knowledge that I received and its practice which I

found everywhere. The heart-rending Bayan and highly motivating Du’a bringing about tears overturned the world of my heart; I sincerely repented of all my sins and associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have also had the privilege of taking the Bay’at from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before the blessed month of Ramadan starts, we should make firm intention that along with observing Siyam with punctuality, we would keep ourselves busy reciting the Glorious Quran and performing supererogatory Salah as much as possible because what normally happens, people, in the beginning of the blessed month of Ramadan show great zeal and enthusiasm and recite Glorious Quran but later on many people deprive themselves of this sacred privilege. In this matter, we should follow the footstep of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, who not only completed the Glorious Quran merely once in a month but they used to have privilege to complete the Glorious Quran many times in a day.

Routine of Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Ibraheem Zuhri

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Sa’d Zuhri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: My [blessed] father did not use to do Iftar on 21 st, 23 rd, 25 th, 27 th and 29 th of Ramadan until he completed his Glorious Quran. He used to ponder over the Hereafter life between Maghrib and ‘Isha Salah and many a time he used to call me for sending for the poor so that they may join him in eating.

(Allah Walon ki Baatayn, vol. 3, pp. 247)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the zeal and worth appreciating enthusiasm of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی for the blessed month of

Ramadan. They used to recite the Glorious Quran excessively in this blessed month. We should make intention to recite the Glorious Quran abundantly in this blessed month and extend a warm welcome with utmost reverence to this spiritual guest (blessed Ramadan).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! When this blessed month of Ramadan approaches, happiness of the Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه knows no bounds: The following poetic words reflect his bliss and ecstasy:

مرحبا صَد مرحبا پھر آمدِ رمضان ہے

کھِل اٹھے مُرجھائے دل تازہ ہُوا ایمان ہے

ہم گنہگاروں پہ یہ کتنا بڑا اِحسان ہے

یا خدا تُو نے عطا پھر کر دیا رَمَضان ہے

ہر گھڑی رَحمت بھری ہے ہرطر ف ہیں برکتیں

ماہِ رمضاں رحمتوں اور برکتوں کی کان ہے

یا الٰہی! تو مدینے میں کبھی رمضاں دکھا

مدتوں سے دل میں یہ عطار کے ارمان ہے

Remember! One of the excellent ways of spending the blessed month of Ramadan carrying out virtues is especially through travelling with Madani Qafilah, and during these precious moments of travelling with Madani Qafilah, call people towards righteousness, prevent them from evil, give people Madani mind-set of observing Sawm by relating the excellence of the blessed month of Ramadan, make individual efforts as much as possible as if the collective and individual efforts carried by you will bring about such an incredible outcome that everyone will observe Sawm.

During Madani Qafilah, Islamic brothers should deliver Dars from the book ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan ’ [Blessings of Ramadan] in the Masjid as well as in Chowk Dars, through this too, this blessed invitation of observing Fard Siyam in the blessed month of Ramadan and other acts of worship will reach many devotees of Rasool. Try to distribute the pamphlet ‘ Ramadan mayn Gunah kernay

walay ka Bhayanak Anjam ’ publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah door to door. It will be greatly appreciated if the devotees of Rasool are also invited for the 30-day I’tikaf or the last 10-day I’tikaf. Especially propagate the message of 30-day I’tikaf, which is going to be held in the global Madani Markaz, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also observed I’tikaf of entire blessed month of Ramadan seeking Layla-tul-Qadr.

Blessed I’tikaf of Beloved Rasool

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed I’tikaf from the 1 st of Ramadan to the 20 th and then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘To seek Layla-tul-Qadr, I spent the first ten days of Ramadan observing I’tikaf, and then the middle ten days, then I was told that this [blessed night] is amongst the last ten days. Therefore, whoever amongst you wishes to observe I’tikaf with me should join me.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 594, Hadees 1167)

Dear Islamic brothers! If it is not possible each year then at least once in a lifetime while following the blessed Sunnah of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, exert utmost efforts to observe entire month I’tikaf. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of I’tikaf, one not only remains protected from the sins but also those good deeds which he could do being staying out of the Masjid and now cannot carry out after observing I’tikaf are also written in his book of deeds.

The renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The immediate advantage of I’tikaf is that the Mu’takif [I’tikaf-observing-person] remains protected from the sins because most of the sins are committed when one meets others which results in backbiting, lying and tale-telling. Mu’takif stays in seclusion keeping himself away from the world. Whoever approaches him to meet also does not involve in unpleasant and offensive conversation due to the respect and reverence of Masjid and I’tikaf.

Further, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Due to the blessing of I’tikaf, Mu’takif earns all rewards against all those deeds which he is deprived, such as visiting

the graves, meeting the Muslims, visiting the sick, attending Janazah Salah etc. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 217)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Collective entire-month-I’tikaf and last ten-day I’tikaf, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami (a global, non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah), is held in different countries and cities in which Mu’takifeen have privilege to get Madani Tarbiyyat (training) by following the I’tikaf schedule, prescribed by Markazi Majlis-e-Shura.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Each year, thousands of Islamic brothers gain Islamic knowledge along with other acts of worship through these collective I’tikaf. Many Mu’takifeen, upon the end of the blessed month of Ramadan, travel with Madani Qafilahs for learning Sunnah on the night of the new moon.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to gain more blessings and rewards, many Mu’takifeen, get the privilege to enrol for the 63-day Madani Tarbiyyati course, 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah course, 12-day Madani course.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Thousands of devotees of Rasool get privilege to observe entire-month-I’tikaf and the last-10-day I’tikaf. Those devotees of Rasool who are willing to observe I’tikaf in the global Madani Markaz, in the blessed company of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, should submit their forms with the permission of their concerned Nigran Division Mushawarat or Nigran-e-Kabinah so that they may not face any trouble in case of delay due to shortage of space.

جَلوۂ یار کی آرزو ہے اگر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

میٹھے آقا کریں گے کرم کی نظر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

چوٹ کھا جائے گا اک نہ اک روز دل مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

فَضلِ رَبّ سے ہدایت بھی جائے گی مل مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

تم کو راحت کی نعمت اگر چاہئے مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

بندگی کی بھی لذّت اگر چاہئے مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As Dawat-e-Islami, the global, non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah, is committed to reform the Muslims of the entire world, over 103 departments for serving Islam, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, have actively been engaged in calling people towards righteousness in more than 200 countries.

Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat is also one of the very important departments of Dawat-e-Islami. Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat, at Jami’ Masjid, Kanz-ul-Iman was launched on 15 Sha’ban 1421 AH. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Until now, 5 Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are operative in Karachi and 2 in Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore). In addition to this, Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are also available in Zamzam Nagar (Hyderabad), in Sardarabad (Faisalabad), in Rawalpindi and in Gulzar-e-Taybah (Sargodha); all these Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat units have been actively serving the grieved Ummah with Shar’i guidance. The reverend Muftis of this department answer hundreds of queries. Question can also be asked to Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat online by sending e-mail at (darulifta@dawateislami.net). For seeking instant Shar’i guidance from across the globe, dial:

0300-0220113 - 0300-0220112

0300-0220115 - 0300-0220114

From 10 am to 4 pm Pakistan Standard Time (Break time: 1 pm to 2 pm). Weekly holiday: Friday.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way Dawat-e-Islami has been promoting the devotion and yearning amongst Muslims for Salah, recitation of Glorious Quran, supererogatory Salah and I’tikaf etc., remembering the Allah-loving people is also a marvellous job of this Madani movement. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The blessed month of Ramadan is round the corner as well as the blessed ‘Urs of Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and the renowned commentator of the

Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه are also celebrated on 3 rd of this month. In this connection, let’s first listen to the few glimpses out of the blessed life-history of Khatoon-e-Jannat, Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Brief glimpses into the sacred life of Khatoon-e-Jannat

Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the youngest and the beloved daughter of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The blessed name is ‘Fatimah’, appellations are ‘Zahra’ and ‘Batool’. Kunyat are ‘Umm-ul-Hasanayn’, ‘Umm-ul-Haad’, ‘Umm-e-Abeeha’. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born 5 years before the announcement of Nubuwwat. Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the leader of the women of all the worlds. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was married to the fourth Khalifah, Sayyiduna Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed her with three blessed sons ‘Imam Hasan ’, ‘Imam Husayn’ and ‘Imam Muhsin’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Whereas Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed her with three blessed daughters ‘Sayyidah Ruqayyah’, ‘Sayyidah Zaynab’, ‘Sayyidah Umm-e-Kulsoom’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ .

Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا never made any demand from her blessed husband. Her principle of eating was that she would not eat even a single morsel until she would feed her children and husband first. It was due to her incredible generosity that no needy person would return from her door without anything even during the period of poverty and hunger she would not let any needy person leave empty handed from her door. As per her routine, she would remain engaged in performing Salah all night long even until morning. For more information about the biography of Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, read 501 page-book ‘ Shan-e-Khatoon-e-Jannat ’ publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

کیا بات رضا اس چمنستانِ کرم کی

زہرا ہے کلی جس میں حسین اور حسن پھول

Now let’s listen to brief life-history of renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

Brief glimpses into the blessed life of Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan

‘Allamah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in Khayra Basti Ojhyaani (district Budaun, UP, Hind) in the blessed early dawn moments on 4 th Jumadal Awla, 1314 AH corresponding to 1894. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such a keen interest in study that he would study under the streetlight. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an incredible writer, remarkable teacher, distinguished Mufti, matchless commentator of Glorious Quran and the great Muhaddis. People used to come from far-flung areas to listen to his Dars-e-Quran. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to recite one part of the Glorious Quran after Zuhr Salah. He himself had a great devotion to the congregational Salah and used to advise his family members for the same. Along with Fard Salah, he used to perform supererogatory Salah, recite Durood-e-Taj and Dalaail-ul-Khayraat with punctuality. He was a true devotee of Rasool, Na’at writer and reciter, punctual and abundant Salat reciter, and a man with very simple and humble temperament. Tafseer-e- Na’eemi (11 volumes) and Mirat-ul-Manajih (famous Hadees book ‘Mishkat-ul- Masabih’ consisting of 8 volumes) are more popular out of his writing works. (Faizan Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi)

For more information about this distinguished personality, read ‘ Faizan-e-Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi ’, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Buy these books from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and make intention to read them. These books can also be read online at: www.dawateislami.net, or can be downloaded free and can also be printed out.

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! To extend warm welcome to the blessed month of Ramadan and to promote the yearning to increase deeds in this blessed month of Ramadan, we had privilege to listen to many Madani pearls:

On the occasion of the start of Ramadan, persuading Muslims to perform good deeds and illuminating the Masajid are the blessed acts of Sunnat-e-Farooqi.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to perform the acts of worship abundantly in the blessed month of Ramadan.

§ Siyam (fasting) and the Glorious Quran will intercede for the Muslims on the Day of Judgement.

§ Allah-loving people, since their childhood, used to observe Siyam in the scorching summer season.

§ Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to complete the Glorious Quran many times in the blessed month of Ramadan.

§ The rewards for good deeds are multiplied manifold during the blessed month of Ramadan.

§ In the end of the Bayan, we heard a brief introduction of Umm-ul-Hasanayn Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the privilege to understand the importance of the blessed month of Ramadan and to carry out more and more virtues not only in the blessed month of Ramadan but also round the year.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of clothing

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls of clothes:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The veil between the eyes of the jinn and the Satr (parts of the body that must be concealed) of people is to recite بِسـۡمِ اللّٰه when anyone is about to take off his clothes.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 59, Hadees 2504)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti A h mad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘As a wall or a curtain serves as a barrier to the sight of people, this Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will serve as a barrier to the sight of jinns, preventing them from seeing a person’s private parts.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 268)

Despite having the means to wear good clothing, if a person avoids them due to humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the attire of Karamah [a heavenly dress].’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 4778)

Clothing must be obtained from H alal earnings. No S alah, whether Fard or Nafl, is accepted if offered in the clothing obtained from H araam earnings. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 36)

Start wearing clothes from the right side. For example, when wearing your upper garment, put your right arm into the right sleeve first and then your left arm into the left sleeve. (Ibid)

In the same way, when putting on the lower garment, put your right foot into the right side first and then the left foot into the left side. When taking clothes off, do the opposite, i.e. start from the left side.

It is stated on page 409 of the 3 rd volume of the 1197-page book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: It is a Sunnah that the length of the Kurta (upper garment) be up to half of the shin, and that of the sleeve be up to the fingertips at the most, with its width of one hand-span.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

1. It is a Sunnah for males to keep the bottom of their trousers/Tahband above the ankles. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 94)

2. Men should wear only masculine clothing and women should wear only feminine clothing. Take the same care when dressing small children.

3. Wearing clothes showing arrogance is forbidden. Whether one has become arrogant or not can be determined by pondering over one’s feelings. If one has the same state after wearing the clothes he had before wearing, it indicates that he has not become arrogant. If the previous state does not exist anymore, this shows he has become arrogant. Therefore, he should refrain from wearing such clothes because arrogance is a very evil trait. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 409; Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

