اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Signs of Accepted Hajj

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who faces any difficulty should recite Salat upon me in abundance because reciting Salat is a means of remaining safe from troubles and afflictions.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 414, Raqm 45)

شافی و نافی ہو تم، کافی و وافی ہو تم

درد کو کر دو دوا، تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned a faith-refreshing parable on page 96 of the book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat ma’ Makkay Madinay ki Ziyaratayn ’:

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that an ‘Aabid (one who abundantly worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) said that he had the privilege of consecutively performing Hajj for 14 years and every year he saw a holy man holding the door of the Holy Ka’bah. When he would say:

لَبَّیْکَ ط اَللّٰھُمَّ لَبَّیْکَ ط لَبَّیْکَ لَا شَرِیْکَ لَکَ لَبَّیْکَ ط اِنَّ الْحَمْدَ وَ النِّعْمَۃَ لَکَ وَ لْمُلْکَ ط لَا شَرِ یْکَ لَکَ ط

a voice could be heard from an unknown source, ‘ لَا لَبَّیْکَ ’, I asked him on the 14 th year if he was deaf. He replied that he was hearing everything. I asked him why he was taking so much trouble. He told me, ‘O Shaykh! I swear an oath that despite these 14 years, if I were of 14 thousand years old and despite the entire year if this reply is heard every day one thousand times, even then I will not raise my head from this door.’

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: While we were conversing, all of a sudden, a piece of paper fell on the chest of that holy man. He gave me that piece of paper. I read it. It was written, ‘O Maalik Bin Dinar! You want to separate My bondman from Me, as I have not accepted his Hajj of 14 years; it is not like this, but I have accepted the Hajj of all the Hajis over this period of time by virtue of his call so that no one could go empty handed from Me.’

(Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat ma’ Makkay Madinay ki Ziyaratayn, pp. 96)

مَغفِرت کا ہوں تجھ سے سُوالی پھیرنا اپنے در سے نہ خالی

مجھ گنہگار کی اِلِتجا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard about the good expectation and the faith of that person, who was apparently an ordinary person but in fact his Hajj was accepted, on the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, holding the blessed door of the Ka’bah. He had been approaching this place for 14 years and calling out:

لَبَّیْکَ ط اَللّٰھُمَّ لَبَّیْکَ ط لَبَّیْکَ لَا شَرِیْکَ لَکَ لَبَّیْکَ ط اِنَّ الْحَمْدَ وَ النِّعْمَۃَ لَکَ وَ لْمُلْکَ ط لَا شَرِ یْکَ لَکَ ط

hoping for mercy with the desire to attain the pleasure and closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, to perform the acts of Hajj and the Tawaf of the Ka’bah and to see the sacred home. In response to this, he kept listening to ‘ لَا لَبَّیْکَ ’, but instead of feeling disappointed with the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he remained content and patient. Finally, he brilliantly succeeded in this test and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ liked the humbleness, humility and the call of:

لَبَّیْکَ ط اَللّٰھُمَّ لَبَّیْکَ ط لَبَّیْکَ لَا شَرِیْکَ لَکَ لَبَّیْکَ ط اِنَّ الْحَمْدَ وَ النِّعْمَۃَ لَکَ وَ لْمُلْکَ ط لَا شَرِ یْکَ لَکَ ط

With the steadfastness of His sincere bondman in Haram-e-Ka’bah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with such a unique acceptance that his sincere calls were made the source of the acceptance of other Hajis.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Hajj is a basic pillar of Islam and a very important act of worship. In order to perform this obligatory act every year, millions of Muslims wear simple and similar attire irrespective of their colour and race forgetting their disagreements and gather on the blessed land of the Haram. The world is astonished to see this amazing example of unity. This moment is not less than a great blessing for the Hajis (pilgrims) as these fortunate people are blessed with the special favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and are blessed with such great gifts in exchange for Hajj that the Muslims who are not financially and physically able to perform Hajj, when they hear about them, they develop the deep desire to pay a visit to this sacred place.

Let’s listen to 4 blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the virtues of Hajj and the gifts bestowed upon the Hajis so that we can further develop the passion for the privilege of performing Hajj:

1. A Hajj pilgrim will intercede on behalf of 400 (Muslims) of his family members and his sins will be removed as if he was born from the womb of his mother that day. (Kanz-ul-’Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 7, Hadees 11837)

2. Perform Hajj, because Hajj erases sins as water washes away dirt.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 416, Raqm 4997)

3. When you meet a Haji, greet him and shake hands with him, and ask him to make Du’a for your forgiveness before he enters his home, because he has been forgiven. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 472, Hadees 2538)

4. The one who leaves with the intention to perform Hajj and then dies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write the reward of Hajj for him until the Day of Judgement and the one who leaves with the intention to perform ‘Umrah and then dies, so for him the reward of ‘Umrah will be written repeatedly until the Day of Judgement. (Musnad Abu Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 441, Hadees 6327)

پھر عطا کر دیجئے حج کی سَعَادت یا رسول

ہو مدینے کی اجازت بھی عِنایت یا رسول

حج کا موسِم آگیا حُجّاج نے باندھی کمر

میرے حج کی بھی کوئی ہو جائے صورت یا رسول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard about the ways Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses the Hajis of His Sacred Home that not only does He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept their Hajj, but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will also bless them with the authority of intercession on the Day of Judgement! As these people return with the

certificate of forgiveness, Muslims have therefore been persuaded to ask them to make Du’as. Therefore, whenever any of us is informed about the return of any Islamic brother after Hajj, we should visit him, congratulate him and request him to make good Du’as for the protection of our faith, salvation from sins, the blessed visit to Makkah and Madinah etc. for us.

Perhaps Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will bless us to pay a visit next year to the holy Ka’bah and Rauda-e-Rasool for the sake of His beloved’s Du’as. From the last blessed Hadees mentioned above, it has also been learnt that the person who leaves his home with the intention to perform Hajj and dies on the way, his fortune changes as the reward for performing Hajj is continuously written for him until the Day of Judgement.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The person upon whom Salah is obligatory to perform should not only learn the necessary rulings on Salah which are obligatory (Fard) for him, but it is also compulsory for him to act upon these rulings during the Salah, in order for his Salah to be accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and he may attain blessings in this world and the Hereafter. Likewise, the person upon whom Hajj is obligatory, should learn the necessary rulings on Hajj and it is also extremely necessary for him to act upon them during the Hajj so that he can achieve his target and his Hajj can be accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Unfortunately, some unwise Muslims deliberately become lazy in learning the rulings on Salah; Fasting; Hajj and Zakah, due to which it is certainly possible that they make mistakes which can nullify their worship, or rather, many times it also happens that if an Islamic brother, with the intention to reform such unwise people tells them: ‘Due to a such-and-such mistake, this worship of yours can be wasted, they reply, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will accept it.’

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts our deeds, but the rulings of Shari’ah regarding them are also given to us by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, therefore, we should properly learn the Shar’i rulings on Salah, fasting, Hajj and Zakah and we must perform deeds

according to the manners given to us by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Thus, after taking absolute care and exercising full responsibility we should be very hopeful to the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for our good deeds to be accepted and we should leave the acceptance of deeds to the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Remember! To intentionally become lazy in learning rulings and after performing acts of worship incorrectly, if we are still hopeful for them to be accepted, is not a wise act. How necessary it is to learn Shar’i rulings in order to perform acts of worship in the correct manner can be judged by this, that talking about the importance of Hajj, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم commanded us to learn its rulings.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Learn the rulings of Hajj because it is a part of your religion. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 12, Hadees 11893)

Let us now listen to the prerequisites of performing Hajj.

The renowned scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: There are eight prerequisites of Hajj which are obligatory. When all these prerequisites are met, only then will Hajj become obligatory, otherwise it will not. Those eight prerequisites are as follows:

1. Islam (Being a Muslim)

2. Being healthy (i.e. his body should be safe, he should not be blind because those whose arms or legs are disabled or paralysed, or the elderly who cannot sit in their vehicles on their own, for them Hajj is not obligatory).

3. Being sane (i.e. Hajj is not obligatory for those who are insane).

1. Being an adult

2. Being free (i.e. Hajj is not obligatory for slaves)

3. He should own the money that will be spent on his journey and to hire transport.

4. He should not be in Dar-ul-Harb or (if he is in Dar-ul-Harb) but he also knows that amongst the obligatory acts of Islam one of them is to perform Hajj. If he does not know this, Hajj is not obligatory for him.

5. Time/season of Hajj (i.e. all the prerequisites or conditions are to be followed only in the months of Hajj). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 6, vol. 1, pp. 1036-1043)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Besides being a great act of worship, Hajj becomes a cause of visiting many sacred places where Du’as are answered. Whether it is in the Hateem-e-Ka’bah or by the Meezab-ur-Rahmah, Maqaam-e-Ibraheem or the plains of ‘Arafat, Mina or Muzdalifah, the Cave Hira or the beautiful and attractive valleys of Makkah Mukarramah, in short, everywhere the mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continue to descend. The doors of answering Du’as and blessings as well as Divine pleasure remain open for Hajis and they are blessed with forgiveness day and night. Therefore, considering this opportunity sufficient, Hajis should make Du’as for themselves and for all Muslims by weeping and begging Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They should especially make this Du’a: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make this Hajj a Hajj-e-Mabroor (i.e. an accepted Hajj) for us because Hajj-e-Mabroor has a great excellence and significance, therefore, the following Du’a should also be continuously recited during the Hajj:

اَللّٰھُمَّ ارْزُقْنَا حَجًّا مَّبْرُ وْرًا وَّ ذَنْبًا مَّغْفُوْرًا وَّ سَعْیًا مَّشْکُوْرًا وَّ تِجَارَۃً لَّنْ تَبُوْرَ

(i.e.) O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bless us with Hajj-e-Mabroor (i.e. an accepted Hajj), forgive our sins, accept our efforts and bless us with the trade that has no loss at all.

(Bihisht ki Kunjiyan, pp. 107)

دِکھا ہر برس تُو حرم کی بہاریں تُو مکّہ مدینہ دِکھا یا اِلٰہی

شَرف ہر برس حج کا پاؤں خدایا چلے طَیبَہ پھر قافلہ یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The meaning and virtues of Hajj-e-Mabroor have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to 3 more blessed Ahadees about the virtues of an accepted Hajj, and rejoice:

1. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The reward of an accepted Hajj is not less than Paradise. It was humbly asked, ‘What is meant by Maqbool (accepted)?’ It was replied, ‘The Hajj in which food is given and good conversation is made. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 173, Hadees 8405)

2. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The reward for an accepted Hajj is Paradise. The blessed companions humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is an accepted Hajj?’ It was replied, ‘The Hajj in which the hungry are fed and Salam is to be promoted.’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 7, Hadees 11830)

3. The best deed before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the faith which has no doubt, the war which has no breach of trust and the accepted Hajj.

(Ibn Hibban, Kitab-us-Siyar, vol. 7, pp. 59, Hadees 4578)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard about the means by which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses His bondmen! Undoubtedly, all of this is the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that every year, millions of devotees are blessed to visit His sacred House

(i.e. the Ka’bah). Furthermore, they go to other sacred places and repent of their sins by weeping and devotedly call out:

لَبَّیْکَ ط اَللّٰھُمَّ لَبَّیْکَ ط لَبَّیْکَ لَا شَرِیْکَ لَکَ لَبَّیْکَ ط اِنَّ الْحَمْدَ وَ النِّعْمَۃَ لَکَ وَ لْمُلْکَ ط لَا شَرِ یْکَ لَکَ ط

with the hope of their Hajj being accepted and they remain occupied with Du’a and Istighfar. O lovers of the Beloved Rasool who fill in the forms of Hajj! O lovers of the Beloved Rasool who prepare for Hajj! Congratulations to all of you! The Holy Ka’bah which you only used to see in pictures and derive comfort, sigh deeply and weep with the desire of its view, for whose blessed view you worked very hard and saved a huge amount of money, for which throughout your life not only did you make Du’a yourself, but you also requested others to make Du’a for you and you waited for so long with the hope that one day you would also be blessed with the visit of this sacred House, you would see the blessed Ka’bah you’re your very own eyes in the state of wakefulness, you would drink the blessed Zamzam water, you would tell your story after sticking to Multazam, you would visit the sacred places and beg for forgiveness and mercy by weeping and begging Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Congratulations! After some days, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will be attaining the blessings of the same great city and will satisfy your thirst with the sacred view of other sacred sights with your very own eyes in the state of wakefulness. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept your Hajj!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

By teaching important rulings to the Hajj pilgrims, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated the following Madani pearls in different Madani Muzakarahs:

1. When a Haji intends to visit the Houses of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, with the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his heart and chest, filled with love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, this is something exceptional!

1. On the blessed Hajj journey, there should also be a staunch Sunni scholar (in the group), who should also be a lover of Ghaus-e-A’zam and one who believes in the slogan ‘Ya Rasoolallah’, so that he may guide the Hajis (pilgrims) on every step and in this way their Iman (faith) will also remain protected.

2. If only the pilgrims could perform Hajj with the blessed intention of pleasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, not with the intention of merely being called a ‘Haji’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Keeping the great memories of the luminous scenes of Haramayn Tayyibayn in the heart, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi, Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in one of his (Kalam) poetic works:

حج کا سفر پھر اے مِرے مولٰی نصیب ہو عَرَفات کا مِنٰی کا نظارہ نصیب ہو

کعبے کے جلوؤں سے دِلِ مُضطر ہو کاش! شاد لطفِ طوافِ خانۂ کعبہ نصیب ہو

مکّے میں اُن کی جائے وِلادت پہ یا خدا پھر چشمِ اشکبار جمانا نصیب ہو

ہم جا کے خوب لَوٹیں مدینے کی دُھول پر آنکھوں میں خاکِ طَیبَہ لگانا نصیب ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The ‘Area visit for calling towards righteousness’ is one of the 12 Madani activities. In order to develop the mindset of getting rid of impermissible practices and customs, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and strive hard to take part in the 12 Madani activities for calling people towards righteousness. Please ensure that you participate in the ‘Area visit for calling people towards righteousness’.

Calling people towards righteousness is such an important piece of work for which all the Holy Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام including the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were sent to this world. In the face of great hardship, trials and tribulation, the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم beautifully carried out this great work of ‘ اَمْرٌ بِالْمَعْرُوْفِ وَنَھْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر ’ (i.e., enjoining good and forbidding evils). We should also find some time to actively take part in this noble Madani work. Apart from this, regularly attend the Madani Muzakarahs every week after ‘Isha Salah along with the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, held every Thursday, from beginning to end and also have the privilege to travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be blessed with lots of blessings. Let me tell you a Madani parable for persuasion:

This is the summary of what an Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) stated, ‘Despite the fact that I had an hernia operation twelve months ago, my abdominal pain still persisted. I changed doctors and used various medications, but the pain remained. One day, an Islamic brother invited me to travel with a Madani Qafilah. I tried to excuse myself by saying that I had a medical condition and that sleeping on the Masjid floor during the Madani Qafilah would worsen my pain. After a lot of convincing, I accepted his invitation and came to the Aalami Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah with the intention to travel with a Madani Qafilah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I was blessed to travel with a 3-day Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah with the lovers of the beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, my hernia pain, which had not been cured with all the medications and treatments, vanished during the three days of the Madani Qafilah.’

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Keep in mind that the meaning of an accepted Hajj is quite extensive, perhaps, it is for this reason that some blessed scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have mentioned the prerequisites of an accepted Hajj in their

books. Furthermore, on the basis of the commentaries of the blessed Ahadees which contain the virtues of an accepted Hajj, the blessed scholars have clearly mentioned some signs of an accepted Hajj. Let me have privilege to relate them so that we all and the visitors of Haramayn Tayyibayn can succeed in getting our names recorded amongst those who get the good news of their Hajj being accepted.

The renowned scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There are three pre-requisites for a Hajj to be accepted. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in verse 197 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

فَلَا رَفَثَ وَ لَا فُسُوۡقَ ۙ وَ لَا جِدَالَ فِی الۡحَجِّ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then there should be no mention of copulation before women; nor any sin nor quarrelling with anyone till the time of Hajj. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 197)

Commenting on this sacred verse, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: During the Hajj, such evil activities must be avoided! When he gets angry or gets into an argument or even if he has the thought of committing any sin, he should lower his head and recite the above-mentioned verse with ‘ لَا حَوْلَ وَلَا قُوَّۃَ اِلَّا بِاللہِ الْعَلِیِّ الْعَظِیْم ’ one or two times with full concentration; he will be saved from this condition of thinking of evil.

Sometimes, a quarrel breaks out between Hujjaj and at times even other people who are present use foul language and unreasonably quarrel with the Haji. This is a tough test for the Haji. He should always be cautious and avoid quarrels so that the efforts he has made and the money he has spent on the journey may not go to waste just because of a few words.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 1060-1061, slightly modified)

Remember, sinful acts and quarrels are prohibited everywhere, but since Hajj is a great and sacred act of worship, during this worship it is strongly advised to abstain from any form of evil or quarrels.

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, part 2, Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah: 1, slightly modified)

چُوموں عَرَب کی وادیاں اے کاش! جا کے پھر صَحرا میں اُن کے گھومنا پھرنا نصیب ہو

کعبے کے جلوؤں سے دلِ مُضطَر ہو کاش! شاد لُطفِ طوافِ خانَۂ کعبہ نصیب ہو

Now let’s listen to some signs of an accepted Hajj:

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is reported, ‘One of the signs of an accepted Hajj is that a Haji gives up all those acts of disobedience that he was indulged in the past, he quits the company of bad friends and keeps the company of pious people, he abandons the gatherings of sports and entertainments, and attends the gatherings of Zikr and Fikr (contemplation) and the gatherings in which the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done abundantly.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 803)

Ala Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The sign of a Hajj-e-Mabroor (an accepted Hajj) is that the Haji becomes better than before when he returns.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, 467)

The renowned and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The Haji should take provisions more than his need so that he can help his fellow travellers and give Sadaqah (charity) to the poor. This is also a sign of an accepted Hajj.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 6, vol. 1, pp. 1051, slightly modified)

Shaykh-ul-Hadees ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: An accepted Hajj is a Hajj during which the Haji does not commit any sinful act, nor is there any doubt of showing-off nor fame, rather, [good deeds are performed] only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bihisht ki Kunjiyan, pp. 107, slightly modified)

(At another place, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that when setting out on the Hajj journey), whatever money or provision for journey one gets should be from Halal earnings, otherwise there is no hope of his Hajj being accepted, though his Fard (obligation) will be fulfilled. If one has some doubts about his wealth, he should rather borrow the money from someone and then go for Hajj and later on he should pay his loan back from his own wealth. He should take money and provisions more than his need so that he can help his fellow travellers and give Sadaqah (charity) to the poor people as this too is a sign of an accepted Hajj. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 367, slightly modified)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also mentioned some signs of an accepted Hajj in many places. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said:

§ An accepted Hajj is that Hajj which is free from quarrels, sins and showing-off and is performed correctly. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 87)

§ An accepted Hajj is the Hajj that is performed after offering Salah etc.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 146)

§ An accepted Hajj refers to a Hajj in which one abstains from sins or the Hajj in which one abstains from showing-off and fame or

§ It is a Hajj, after which, the Haji abstains from sins till his death and does not perform any act that ruins his Hajj.

§ Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: An accepted Hajj is such a Hajj, after which, the Haji desires the Hereafter and not the world.

§ It is a Hajj that softens the heart of the Haji and he has sorrow in his heart and wetness in his eyes. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 441)

§ An accepted Hajj is one that is performed correctly with Halal earnings, that is performed with sincerity and the Haji does not perform any such act till his death that ruins his Hajj, that is, the reward of an accepted Hajj will not be only in the form of worldly food and forgiveness from sins or salvation from Hell or relief in torment, but Paradise must be granted. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 96)

حج کا شَرَف ہو پھر عطا یا ربِّ مصطَفٰے میٹھا مدینہ پھر دِکھا یا ربِّ مصطَفٰے

دیدے طوافِ خانَۂ کعبہ کا پھر شَرَف فرما یہ پورا مُدَّعا یا ربِّ مصطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how important and necessary it is to have sincerity and to protect oneself from showing-off for attaining the blessing of an accepted Hajj! Remember! Sincerity is the key to acceptance, even very noble deeds which are performed without sincerity are not accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, if a Hajj pilgrim is filled with the treasure of sincerity, this too is a sign of an accepted Hajj. Whereas, showing-off, a desire for respect and fame are huge obstacles in the path to the acceptance of his Hajj, besides the acceptance of other good deeds.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in the book ‘Rafiq-ul-Haramayn ’:

Remember, sincerity is a prerequisite for the acceptance of any worship. Alas! Now, due to drifting away from Islamic knowledge and good company, most of our acts of worship are destroyed due to showing-off. As showing-off is usually an integral part of every act, similarly, a great act of worship like Hajj is also becoming its victim. For example, after performing Hajj, countless of people call themselves ‘Haji’ and mention the title of Haji before their names without any wisdom and reason.

Perhaps you would be thinking as to what is wrong with this. Although there is no harm if other people call you Haji without you desiring it, but dear Hujjaj! Ponder calmly, if one calls himself Haji, isn’t he unnecessarily informing others of his worship!

Nowadays, the trend of showing-off has grown to extreme limits! Upon departure or arrival of some Hujjaj, his home is decorated with lights along with a board ‘Congratulations on your Hajj’ displayed in front of his home. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, at some places, many Hajis who are dressed in Ihram even get themselves photographed a lot. What is this? Is it appropriate for an escaped slave to go to the blessed court of his Rab with such pomp and show? Definitely not, one should go for Hajj, trembling with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with tears in the eyes and deep sighs. There are probably greater risks of showing-off in Hajj as compared to Salah and Fasting etc., the Hajj is such a form of worship that is performed publicly, and not everyone is blessed with it. Therefore, people meet the Haji with humility, honour him, kiss his hand with respect, make him wear garlands around his neck and request him to make Du’as for them.

On such occasions, the Haji faces a tough test because humility and reverence on the part of people give such pleasure to the Haji that he considers even the toughest act of worship as the easiest one. Sometimes, he falls into the deep and deadly abyss of desire for respect and showing-off without noticing it at all. He desires that all people should be informed about his departure for Hajj so that they come to meet and congratulate him, give him gifts, offer him garlands, request him to make Du’as for them, implore him to convey their Salam to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Madinah and arrive at the airport to see him off etc. Due to these desires and a lack of religious knowledge, Satan sometimes plays with such a Haji as children play with a toy. Therefore, being alert to the attack of Satan, create lots of humility in your heart and avoid boasting. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! No one will be able to bear the torment of showing-off. (Rafiq-ul-Haramayn, pp. 51-56)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is stated on page 79 of the 616-page book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (part 1) published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Without doubt, there is a valley in Hell from which Hell itself seeks refuge, four hundred times daily. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has prepared this valley for those ostentatious people (show-offs) from the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who are the Haafiz of Quran, give charity for [something or someone] other than Allah, perform Hajj of the House of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and travel in the Divine path.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 12, pp. 136, Hadees 12803)

عطا کردے اِخلاص کی مجھ کو نعمت

نہ نزدیک آئے رِیا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Allah Allah! Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that the disease of showing-off is so fatal that due to its curse, not only those who memorize the Holy Quran or those who give Sadaqah, perform Hajj and travel in the Divine path get deprived of their good deeds, but م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ their abode will also be a very dangerous valley of Hell. Therefore, if the accursed Satan tempts us to show off or to desire for fame and respect for our Hajj or any other worship, we should have fear of the Everlasting Sovereign Power of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we should make ourselves understand that the act of uttering some praiseworthy sentences of people for me or their act of looking at me with praiseworthy eyes or my rise to fame will surely be a pleasure for my Nafs, but their praises will neither increase my reward, nor can it help me attain success in the plain of Mahshar. However, if I suffer from the praise of people or the disaster of showing-off, my worship will not be accepted, so what is the advantage of having the desire of such praises? Why should I perform a good deed to show off to people? I should only worship for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Upon having evil thoughts of showing-off if we make our Nafs understands in this

way then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will succeed to a great extent in protecting ourselves from showing-off.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Study the book, ‘ Rafiq-ul-Haramayn ’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه to learn about the virtues and rulings on Hajj and to get rid of the evils of showing-off.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In this book, he has mentioned the intentions of performing Hajj and ‘Umrah, their methods, 26 Madani pearls of going on a journey, the way of wearing an Ihram, different Du’as, interesting parables, necessary precautions, Madani pearls of visiting the blessed Raudah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, useful information about the sacred places of Makkah and Madinah, important questions and answers about Hajj and many other Madani pearls. Therefore, obtain this book today from a Maktaba-tul-Madinah stall and study it not only yourself, but also persuade others to read it. Buy as many as possible according to your financial ability with the intention to earn rewards and offer it to Hajj pilgrims as a gift, if it is possible. It can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should keep in mind the manners of the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the matter of a very important act of worship like Hajj along with other acts of worship. The pious people’s manner of Hajj is also very different from ours. Despite remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night and being occupied with His obedience and perfectly performing the acts of Hajj

and abstaining from those things which are obstacles in the path to the acceptance of Hajj, they remain in fear of being rejected by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . However, due to the excellent acceptance of these blessed personages before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sometimes the Hajj of all the Hajis is accepted. Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing parables and derive Madani pearls of advice from them.

Sayyiduna Imam Zayn-ul-‘Aabideen ‘Ali Bin Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was honoured to perform Hajj. When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wore the Ihram and got onto the carriage, his blessed face became pale. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started trembling and could not utter ‘ لَبَّيْك ’. People humbly asked him, ‘Why do you not utter ‘ لَبَّيْك ’? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I am fearful that I might get the reply ‘ لَا لَبَّيْك ’!’ He was asked (Hudoor!) It is necessary to utter ‘ لَبَّيْك ’ after wearing the Ihram (at least once after making the intention to perform Hajj).

As he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ uttered ‘ لَبَّيْك ’ he fell unconscious and fell over from the carriage, and remained in the same state until he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ completed his Hajj. (Tahzeeb-ut-Tahzeeb, vol. 5, pp. 670, Raqm 4855)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah ‘Adawiyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا performed Hajj after traveling bare-feet. She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would distribute whatever food Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted her. As she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا reached the Holy Ka’bah she fainted. When she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا regained consciousness, she placed her cheek on (the doorframe of) the blessed Baytullah and humbly said, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This is the shelter of your bondmen and You love them; Maula! Now tears are no more in my eyes.’

Then she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا performed Tawaf; after performing Sa’ee when she intended to observe Wuqoof-e-‘Arafah, her monthly began. Whilst weeping,

she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا humbly said, ‘O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If this had happened because of anybody else except You I would have registered a complaint to You but it has happened according to Your will, so how can I complain!’ Upon saying this she heard a voice from the angel who gives the call from the unseen (Ghayb), ‘O Raabi’ah! We have accepted the Hajj of all the Hajis because of you and due to this situation of yours, their deficiencies have also been overcome.’ (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 60)

یا خدا! حج پہ بُلا آ کے میں کعبہ دیکھوں کاش! اِکبار میں پھر میٹھا مدینہ دیکھوں

پھر مُیَسَّر ہو مجھے کاش! وُقُوفِ عَرَفات جَلوَہ میں مُزدَلِفہ اور مِنٰی کا دیکھوں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to the above-mentioned parables it can be judged that the Hajj of pious people (men and women) attains a high status of acceptance before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The passion for sacrifice of Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا during the Hajj was something praiseworthy. She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would sacrifice even her own food in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and would remain hungry. During the essentials of Hajj even in the days when her monthly began, instead of her complaining due to her situation, she gave thanks and remained patient, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ liked this so much that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted the Hajj of all the Hajis for her sake.

From the above-mentioned parable, we all can get the Madani pearls of advice that if any of us gets the opportunity to perform Hajj, and if we suffer from any inconvenience during the blessed journey, such as suffering from the intensity of heat during Hajj, illness, goods or money being stolen, good residence not being found or any other grief, so by making our minds in advance to remain patient upon these inconveniences, we will try to earn the great treasure of rewards, because for the devotees, even a thorn of this blessed journey is like a flower, and by mentioning our grievances or troubles to people is not the manner of wise people and devotees.

مکّہ بھی ہو نصیب مدینہ نصیب ہو دشتِ عَرَب نصیب ہو صَحرا نصیب ہو

کعبے کے جلوؤں سے دلِ مُضطَر ہو کاش! شاد لُطفِ طوافِ خانَۂ کعبہ نصیب ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we are very fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed us with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy spreading the call towards righteousness in more than 103 departments for preaching Islam. ‘Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah’ is also one of these departments. It has been established to properly teach the manners of visiting the Baytullah and blessed Raudah and to teach the necessary rulings to Islamic brothers and sisters who go to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah. The expert preachers (Islamic brothers) of this Majlis go to Haji camps in the days of Hajj and teach the manners to male Hajj pilgrims every year, whereas female preachers (Islamic sisters) teach these manners to female Hajj pilgrims.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Those who go to Makkah and Madinah for Hajj and visit to Madinah are presented with the books Rafiq-ul-Haramayn and Rafiq-ul- Mu’tamireen, written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat as a gift under the supervision of this Majlis so that the guests of the House of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the lovers of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can succeed in performing this worship in a proper manner.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is himself ‘greedy for good deeds’ and also persuades the Muslim Ummah to perform good deeds. He has presented 19 Madani In’amaat for Hajj and the journey to Madinah in the form of questions. Listen to the Du’a that Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has made for the ones who act upon these Madani In’amaat: ‘O Rab of Mustafa! The person who spends his time during the journey for ‘Umrah according to these Madani

In’amaat, bless him with the blessed sight of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of his death.’

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, it is the wish of every Hajj pilgrim to return after attaining the blessings of Hajj and the Hereafter which are obtained from Hajj and to be amongst those fortunate ones whose Hajj is accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, the fortunate people who are privileged to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah should seriously contemplate as to whether the money they are going to spend for Hajj and ‘Umrah is Halal or not as one of the signs of Hajj being accepted is that the Hajj should be performed with Halal and pure money.

Remember! It is not necessary only for Hajj, but for all types of monetary worship that it must be performed with Halal and pure money. Let’s listen to two admonishing Ahadees in this regard and tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

1. When a Hajj pilgrim leaves to perform Hajj with Halal earnings and utters ‘ لَبَّیْک اَللّٰہُمَّ لَبَّیْک ’ after resting his foot in the stirrup of his ride (i.e. with the intention to go on a journey), then from the sky someone calls out ‘ لَبَّیْکَ وَ سَعْدَیْکَ ’ your provisions for the journey are Halal, your transport is Halal, your Hajj is accepted and you are free from sins and when a Haji leaves to perform Hajj with Haraam earnings and utters ‘ لَبَّیْک ’ resting his foot in the stirrup of his ride (i.e. with the intention to go on a journey), then from the sky someone calls out ‘ لَا لَبَّیْکَ وَ لَا سَعْدَیْکَ ’ your provisions for the journey are Haraam and your wife and children’s expense is Haraam and your Hajj is not accepted. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 65, Hadees 5228)

1. If a person gets Haraam wealth and gives it in charity, it is not accepted. If he spends it, there is no blessing for him in it; and if he leaves it after death, it is a means of him entering Hell.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 34, Hadees 3672)

On page 541 of Fatawa Razawiyyah, volume 23, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The righteous act performed with usury (interest) money is not worthy of being rewarded. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: When the one who leaves to perform Hajj with Haraam earnings utters ‘ لَبَّیْک اَللّٰہُمَّ لَبَّیْک ’, a voice from the Ghayb (hidden) replies, ‘Neither your Labbayk is accepted nor is your service accepted, and your Hajj is rejected. (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 4, pp. 727)

Until you return the Haram earnings that are in your possession to the deserving people . It is stated in another blessed Hadees: The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘ اَيُّهَا النَّاسُ اِنَّ اللهَ طَيِّبٌ لَا يَقْبَلُ اِلَّا طَيِّبًا ’ O people! Undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Pure, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ only accepts that which is pure [1] .’

In one of his Kalams (poetic stanzas), Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه advises the Muslim Ummah to abstain from the evil effects or curse of Haraam earnings:

نارِ دوزخ میں نہ لے جائے کہیں مالِ حرام

کر لو توبہ چھوڑ دو اے بھائیو!سب ہَیر پھیر

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the consequences of the curse of Haraam earnings are extremely dangerous because it not only destroys the noble acts

of worship like Hajj and Sadaqah, but can also lead [a person] to Hell after death (م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ). Therefore, those who perform Hajj with Haraam earnings should have fear of the Hidden Plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of hoping for their Hajj to be accepted. If they are punished due to Haraam earnings, nothing will be left for them, but insult and disgrace. Therefore, those who have performed Hajj with Haraam earnings, must sincerely repent to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ of performing their Hajj with Haraam earnings, earning Haraam and consuming Haraam. They should also make a firm intention to earn Halal sustenance and give Sadaqah, perform Hajj and other good deeds with it while abstaining from Haraam earnings in future. Furthermore, seek Shar’i guidance about one’s Haraam savings, from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have had the privilege to hear about the excellence of Hajj and signs of an accepted Hajj. We have heard:

§ One of the signs of an accepted Hajj is that a Haji (one who performs Hajj) gives up the disobedience he was committing earlier and keeps the company of pious people after leaving his bad friends. He attends the gatherings of Zikr and Fikr and the gatherings in which the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done abundantly after giving up the gatherings of sport and entertainments and heedlessness.

§ Another sign of an accepted Hajj is that a Haji becomes better than before when he returns.

§ Another sign of an accepted Hajj is that a Haji should get more provisions for his journey rather than only the necessary things so that he can help his fellow travellers and can give Sadaqah to Faqeers (the poor).

§ A Haji should not commit any sinful act during the Hajj, nor should there be any doubt of showing-off and fame [about him], but [he should perform] good deeds for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ Also, his Hajj should be free of quarrels, sins and showing-off and it should be performed correctly. It should be performed by also establishing his Salah etc.

§ Another sign of accepted Hajj is that a Haji dislikes the world and pays his attention to the Hereafter or it softens the heart of the Haji in a way that he has sorrow in the heart and wetness in the eyes.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless all of us with the privilege of an accepted Hajj and the journey to Madinah for the sake of His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Firstly, two sayings of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Two Rak’aat offered after using the Miswak, are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without using a Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, pp. 102, vol. 1, Hadees 18)

2. Make use of the Miswak necessary upon yourselves, because in this lies the cleanliness of the mouth and a cause for (attaining) the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, pp. 438, vol. 2, Hadees 5869)

3. Miswak should be from Zaytoon or Neem, or similar trees/plants having a bitter taste.

4. Thickness of the Miswak should be equal to the thickness of the little finger.

5. Miswak should not be longer than one’s hand span, as Satan sits on it.

6. The strands of the Miswak should be soft; otherwise, they might cause spaces between the teeth and gums.

7. If the Miswak is fresh then it is excellent; otherwise soak it in a glass of water until it becomes soft.

8. Trim the strands everyday as they are beneficial only as long as they have some bitterness.

9. Brush your teeth horizontally with the Miswak.

10. Always brush your teeth with the Miswak in three cycles.

11. Rinse it after each cycle.

12. Hold the Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains beneath it and the middle three fingers remain over it while the thumb also beneath pointing towards the top (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

1. First brush (with the Miswak) the top right row of the teeth followed by the top left row. Then the bottom right row and lastly the bottom left row of the teeth.

2. Using the Miswak while holding it in the fist, poses the risk of piles.

3. Miswak is a Sunnah before the performance of Wudu but if one has bad breath, using the Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

4. Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands as it is a tool used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

