Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Hajj of the Devotees

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ قَرَأَ الْقُرْاٰنَ وَ حَمِدَ الرَّبَّ وَ صَلَّی عَلَی النَّبِیِّ ’ Whoever recited the Holy Quran, praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) ‘ وَاسْتَغْفَرَ رَبَّہ فَقَدْ طَلَبَ الْخَیْرَ مَکَانَہٗ ’ and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​ ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We can’t thank Allah Almighty enough for blessing us with the great blessing of Islam. Islam has 5 basic pillars. It is Fard [obligatory] upon every Muslim to believe in them. Out of these basic pillars of Islam, the last pillar is “Hajj”. Performing Hajj is Fard once in a lifetime for every such Muslim who can afford it. Therefore, it is stated in part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah No. 97:

وَ لِلّٰهِ عَلَى النَّاسِ حِجُّ الْبَیْتِ مَنِ اسْتَطَاعَ اِلَیْهِ سَبِیْلًاؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And performing Hajj of this house, for the sake of Allah, is (an obligation) upon the people, who have the means to reach it.

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan [1], volume 2, page No.17: This Ayah mentions the obligation of Hajj and that being able to afford it is a condition. In a blessed Hadees, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has explained it as the “provisions for the journey” and “means of transport”. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-ut-Tafseer, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, vol. 5, pp. 6, Hadees 3009)

Food provisions should be enough for her till her going and returning. Moreover, this should be in addition to the living expenses of her household till her return. Safety of the journey is also important as without having the safety, performing Hajj does not become obligatory.

Dear Islamic sisters! The month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam 1439 Hijri is just about to arrive. In this month, fortunate Muslims who can afford it, attain the privilege of performing this great pillar of Islam. In today’s Sunnah-inspiring Bayan [2], we will listen to the faith refreshing parables of the devotees of Hajj. Let’s listen to a parable in this relation.

Would that! I would come here very willingly and with utmost obedience

It is reported that Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn Masrooq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was the minister of the Caliph Haroon Rasheed, when Allah Almighty blessed him with the privilege of repenting, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه repented from his sins and left for Makkah Mukarramah weeping and walking barefoot. When the leaders of Makkah heard that the minister is about to reach Makkah, they gathered outside Makkah Mukarramah to present Salam to him. They saw that the facial texture of the minister is changed, his hair is untidy and dusty, and his body and face is extremely dusty too. Being astonished, the leaders asked the minister of Haroon Rasheed: ‘Why did you travel through the jungles and fields walking barefooted and in a state of having an appearance of destitute?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه responded: ‘Please tell me that what should be the state of a person who presents himself in the court of his Master? I have arrived here walking, whereas the right of this place is such that I should have come here walking on my head [1] .’ (Al-Bahr-ul-‘Ameeq, pp. 319)

حرم کی زمیں اور قدم رکھ کے چلنا

اَرے سَر کا مَوقع ہے او جانے والے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 158)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that when Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Masrooq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for the journey of Makkah, he left in an extremely poor state and barefooted. When he was asked the reason for this, what a beautiful reply he gave that when a slave presents himself in the court of his Master, then the right of the court is that the slave presents himself while

walking on his head (i.e. with utmost reverence and respect); Whereas, I have just come barefooted. Undoubtedly, the appropriate manners of presenting oneself in the great court are that when a person goes there, she shouldn’t go there in an arrogant and boastful manner. Rather, she should attain the privilege of presenting herself (in the blessed court) in an extremely humble manner. Persuasion for this is also found in a blessed Hadees. Therefore, someone humbly asked in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasoolallah! How should a Haji be?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم responded: ‘With untidy hair and dust’. (Sharh-us-Sunnah lil-Baghawi, vol. 4, pp. 9, Hadees 1840)

Dear Islamic sisters! Every devotee has a wish in her heart to embark on the blessed journey of Haramayn Tayyibayn. Moreover, this wish shall also be present in our hearts too. Some fortunate people’s wish is fulfilled. They behold the Baytullah Shareef and perform the rites of Hajj. Thereafter, they are blessed with beholding the wonderful vision of the blessed shrine of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic sisters! Going to behold the blessed Ka’bah and the Green Dome, whether it is HaHa Hajj or ‘Umrah, whatever the intention might be, it is undoubtedly a great fortune and privilege to take a step towards the blessed Haram. Moreover, a person who leaves her home with this intention gains immense benefits because this is such a journey that is covered with the mercies and blessings of Allah Almighty at every step. And when the person reaches Haramayn Tayyibayn, then what can be said about her fortune. Her fortune shines to its pinnacle. Furthermore, in the meanwhile, if she passes away over there and gets resting place in Jannat-ul-Baqi’, then what other bigger reward can be there for her? Along with this, reward according to the intention of her righteous deed will keep getting written down in her book of deeds until the Day of Judgement. Moreover, even if one has to return, then the imagination of going to Madinah again also becomes a means of soothing the urge of the devotees of Rasool. In short!

This blessed journey has numerous benefits. Let’s listen to some blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

1- This house is the pillar of Islam. The Hajj or ‘Umrah performing person who leaves his home with the intention of going to Baytullah Shareef, if his soul is seized, then it is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty to enter him into the Paradise. And if he returns (after performing Hajj), then he will return with rewards and blessings. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 352, Hadees 9033; Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, lil-Daylami, vol. 2, pp. 382, Hadees 7208)

2- The one who leaves his home to perform Hajj or ‘Umrah and passes away, he will be rewarded with the reward of the one who performs Hajj and ‘Umrah continuously until the Day of Judgement. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 4100)

3- The one who set out in this path to perform Hajj or ‘Umrah and died, he will not be presented for accountability and nor will he be held to account, and he will be asked to enter Paradise. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 111, Hadees 5388)

طیبہ میں مَر کے ٹھنڈے چلے جاؤ آنکھیں بند

سیدھی سڑک یہ شہرِ شَفاعت نگر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, p. 221)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Being blessed with the privilege of going to Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah زَادَھُمَا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا is such unique opportunity which is only attained by those who are fortunate. We cannot pay enough gratitude for this. Whenever anyone is blessed with this sacred

journey, then she should travel while paying gratitude over her fortune, remembering her sins and trembling with the fear of Allah Almighty with the hope that we will go to the sacred lands of Haramayn Tayyibayn and attain the mercies that are being showered there at all times, get our sins forgiven and revive our blackened hearts.

Remember! When we will travel with these righteous intentions and repent over our sins while being remorseful over them at every sacred place, then our sins will definitely be forgiven with the mercy of Allah Almighty. Alas! A large number of people nowadays consider this sacred journey to be like any other ordinary journey. Looking at them gives you the impression as if they have مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ come there to enjoy a picnic. They mess around as usual, create usual noise and keep joking around and laughing uncontrollably. What should actually happen is that the fortunate one who gets this opportunity should consider this to be a sacred privilege for herself and revere it immensely while understanding its purpose. While mentioning the greatness and importance of this journey, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says:

ہاں ہاں رہِ مدینہ ہے غافل ذَرا تو جاگ

او پاؤں رکھنے والے یہ جا چشم و سَر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, p. 218)

Dear Islamic sisters! We should also ensure that whenever we are blessed with the privilege of embarking on this blessed journey, then keep in mind while revering the journey lest we commit any such action which becomes a means of the whole journey to go in vain. Some foolish people do not refrain from joking around even at these sacred places and are seen ruining its sanctity while remaining engaged in useless conversations. Some people use their mobile phones unnecessarily even there. Some foolish people waste their precious time by taking their own selfies at these sacred places and become a means of concern for other people too. Who knows that how

many people’s Hajj and ‘Umrahs would be affected because of the actions of this type of people, resulting in affecting their devotedness and diverting their attentions.

If we study the parables of the journeys of Haramayn Tayyibayn of our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, then we would come to know that these personalities would embark on the journey of Hajj with extreme respect and reverence, supplicate imploringly in the blessed court of Allah Almighty, seek repentance of their sins, adopt humbleness and humility and leave for the journey of Madinah while being overcome with the fear of Allah Almighty and love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in such a way that due to the blessings of their company, other people would also adopt their traits. Let’s listen to a faith refreshing parable.

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to me: ‘I intend for Hajj. Make someone my companion for the journey.’ Therefore, I convinced one of my neighbours to go on the journey of Hajj with him. The next day, my neighbour came to me and said: ‘I cannot go with Sayyiduna Buhaym (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه)’. Astonished, I asked: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not seen a well-mannered person like him in the entire Kufa. After all, what is the reason that you are depriving yourself from his company?’ He said: ‘I have heard that he often cries. That’s why my journey with him will not be pleasant.’ I explained him that he is a very righteous person. His company will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be extremely beneficial for you. He agreed. When provisions for the journey were being loaded onto the camels, then Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sat by a wall and started crying; to the extent that his beard and chest got soaked with tears and tears started falling on the ground. My neighbour anxiously said to me: ‘It is just the start of the journey and this is his state. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows what’s going to happen later on.’ While persuading him, I said: ‘Do not get worried. It’s a matter of travelling. It is possible that he may be crying due to the separation from his household, and later on, he would settle down afterwards.’

Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard this and said: ‘ وَاللّٰہ! It’s nothing like this. Due to this journey, I remembered the “journey of the Hereafter”.’ Having said this, he started crying bitterly. My neighbour once again said to me in a state of anxiousness: ‘How would I be able to stay with him? He should travel with Sayyiduna Dawood Taa`ee and Sayyiduna Salam Abul Ahwas رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی because they two also weep a lot. He will adjust with them very well and they would cry a lot together.’ I encouraged my neighbour again. Eventually, he embarked on the journey of Hajj with him.

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When they returned from Hajj, I went to see my Haji neighbour. He told me: ‘May Allah Almighty reward you immensely. I have not seen a person like him anywhere. Although I was rich, but he would spend abundantly on me despite being poor; despite being old, he would observe Siyam; he would cook food for a non-Sawm observing young man like me and would serve me a lot.’ I said: ‘But you used to get worried due to his act of crying. What are your thoughts now?’ He said: ‘Initially, I as well as the other people of the caravan would get worried due to the abundance of his crying; but gradually, this state also overcame us due to the blessings of his company and we would also cry along with him.’

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says: After this, I went to Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and inquired about my Haji neighbour. Upon this, he said: ‘He was an extremely good companion. He would perform the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recite the Holy Quran in abundance. Moreover, he would shed tears very quickly. May Allah Almighty give you immense reward.’ (Al-Bahr-ul-‘Ameeq, vol. 1, pp. 300; summarized from: ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 118)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that when our righteous predecessors would embark on the journey of Hajj, they would remain engaged in the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the recitation of Holy Quran at all times. They would shed tears out of the fear of Allah Almighty and would serve their companions immensely. Being impressed with their good mannerism, habits and character, those who would be travelling with them would also adopt their habits. From this parable, we also come to know that whenever our righteous predecessors would embark on any kind of journey, even if it was a sacred and reverend journey like the journey of Hajj, they would still remember the journey of the Hereafter. Moreover, they would shed so many tears remembering the Hereafter that their blessed beard would get soaked with tears. On the other hand, there are people like us who let alone thinking about the Hereafter, it seems as if we have considered the purpose of life only to stay in this world forever and remain engrossed in the luxuries of this world. Whereas, wise is the one who contemplates upon the Hereafter for her every action in this world. May Allah Almighty enable us to spend our worldly activities in accordance with Shari’ah and prepare for our Hereafter as well.

“Ghar Dars” (Home Dars) one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourselves with Dawat-e-Islami, a movement of the devotees of Rasool, in order to develop the mindset for the Hereafter, perform numerous virtues and refrain from sins. Moreover, in order to propagate the message of Deen, take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. “Ghar Dars” is also one of the 8 Madani activities. To develop a Madani environment in home, deliver or listen to Dars of Faizan e Sunnat at least once daily (without Na-Mahram). Dars can also be delivered from the booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه (Duration 7 minutes). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessings of Ghar

Dars, sawab (reward) of acquiring knowledge of Deen is attained. At the same time, Ghar Dars is a means to reform our manners and also serves

as an excellent upbringing. Therefore, all Islamic sisters should make the intention to start Ghar Dars and remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat for persuasion and rejoice.

I found the right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah- inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat. The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the fast of Ramadan. In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

4- Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: (The one travelling should) keep performing Zikr and reciting the Holy Quran. However, it should be in such voice that the other person cannot hear him. If someone converses with him, then he should stop the Zikr and recitation of the Holy Quran and listen to him attentively as long as he speaks. When the other person stops talking, then he shall return to his previous state (i.e. start the Zikr etc.) (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 934)

5- It is Sunnah for a traveller to keep five (5) things with her. Therefore, mother of believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states that whenever the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would embark upon a journey, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would definitely keep five (5) things with him. (1) Mirror (2) Kohl bottle (3) Scissors (4) Miswak and (5) Comb (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 20, Hadees 2352; summarized)

6- One shall embark upon a journey after entrusting the religion, lives, wealth, offspring, health and wellbeing of her relatives, friends, loved ones and acquaintances to Allah Almighty.

In order to learn more about travelling and the etiquette of travelling, study two books published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, volume 2, page 885 to 970 and Bahar-e-Shari’at, volume 1, page 1051 to 1067. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will acquire immense beneficial knowledge.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A person said to Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: I have intended to go on the Hajj-pilgrimage. Whom would you like to recommend as my travelling companion so that I could be blessed with his company and reach the Divine court to receive the Divine mercy? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: O brother! If you need a companion, keep the company of the Holy Quran by

reciting it. If you want a comrade, make angels your comrades. If you need any friend, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the owner of the hearts of His friends. If you need provisions, belief in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best provision. Then, considering the Holy Ka’bah to be in front of you, perform Tawaf of it happily. (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 125; ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 101)

Dear Islamic sisters! What a beautiful piece of advice Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave. Would that! We also become practicing upon this advice and become among those who understand the greatness and purposes of the journey of Hajj. It is commonly observed that some people embark on the blessed journey of Hajj and ‘Umrah every year, they behold the blessed Ka’bah and do its Tawaf and after performing other rites of Hajj, they are blessed with visiting the blessed shrine of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, when they return, they indulge in the sinful life as they were previously indulged in and the sins they used to commit remain within them. Such people should contemplate upon the fact that after all, what is the reason? We could not reform ourselves despite going to these sacred places again and again. Is it the case that we performed all these Hajj and ‘Umrahs only for the desire of Nafs, to show-off to people and to be called “Haji Sahib”? Because the hardships of worship are turned into easiness due to the desire of performing numerous Hajjs and ‘Umrahs and being acclaimed as a devout worshipper and abstinent in the sight of people.

As Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Murta’ish رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘I performed numerous Hajj, and most of them were performed without taking any provisions for Hajj. Then I came to know that this is a deception of my Nafs; because once my mother ordered me to fill up and bring a pitcher of water. My Nafs felt unpleasant of her command. Therefore, I realised that during the journey of Hajj, my Nafs supported me just for its own desire and kept me in deception; because if my Nafs had become fully sincere, then why would it (i.e. Nafs) feel extremely difficult to fulfil one right of Shar’iah (i.e. obeying mother) today?’ (Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 135)

reciting it. If you want a comrade, make angels your comrades. If you need any friend, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the owner of the hearts of His friends. If you need provisions, belief in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best provision. Then, considering the Holy Ka’bah to be in front of you, perform Tawaf of it happily. (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 125; ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 101)

Dear Islamic sisters! What a beautiful piece of advice Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave. Would that! We also become practicing upon this advice and become among those who understand the greatness and purposes of the journey of Hajj. It is commonly observed that some people embark on the blessed journey of Hajj and ‘Umrah every year, they behold the blessed Ka’bah and do its Tawaf and after performing other rites of Hajj, they are blessed with visiting the blessed shrine of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, when they return, they indulge in the sinful life as they were previously indulged in and the sins they used to commit remain within them. Such people should contemplate upon the fact that after all, what is the reason? We could not reform ourselves despite going to these sacred places again and again. Is it the case that we performed all these Hajj and ‘Umrahs only for the desire of Nafs, to show-off to people and to be called “Haji Sahib”? Because the hardships of worship are turned into easiness due to the desire of performing numerous Hajjs and ‘Umrahs and being acclaimed as a devout worshipper and abstinent in the sight of people.

As Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Murta’ish رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘I performed numerous Hajj, and most of them were performed without taking any provisions for Hajj. Then I came to know that this is a deception of my Nafs; because once my mother ordered me to fill up and bring a pitcher of water. My Nafs felt unpleasant of her command. Therefore, I realised that during the journey of Hajj, my Nafs supported me just for its own desire and kept me in deception; because if my Nafs had become fully sincere, then why would it (i.e. Nafs) feel extremely difficult to fulfil one right of Shar’iah (i.e. obeying mother) today?’ (Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 135)

Love for status makes the hardship of worship easy

Dear Islamic sisters! This narration does not mean at all that Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Murta’ish رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not listen to his mother; but rather, her command was felt to be unpleasant by his Nafs only. So, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made his mindset that for so many years, I have performed the difficult worship like Hajj just falling prey to the deception of my Nafs.

From this narration, we also come to know how great Madani mindset our righteous predecessors possessed and what an embodiment of humility they used to be. Some people have the habit of meeting other people with extreme politeness and humility but have a rude, immoral and severe heart-breaking attitude at times towards their parents, siblings and household. Why is it so? Because displaying good character among general public becomes a means of fame, whereas there is no special hope of gaining respect and reverence by having good mannerism at home! That’s why these people behave extremely politely amongst general public.

This narration also contains extremely important Madani pearls of admonition for those Islamic sisters as well who present various sacrifices for some Mustahab [preferable] actions but are heedless in fulfilling Faraaid and Wajibat (obligatory acts); for example, obeying parents, failing to provide children with the upbringing according to Shari’ah and those who are negligent themselves in the matter of acquiring the Fard knowledge. The truth is that the virtuous actions through which one attains fame and appreciation, they are performed with ease despite being difficult, because love for status i.e. the desire of attaining fame turns severe hardships into easiness. Love for status contains nothing but destructiveness. For admonition, listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1- Refrain from mixing the obedience of Allah Almighty (i.e. worship) with the love of the praise received from the people; lest all your actions get ruined. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 223, Hadees 1567)

2- Two hungry wolves do not cause as much harm to the herd of goats as much as the love for wealth and status (i.e. love for wealth, fame and respect) does to the religion of a Muslim. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383; ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Self-praising

Dear Islamic sisters! We shall also avoid performing righteous actions to show off to people, be self-acclaimed and gain respect and reverence in the society; and should perform virtuous actions just for the sake of the pleasure of Allah Almighty, attain virtues and make our Hereafter better. Our righteous predecessors would worship Allah Almighty with sincerity and steadfastness even after returning from Hajj and ‘Umrah.

Glad tidings to the young man waiting for the permission to leave

Near the Holy Ka’bah, Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a young man who was continuously offering Salah. Somehow, he found an opportunity to ask the young man, ‘What is the matter! Why are you offering Salah continuously instead of returning?’ The young man replied, ‘How can I go back without being granted the permission to return? I am waiting for the permission.’

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: We were still conversing with each other when a letter fell on to the young man. The letter read, ‘This letter is from Almighty Allah for a thankful and sincere bondman. Go back! Your past and future sins have been forgiven.’ (‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 95; Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 108, summarized)

Let’s now listen to two devotion filled parables of the devotees of Rasool Hajis:

Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Hujjaj (Hajj pilgrims) were engaged in Du’a in the field of ‘Arafat. I saw a young man who was standing remorsefully with his head bowed down. I said: ‘O young man, you too make Du’a.’ He said: ‘I am scared of the fact that the time that was given to me has perhaps passed. How can I make Du’a now?’ I said: ‘You too make Du’a so that Allah Almighty also makes you successful with the blessings of these supplicating people.’ Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: He tried to raise his hands to make Du’a and all of sudden, a state of extreme emotions overcame him, a scream came out of his mouth, he fell down writhing and his soul departed from his body. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 363)

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I saw a young man sitting peacefully in Mina Shareef, whereas people were engaged performing the sacrifice. In the meanwhile, he proclaimed: ‘O my Merciful Lord Almighty! All your servants are busy performing the sacrifice. I too want to sacrifice my life in your court. O my Merciful Lord! Accept me.’ Having said this, he passed his finger over his throat and he fell down writhing. When I went close and looked at him, he had passed away. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 364)

یہ اِک جان کیا ہے اگر ہوں کروڑوں

ترے نام پر سب کو وارا کروں میں

(Saaman-e-Bakhshish, pp. 135)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you hear? This is how a Hajj should be. May Allah Almighty also grant us the tenderness of heart for the sake of these two blessed Hajis. Remember! Sincerity is a condition for the acceptance of every act of worship. Ah! Now due to being distanced away from the knowledge of Deen and good company, most acts of worships end up being

affected by show-off. Generally, as showing off is now a days considered to be compulsory in every matter, similarly, the great blessing like Hajj is also being performed to show-off. For example, after performing Hajj, numerous people call themselves “Haji” and write “Haji” next to their names without any reason or need. You probably would have been surprised that after all, what’s wrong in it? There is no harm in the situation where people call you Haji Sahib themselves.

However, ponder! If calling yourself Haji is not announcing your act of worship yourself, then what else is it? Try to understand this from the following incident: The train was heading towards its destination. Two people were sitting next to each other. One started the conversation by saying: ‘What is your name?’ He replied: “Haji Shafeeq” and what’s your name? The other person asked the question. The first person replied: “Namazi Rafeeq”. Haji Shafeeq was quite shocked to hear the reply. He asked: ‘hmm Namazi Rafeeq! This looks quite an odd name.’ Namazi Rafeeq asked: ‘How many times have you been blessed with performing Hajj?’ Haji Shafeeq replied: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I went for the Hajj pilgrimage just last year. Namazi Rafeeq said: ‘You have been blessed with performing the Hajj of Baytullah Shareef only once and started putting “Haji” with your name openly; whereas, it’s been years since I have been offering 5 times Salah daily. Therefore, if I put the word “Namazi” next to my name, then what is so shocking in this?’

Dear Islamic sisters! Strange is the state nowadays. Showing off has crossed all limits. When a person goes to Hajj, then upon her return, she decorates the whole building with lights and displays a “Hajj Mubarak” board at home without any good intention. In fact, various Hajis take loads of pictures in Ihram. After all, what is this? Is it appropriate for a fled slave to present herself in the court of the Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with such awe and dignity? Not at all! Rather, one shall present herself in the blessed court while crying, trembling and shivering. (Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn, pp. 49)

آنسوؤں کی لڑی بن رہی ہو

اور آہوں سے پھٹتا ہو سینہ

وِردِ لَب ہو ’’مدینہ مدینہ‘‘

جب چلے سُوئے طیبہ سفینہ

جب مدینے میں ہو اپنی آمد

جب میں دیکھوں تِرا سبز گنبد

ہِچکیاں باندھ کر روؤں بے حد

کاش! آجائے ایسا قرینہ

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 188)

Dear Islamic sisters! Those who display a sign of Hajj Mubarak on their homes and spread the news of their Hajj all around without any good intention and just for the charm of their Nafs and desire for attaining fame, a narration based on the highest level of humility is presented for them.

Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left walking for Hajj from Basra. Somebody humbly asked: ‘Why don’t you ride (upon a mean of transport)?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Should a fled slave go to the court of his Merciful Lord riding (upon a mean of transport) in order to reconcile? I feel extremely embarrassed in going to that sacred land.’ (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 267; Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn, pp. 54)

Dear Islamic sisters! It is a great privilege to visit Haramayn Tayyibayn. Therefore, whenever you attain this joyous opportunity, embark on this blessed journey with extreme respect and reverence and by being an embodiment of humility and humbleness. Observe patience upon the difficulties you face on the way. Refrain from sins completely. Gain the blessings of this journey while becoming a complete embodiment of humility and humbleness. When Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Baaqir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for Makkah Mukarramah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا for Hajj and entered Masjid-ul-Haraam, he looked at Baytullah Shareef and started

crying; to the extent that his voice rose while crying. Someone humbly asked: ‘Ya Sayyidi! Everyone is staring at you. Do not cry so much.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Why shall I not cry? Perhaps Allah Almighty will bestow mercy upon me due to my crying and I succeed in His court on the Day of Judgement.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Tawaf and offered Salah at “Maqaam-e-Ibraheem”. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lifted his head from Sajdah, the place of Sajdah was soaked with tears. (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 113)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beneficial Madani pearls for the Hajjans (Islamic sisters)

Dear Islamic sisters! Those fortunate people who are attaining the privilege of performing Hajj this year, may Allah Almighty accept their Hajj, and may Allah Almighty also enable us to see these blessed moments. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned 16 beneficial Madani pearls for Hajis on page No. 28 of Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn . These Madani pearls will prove beneficial for them. Let’s also listen to some of those Madani pearls:

٭ Arrange for the necessary provisions of the journey three four days before the departure. Moreover, also consult with an experienced Haji.

٭ The government prohibits Hajis from taking fruits, cooked food tiffin, sweets and other edible products from their own country.

٭ You will have to walk from your residence in Makkah Mukarramah to Masjid-ul-Haraam, this distance plus the distance of Tawaf including Sa’ee sums up to approximately 7 kilometres. Furthermore, there will be quite a lot of walk in Mina, ‘Arafat and Muzdalifah too. Therefore, make a habit of walking for 45 minutes daily from quite few days before the days of Hajj. (If one can make a permanent habit of this, it

will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be extremely beneficial for health). Otherwise, you may face difficulty in Hajj due to walking too much all of a sudden.

٭ Make a habit of eating less. You will see its advantages yourself. Try to subsist on very light diet especially in the 5 days of Hajj so that you do not need to go for Istinja again and again. There are long queues especially in the bathrooms of Mina, Muzdalifah and ‘Arafat.

٭ Islamic sisters shall not do Tawaf wearing glass bangles. There is a risk of getting yourself injured and others getting injured if the bangles break in the rush of the crowd.

٭ Islamic sisters shall not wear high heel shoes as it will make difficult for them to walk.

٭ Do not keep anyone’s packet without opening and checking it. If any prohibited item is found in there, then you can get in trouble at the airport.

٭ Keep your medicines along with your doctor’s prescription in your shoulder bag in the aeroplane so it can be convenient in case of an emergency.

٭ Apply the Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue and eyes. If you have the habit of talking uselessly, then it will be difficult to refrain from sins such as backbiting, slandering and hurting feelings etc. Similarly, if you do not protect your eyes and keep gazes lowered most of the times, then it will be very difficult to refrain from evil sightedness. One virtuous deed in Haram is equal to one hundred thousand virtuous deeds and one sin is equal to one hundred thousand sins. Haram does not only refer to Masjid-ul-Haraam, but it encompasses the entire boundary of Haram.

٭ To bring a shroud after soaking it in Zamzam water is good as the breeze of Makkah and Madinah will also kiss the shroud. When

squeezing the shroud, ensure that not even a single drop of this sacred water goes into the drain. Squeeze the water onto some plant etc. (One can also sprinkle Zamzam water over the shroud in his own country.)

٭ When performing Tawaf or Sa’ee, the pages of Hajj books are sometimes found lying on the ground. Pick them up, if possible. However, ensure that your back or chest does not face the Ka’bah during the Tawaf. However, do not pick someone’s money or wallet lying on the ground.

٭ Avoid wearing used slippers when making Wudu at a washbasin because water is often spread over the floor near the washbasin. If the slippers are impure, there is the risk of splashes coming onto your clothes.

٭ Usually the flow of water is quite high in the taps of Mina Shareef; so open the tap slowly to remain safe from the splashes of water.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Tafteesh Qira`at-o-Masa’il

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam in more than 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Tafteesh Qira`at-o-Masa’il’. The aim of this Majlis is to investigate the Islamic sisters at home and abroad who are offering different Islamic services under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami. The procedure of this investigation is as follows:

Only the investigating Islamic sisters take the test of Qira’at and Shar’i rulings from Muballighah and Mudarrisah Islamic sisters. The aim of this test is to examine the necessary Islamic and educational abilities of these

Islamic sisters, besides their moral competence so that they can carry out their duties related to serving Islam in a better way.

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of making intentions

Dear Islamic sisters! While bringing the Bayan towards the end, let’s be privileged with listening to the Sunnahs and manners of intention. First, listen to the two sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ اِنَّمَا الاَعْمَالُ بِالنِّیَّات ’ i.e. Actions are dependant upon intentions. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 5, Hadees 1)

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ نِیَّۃُ الْمُؤْمِنِ خَیْرٌ مِّنْ عَمَلِہٖ ’ i.e. Intention of a Muslim is better than his action. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer lit-Tabarani, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

٭ More than one virtuous intention can be made in every permissible action. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ No reward is granted for any virtuous deed without good intention. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ Virtuous intention in a righteous action means that the heart stays focussed towards the action and that action is being performed for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ Intention refers to the intention of heart. Uttering the intention from the tongue while it’s present in the heart is even better. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ The purpose of intention is to separate it from worship or differentiate between worship and a habitual action. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 11)

٭ If intention is not present in the heart, then intention will not be made by merely uttering the words of intention from the tongue. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ The one who is not used to making good intentions will have to work hard in the start to make the habit for it. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ In order to develop the habit of making intentions, one will have to seriously make his own mindset while keeping in view the importance of intentions. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ Sayyiduna Na’eem Bin Hammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say that ‘it is easier for us to have our backs whipped than to make righteous intentions’. (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 25)

٭ Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated: ‘A person is given such rewards upon righteous intention that are not even given to him on virtuous action, because there is no ostentation in intention.’ (Jahannam mayn Lay Jaanay Walay A’maal, vol. 1, pp. 152)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

