Muballigha must read the bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

DISADVANTAGES OF NON-OBSERVANCE OF PURDAH

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Azeez Dabbaagh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is beyond any doubt that reciting Salat upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most superior action of all the acts of worship. This is a Zikr of those blessed angels who dwell in the surroundings of Jannah and when they recite Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, by the blessings of this, Jannah becomes spacious. (Al-Abreez, vol. 2, pp. 338)

جائیں نہ جب تک غُلام خُلد ہے سب پر حرام مِلک تو ہے آپ کا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

Brief explanation: O the Owner of Jannah, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What a great elevated status you possess that nobody can enter Jannah before your Ummah. You are the owner of Jannah, then how can anybody enter it without your permission.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Embodiment of modesty, purdah-observing Sahabiyyah’s journey to Madinah

A person from Bani Khuzaah, the ally tribe of Muslims, was going somewhere on his camel. On the way, he was astonished to see a Purdah-observing woman, who was the embodiment of modesty, travelling on foot in a deserted place at a little distance from Makkah Mukarramah. He doubted that the pious woman would be one of the Muslims who were stopped by the people of Makkah from going to Madinah. When the person was sure after asking the woman, he did not like the devotee of the Beloved Rasool travelling all alone. He discontinued his journey and offered his camel to the purdah-observing lady and made a firm intention to take her to sacred Madinah. The Purdah-observing lady, who was the embodiment of modesty, also accepted it considering it to be the help from Ghayb [unseen]. Thus the silent journey began which keeps alive the golden memories in the history that can even be appreciated today. How great was the courage of the lady who was filled with the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم travelling all alone to Madinah! She told the story of her journey in this manner:

During the journey, that person did not talk to me throughout the way. When rest time would come, he would sit the camel and get himself away and then I would dismount from the camel’s saddle and sit under a shady tree. He then would tether the camel away from me under any other tree and would himself rest there. When the journey would restart, he would place the saddle on the camel and leave it near me; after leaving it to me he would get away from me. When I got on the camel, he would quietly come and hold the nose-halter and would start to walk towards sacred Madinah. In this way, even during the journey I continued to wear the veil and did not face any problem in observing Purdah. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant him good reward as he showed very good character! When I reached Madinah, I, first of all, reached the blessed home of Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . I was still wearing a veil due to which Sayyidah Umm-e-Salamah did not recognize me. I took off the veil and introduced myself to her. When I told her as to how I migrated alone, she became surprised and asked me astonishingly: Have you really migrated alone for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? I admitted. We were just talking. Meanwhile, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also came. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم welcomed me after knowing the entire situation and praised my act of migration for the sake of Islam. (Safat-ul-Safah, vol. 1, pp. 39)

یہی مائیں ہیں جن کی گود میں اِسلام پَلتا تھا اِسی غَیرت سے اِنساں نُور کے سانچے میں ڈھلتا تھا

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The purdah-observing lady that has been mentioned in the above-mentioned parable was a famous Sahabiyyah, the embodiment of modesty, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom Bint-e-Uqbah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She embraced Islam in Makkah Mukarramah. Since she could not afford a conveyance for herself due to being poor, she decided to migrate on foot. Having reached sacred Madinah she took the oath of allegiance from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Harisah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had Nikah with her in Madinah. (Al-Isti’aab, vol. 4, pp. 508) The way Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا continued to protect her modesty during such a long journey and observed purdah, surely it was her distinctive quality. She got its reward from the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in such a way that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was pleased by her migration and observance of Purdah.

Is it permissible for a woman to travel alone?

Here, also keep this ruling in mind that the journey of migration which Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا made from Makkah to Madinah Munawarrah alone and without any Mahram was in accordance with Shari’ah. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A refugee woman and the woman who gets released from the prison of unbelievers are exempted from the commandment [that says women are prohibited from travelling alone]. These both women can travel alone to Dar-us-Salam without any Mahram, or rather this journey is Wajib for them. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 4, pp. 90)

Therefore no one should understand from this parable that it is permissible for a woman to make such a long journey all alone as it is Haraam for a woman to go to a place that takes three days without her husband or Mahram. Even if a woman has provisions for the journey of Hajj, but she is not accompanied by her husband or any reliable Maharam, she cannot go for Hajj. If she goes, she will be a sinner, though the Fard Hajj will be performed.

(Parday kay baray mayn suwal jawab, pp. 163)

It is stated in Bahar-e-Shari’at: It is impermissible for a woman to travel to a place that takes three days or more, or rather travel to a place that takes even one day without any Mahram. She cannot even travel with a minor or a fool. It is necessary to go with an adult Mahram or her husband. For the Mahram it is necessary that he should not be a grave sinner, committing sins openly and an unreliable person. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, Part. 4, vol. 1, pp. 752)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How blessed the age was in which everyone, whether men or women, were filled with the Madani passion for protecting their gaze and observing Shar’i purdah (veil) strictly and would protect the honour of one another. But alas! As we are getting away from the blessed age of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ignorance and immodesty are increasing more and more. Besides other evils, the disasters of observing no purdah, immodesty and unlawful gaze have destroyed our society. Different ways are being chosen to destroy purdah and increase closeness between strange women and men. In every walk of worldly affairs, men and women are seen together. Today, purdah is considered to be an obstacle in the way of progress. Following non-Muslims the conspiracies which are being organized against the observance of purdah in the name of freedom of expression and the way our beautiful religion Islam is being presented after being distorted, are not surely hidden from any wise person. On the other hand, electronic, print and social media are busy promoting immodesty and obscenity with all their resources.

مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ, now conditions have become so painful that purdah-observing families are discouraged by being called the people having old notions and

the ones who are conservative (the ones who do not change themselves as per the requirements of the time). On the other hand, those who promote non-observance of purdah and obscenity are admired and appreciated very much. The men who are strict in observance of purdah are made fun of by being called Mullah and women by being called Mullani. If a purdah- observing Islamic sister goes to a party arranged for women in Madani burqah, so some say, what are you wearing? Take it off; some say, let it be, we know you are very purdah-observing; some say: What style are you following, the world has advanced significantly! Now stop observing this purdah! There is not much strictness in religion ‘purdah should be observed only in the heart’. اَلْاَمَانْ وَالْحَفِیْظ

How is it to say, ‘purdah should be observed only in the heart’?

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ was asked a question: What is the truth behind the statement, ‘purdah should be observed only in the heart.’ In reply to the question Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: It is a very big and brutal attack by Satan. This statement denies the Quranic Ayahs in which we have been commanded to cover up the apparent body. In Ayah 33 of Surah Al-Ahzaab part 22, it is stated:

وَ قَرْنَ فِیْ بُیُوْتِكُنَّ وَ لَا تَبَرَّجْنَ تَبَرُّجَ الْجَاهِلِیَّةِ الْاُوْلٰى

And remain in your houses and do not unveil yourselves like the unveiling prevalent in the times of ignorance.

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)] (Parah 22, Surah Al-Ahzab, Ayah 33)

(Remember!) The one who totally denies the purdah of body and says, ‘Purdah be observed only in the heart’ has lost her faith. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The thought that no matter how the appearance is, but the heart should be clean, is wrong. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: If his heart had been right, his appearance would have become right itself.

(Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 605) (Parday kay baray mayn suwal jawab, pp. 193-195)

دیدے پردہ بَہُو بیٹیوں کو ماؤں بہنوں سَبھی عورَتوں کو

ہم سَبھی کو حقیقی حَیا کی میرے مَولیٰ تُو خَیرات دیدے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Islam is a universal religion and favourite religion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Islam guides us perfectly in every walk of life. Islam teaches us to live with respect. If we follow the teachings of Islam, it will please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Islam promotes good habits and modesty. Islam closes the doors leading towards evils. It is Islam which has ensured that the honour of woman be protected by keeping her in purdah. Islam teaches men and women to lower their gazes. Islam commands us to refrain from immodesty, obscenity, unveiling, unlawful gaze and adultery.

Immodesty is Haraam!

In Ayah 33 of Surah A’raaf part 8, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

قُلْ اِنَّمَا حَرَّمَ رَبِّیَ الْفَوَاحِشَ مَا ظَهَرَ مِنْهَا وَ مَا بَطَنَ

Say, ‘My Lord has forbidden the indecencies, the apparent among them and the hidden

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah. 8, Surah Al-A’raaf, Ayah 33)

Dear Islamic sisters! Just ponder that Quran is preventing us from immodesty . When we have believed in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is the matter of wisdom that we act upon the blessed Sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well. But what has happened to us? We are not ready to act upon these commandments. Our feet and hands are advancing towards immodesty; our eyes are looking at immodesty! It is very difficult to understand how this spoiled society can be persuaded to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Alas! Now the time

has come when everyone is busy surpassing one another in committing the sins of unveiling and immodesty. Whether it is personal matter or collective ceremonies, street or market everywhere modesty is being destroyed and immodesty is being promoted. Whoever we see seems to be the ardent lover of immodesty. Just take the example of current marriages which from beginning to end have become a collection of spending money uselessly, unlawful gaze, mixed gathering of men and women, immodesty, dancing and singing, drinking wine, obscenity, unveiling, mingling of non-Mahrams, impermissible fashion and other impermissible and Haraam acts.

Dancing on the tunes of songs, making or getting someone to make a movie or photos of the ceremonies full of immodesty and indecencies and arranging functions have now become part and parcel of our marriages.

It is very surprising that the woman who feels shy coming without purdah even in front of her family Mahrams such as father or real brothers etc., and does not go out of home without burqa and hijab (veil), is seen adorned in a proud way, displaying her body and dress, leaving-aside the veil of modesty, bluntly letting non-mahram make her movie and pictures in front of everyone without any hesitation and breaking every record of immodesty publicly on the occasion of wedding.

Whereas the immodest way bridegroom and bride are made to enter the marriage hall and are made to sit in front of non-mahram are extremely bad. In short, it seems that today the concept of modesty has completely vanished from our society. The biggest reason for it is that Muslims have ceased adopting Islamic culture and embraced western culture. Islamic culture lays stress on purifying the heart and gaze and preserving modesty. It has never given such so-called freedom. That is why Umm-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyidatuna Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had seen (the adornment) that women have now invented, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have forbidden them (to come into the Masjid).

(Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 300, Hadees 869)

Regarding the explanation of this blessed Hadees, Allamah Badruddin ‘Ayni Hanafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: If Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had seen the way women adorn themselves, especially urban women of this era who have invented non-Shar’i ways and introduced bad innovations to their adornment and appearance, she would have very strongly condemned women. (Umdat-ul-Qaari, vol. 4, pp. 649, Taht-al-Hadees 869)

کریں اسلامی بہنیں شَرعی پردہ عطا اِن کو حیا شاہِ اُمَم ہو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become obvious that women, in every era, brought something new in the name of fashion, which was definitely condemned by the pious women of that era by considering it to be their duty. Let’s listen to three faith-refreshing parables of the blessed life of a few pious and purdah-observing women from the history of Islam and get some Madani pearls from them.

(1) A Lady-Saint observing veil from lion:

Sayyiduna Asmaee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I set out with the intention to perform Hajj taking the route of Syria (with a caravan). During the journey, a very big and frightful lion appeared and became an obstacle in the way. I asked the person next to me: Isn’t there anyone who removes the lion from the way with a sword? He replied: I do not know such a person; however, there is a woman who can remove it even without a sword. We then stood up and reached the saddle of a riding-animal nearby. That person called out: O daughter! Get off the saddle and get this lion away from us. A voice came from inside: O my respected father! Do you like it that a lion sees me [because] it is male and I am female? But O dear father! Go to the lion and say to it: My daughter Fatima says Salam to you and makes you swear to the One Who neither sleeps, nor feels drowsy! You leave our way. Sayyiduna Imam Asmaee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! No sooner had she

finished her conversation than I saw that the lion was returning back in front of us. (Hikayatayn aur Nasihatayn, pp. 435)

(2) Lost son, not modesty

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Khallad’s son was martyred in a battle. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهَا came wearing a veil to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم to enquire about her son. Someone commented surprisingly, ‘You are still wearing a veil even at such a time!’ She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهَا replied, ‘I certainly have lost my son, but not modesty.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 9, Hadees 2488)

(3) Thread of Daman (the lower part of a qameez / shirt)

It is stated in Akhbar-ul-Akhyar: Once, there was a severe drought. Despite abundant Du’as made by people, it did not rain. Sayyiduna Baba Nizamuddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه held a thread of his blessed mother’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا Daman in his hand and humbly said, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This thread is from the Daman of the woman who has never been seen by any non-Mahram man. My Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For its sake, shower rain of mercy!’ He had hardly finished the Du’a when the clouds of mercy covered the sky and it started raining heavily.

(Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 294)

بے پردَگی کا خاتِمہ ہو عورَتوں کو دے زیور حیا و شرم کا یاربِّ مُصْطَفٰے

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you heard, how the women in the past had been filled with the passion for following Islamic teachings and observing Shar’i purdah, they used to avoid coming without veil in front of the beasts, let alone humans. May I be sacrificed for the great mother who instead of crying loudly, tearing her clothes and becoming immodest after getting the news of the martyrdom of her son, showed patience and forbearance and did not become heedless of the importance of purdah even for a moment. Whereas the respected mother رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا of Sayyiduna Baba Nizamuddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه observed purdah from non-Mahrams throughout her life till she departed her life in the

same state. Will our Islamic sisters not act upon the life history of these pious women? Will they still continue to wander in the streets and markets without any purdah? Won’t they repent of the sins of becoming informal with non-Mahram relatives and observing no purdah from them? Will they still continue to talk to non-Mahrams? Will the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be still committed on the occasion of wedding ceremonies etc., in the name of enjoyment? Shall we still continue to remain silent after seeing our family members committing the evil act of not observing purdah? Remember! The people who despite having power do not prevent their women and Mahrams from non-observance of purdah are Dayyus and it is Haraam for Dayyus to enter Paradise. (Musnad Imam Ahamd, vol. 2, pp. 351) So we should not only protect ourselves from the evil of non-observance of purdah and observe Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes and other body parts, but we should also keep persuading our family members to abstain from non-observance of purdah.

Madani In’amaat — one of the 8 Madani activities:

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to get rid of the evil of non-observance of purdah, attain the Madani thought of observing Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes and other body parts, become the embodiment of modesty, teach the method of giving mind-set of observing purdah to your family members,

Remember! One of the best means of attaining good company is also to associate yourself with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Please remain associated with this Madani environment all the time and take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah; One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. How many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling out the blanks given in the booklet on the first day of every Madani month. Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, ‘Jannat kay talabgaron kay liye Madani Guldasta’ published by Maktaba tul Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make efforts to have the privilege of

being Ajmeri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani Ina’am of making an individual effort distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani Inama’at every month and try to get them back as well the next month.

Madani Channel made me wear a Madani Burqa’!

Dear Islamic sisters! What can I say about the benefits of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Channel! This channel is playing a vital role in reforming Muslims. Here is a summary of a statement by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi): There was a time when I did not wear a Burqa (veil), but then Dawat-e-Islami gave us the huge gift of ‘Madani Channel’. As a result of watching it, the father of my children and I became punctual in Salah.

One day, I listened to a Sunnah-inspiring speech about ‘ The Importance of Veil ’ on Madani Channel. When the father of my children heard it, he was so inspired that he encouraged me to start wearing a Madani veil and forbade me from going to the market etc., unnecessarily. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Channel, I repented of unveiling and now I do not wear a beautiful, or مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, head-revealing and men-attracting veil, in fact, I only wear a fully Islamic Madani veil.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Why is purdah necessary for woman?

Dear Islamic sisters! The commandments Islam has given to its believers are definitely full of wisdom. However, our low intellects are unable to understand the pearls of wisdom. Islam has given clear instructions about observing purdah from non-Mahrams which contain countless pearls of wisdom. Let’s try to understand the importance of purdah through an example. If the sweet is kept in a plate and then the plate is covered by something, it will stay safe from the flies. But if it is not covered, flies will land on it. So if someone makes a complaint, why flies are landing on it, will be a very foolish thing because the sweet is such a thing which has to be covered in order to protect

it from the flies. Otherwise it is very difficult to prevent flies from landing on it. Similarly, woman who is an object of concealment if kept in purdah, she can stay safe from many social problems and she can protect herself from wicked immoral people. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 6, pp. 624) In addition, let’s listen to the benefits which can be obtained by observing purdah and feel proud of the teachings of Islam.

Worldly and religious benefits of purdah!

Purdah is a source of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Purdah is a sign of faith, recognition of Islam and recognition of Muslim women. Purdah is a sign of modesty and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes modesty very much. Purdah protects a woman from the evil of Satan. A modest and purdah-observing woman is given great respect in Islamic society. Purdah protects a woman from the evil eye and Fitnah (conflict) and prevents her from the path of evil. The society having purdah observing women stays safe from corruption; it brings peace to the society. Purdah increases the dignity of a woman and protects her beauty. (Sirat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 6, pp. 624)

مِری کاش!ساری بہنیں،رہیں مَدَنی بُرقعوں میں ہو کرم شہِ زمانہ مَدَنی مدینے والے

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! The way Islam teaches women to observe purdah from non-Mahrams, similarly, it also gives the mind-set to men to observe purdah and protect their eyes from non-Mahram women.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: After the first gaze do not direct the second gaze (i.e. if suddenly your gaze falls on a woman unintentionally, avert it immediately and do not gaze again) that is, first gaze is permissible and second gaze is not permissible. (Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 358, Hadees 2149) In regard to the matter of protecting eyes, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to have a great Madani mind-set. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it.

Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes:

Sayyiduna Hassaan bin Abbi Sinan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went for Eid Salah. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came back, his wife asked: How many women have you seen today? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained silent. When she firmly insisted he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: From leaving this house to coming back to you I kept on looking towards my toes. (Kitab-ul-Wara’ Musu’at Ibn Abi Dunya, vol. 1, pp. 205)

بولوں نہ فضول اور رہیں نیچی نگاہیں آنکھوں کا زباں کا دے خدا قُفلِ مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The way observing purdah has its blessings, similarly, non-observance of purdah has many evils and also has many disadvantages. Let’s listen to a few disadvantages of non-observance of purdah so that we not only protect ourselves from non-observance of purdah, but we can also persuade our family members to avoid non-observance of purdah by telling these disadvantages.

Disadvantages of non-observance of purdah:

Non-observance of purdah is disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Non-observance of purdah is a destructive major sin. Non-observance of purdah results in deprivation of Divine mercy and inflict of curse. Non-observance of purdah is an act leading to Hell. Non-observance of purdah brings about darkness on the Day of Judgment. Non-observance of purdah is a sign of hypocrisy. Non-observance of purdah is a bad act that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like. Non-observance of purdah is a source of spreading obscenity in the society. Non-observance of purdah brings about disgrace. Non-observance of purdah is a satanic act. Non-observance of purdah reminds us of pre-Islamic era of ignorance. Non-observance of purdah is against the nature. Non-observance of purdah brings disgrace and disrespect to human civilization. Non-observance of purdah is a root cause of countless evils. Non-observance of purdah brings about the end of modesty and sense of honour. Non-observance of purdah is a major source of destroying the

youth. Non-observance of purdah sometimes brings about discord among families. Non-observance of purdah plays a vital role in promoting the fornication of eyes. (Sahabiyyat aur Pardah, pp. 38) Let’s listen to an admonitory parable of a girl about her dreadful end and repent of non-observance of purdah forever.

She tore the shroud and sat up!

On page 280 of his book, ‘Question and answer about purdah’, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has mentioned:

Probably it was the last Friday of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 1414 AH when I met a young man at night in a large Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ at Korangi (Bab-ul- Madinah, Karachi). He swore that this story was true: A young daughter of one of my relatives suddenly passed away. When we returned after burying her, her father recalled that he by chance left his hand bag containing important documents inside her grave with her dead body. So the grave had to be dug up. As soon as the slab was removed from the grave, we screamed with fear. The dead body of a young girl that we just buried in a shroud, had torn her shroud and sat up, bent like a bow. Her legs were tied with her hair and many unknown small terrifying living creatures were stuck to her.

Having seen this fearful sight we were left speechless with terror. We threw the soil back over her grave somehow with difficulty and ran away without taking out the bag. When I got home, I asked my relatives about her wrongdoing . They told me that she did not use to commit any sin which was considered outrageous these days, however, just like other girls she was also fashionable and did not observe purdah. Just a few days before her death, she attended a wedding, like other women, without any purdah with a fancy haircut by adorning herself. (Parday kay baray mayn suwal jawab, pp. 280)

اے مِری بہنو! سدا پردہ کرو تم گلی کُوچوں میں مت پھرتی رہو

ورنہ سُن لو قَبْر میں جب جاؤ گی سانپ بچّھو دیکھ کر چِلّاؤ گی

Won’t our Islamic sisters, who make excuses after being tempted by Satan, get the admonitory lesson after listening to the terrible incidence of this unfortunate fashion loving girl? The excuses they make are: It is my compulsion, no one at our home observes purdah; we have to see the custom of our family as well; our entire family is educated; no one even sends a proposal of marriage for a simple and purdah-observing girl, etc. Will family customs and compulsions of Nafs bring salvation for them from the torment of grave and Hell? Will they succeed in achieving salvation by mentioning such so-called compulsions in the Divine court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? If not and surely not, then they have to repent of non-observance of purdah at all costs. Remember! The spouse written on Loh-e-Mahfooz will become his/her life partner and if it is not written, marriage will not take place. It can be noticed most often that many educated modern un-married girls become the victim of death in no time, or rather sometimes it also happens that the bride departs this life just before her traditional departure and instead of taking her to a room illuminated with lights and filled with fragrance, she is buried in a narrow and dark grave filled with insects.

تُو خوشی کے پُھول لے گی کب تلک؟ تُو یہاں زندہ رہے گی کب تلک؟

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Tarbiyyat Centre for Islamic sisters:

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is continuously making efforts to promote modesty, stop the flood of non-observance of purdah and completely destroy the evil like immodesty. For this purpose, Dawat-e-Islami has established different departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Tarbiyyat Gah for Islamic Sisters’. This Majlis offers different courses of 12 days to Islamic sisters such as Madani Kaam course, Islah e A’amaal course, Special Islamic Sister Course, Faizan-e-Quran Course, Faizan-e-Namaz Course. In these courses, Fiqh, Tajweed, beliefs, Sunnahs and manners, importance and method of performing 8 Madani activitiesof Zayli Halqah, method of performing Madani activities

amongst special Islamic sisters, Faizan-e-Surah Noor (Tafseer), Sunnahs and manners, rulings on Salah and specific Surahs are taught. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable ‘Majlis Madani Tarbiyyat Gah for Islamic Sisters’ to serve Islam with more love and devotion.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّ م

تم جانتے ہو کیا ہے یہ دعوتِ اسلامی فیضانِ مدینہ ہے فیضانِ مدینہ ہے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Evil acts of Valentine’s Day:

Dear Islamic sisters! At present, the deeds of Muslims are getting very bad. They are not following Islamic teachings. They feel very proud of adopting the habits and styles of non-Muslims; especially they spend too much money, waste time and do not feel ashamed in committing sins like fixing unlawful gaze, drinking wine and committing adultery in order to celebrate their special days. Such indecent acts are also openly carried out on the occasion of ‘Valentine’s Day’.

On this day, people commit sins abundantly violating all Shar’i boundaries. Young boys and girls meet one another immodestly without any purdah. They commit openly or secretly every kind of act from exchanging presents to indecent and obscene acts within their reach. It is commonly heard and seen that the rush at gift shops and floral shops increase and the customers who buy these items are young boys and girls. On Valentine’s Day, the bookings of hotels increase compared to other days. مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ, the business of wine booms, whereas many acts of non-observance of purdah and immodesty are committed at beaches.

The countries in which non-Muslims are free from religious and ethical restrictions and in which the indecent acts are given every kind of legal

protection, also sometimes get worried due to the disturbance and agitation of this day. Sometimes little angry protests are also organized against this day. But it is extremely regretful that many Muslims who celebrate this day immodestly like non-Muslims, disobeying the Commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only increase sins in their Book of deeds, but they also pollute and spoil the purity of Muslim society by committing sins openly.

Unlawful gaze, non-observance of purdah, obscenity, meeting of strange (non-mahram) young boys and girls, laughter and jokes, exchanging gifts to strengthen this impermissible relation and the acts of adultery are the deeds which are committed intensely on this day. No Muslim may have any shadow of doubt about these satanic acts being impermissible and Haraam because these acts are proved to be Haraam by the blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran and the clear blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We, therefore, should avoid all such evil acts and perform the deeds which please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to act upon them!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic sisters, in today’s speech, we have heard that:

1- Purdah is the sign of faith.

2- Purdah saves us from [the paths of] evil.

3-Purdah is the recognition of Islam.

4-Purdah increases the honour of a woman.

5-Purdah is the protector of woman’s honour; whereas non-observance of purdah incurs the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Non-observance of purdah causes social destruction. The

prohibition of non-observance of purdah is also stated in the Holy Quran. Non-observance of purdah is a satanic act. Non-observance of purdah is the cause of the destruction of young generation. Non-observance of purdah promotes immodesty. The honour of a woman is in danger due to non-observance of purdah.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect all the Muslims from the destruction of non-observance of purdah!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

Madani pearls about drinking water

1-Two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a-Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing away from the glass). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ when you finish.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

b-The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breathe into the vessel or to blow into it.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breathe into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breath, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should

breathe moving the mouth away from the vessel (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any Ayah of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc., with the intention of cure.

2-Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

3-Drink water in small sips, large sips cause damage to the liver.

4-Drink water in three breaths.

5-Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

6-Look into the utensil before drinking water ensuring that nothing harmful is in it. (Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

7-Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ after drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

8-The leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

9-The leftover of a Muslim is a cure [1] .

10-After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will still be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

