Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Farooq-e-A’zam’s Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: حَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَيَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَكُمْ تَبْلُغُنِيْ i.e. Wherever you may reside, recite Salat ‘upon me, because your [recitation of] Salat reaches me.’ (Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Raqm. 2729)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and attain reward, let’s first make good intentions. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

-1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

-2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

-3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

-4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

-5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

-7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

-8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

-9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! All blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم hold a unique and matchless status . All of them are the stars of guidance and beloveds of Allah Almighty and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, some of them have superiority over the others. The Khulafa e Rashideen [four Rightly Guided Caliphs] are superior to all other companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . The second خلیفۂ راشد (Rightly -guided) caliph among these caliphs is Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘UmarFarooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away on 1 st Muharram-ul-Haraam. In this relation, let’s be privileged to listen to one of the bright aspects of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq’s life, ‘Devotion towards the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’.

Farooq-e-A’zam gladdened the blessed heart of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was once very sad and grieved, present in his blessed home. I came to his servant and said ‘seek permission from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for my entry’. The servant came back and said, ‘I have mentioned you in the blessed court of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ A little while later, I once again said, ‘seek permission from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for me.’ He went in and returned, saying, ‘I have mentioned you to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ When I returned without saying anything, the servant called me, saying, ‘Please come inside. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given you permission.’

Therefore, I went inside and presented [the greetings of] Salam to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting on a mat in a leaning position. Marks of the mat were clearly visible on his blessed side. In order to please him, I said while standing, ‘ اَسۡتَاۡنِسُ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه ’ ‘ Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I want to talk to you and cheer you up. When we, the people of Quraysh, used to be in Makkah e Mukarramah, we used to have power over our women, but when we arrived in Madinah e Munawwarah, we faced such nation that the men (here) are overpowered by

women.’ Listening to this, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled. I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I went to Hafsah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and said to her, ‘Do not envy your companion (Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), for she is more beautiful than you and beloved to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Listening to this, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled again. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-un-Nikah, vol. 3, pp. 460, Hadees 5191)

Dear Islamic sisters! Ponder over this parable that Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ could not tolerate Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم falling into any kind of grief or sadness. That’s why, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ intended to cheer him up and eventually succeeded in his purpose too and the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled at his efforts. Think seriously! On one hand, we observe the state of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who become sad when they find the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grieved and would try to please him in many ways, and on the other hand is our miserable state that we hurt the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by spending our days and nights in committing sins but we do not even realise this at all.

Remember! Undoubtedly, even today Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes the entire situation and deeds of the people of his Ummah. Therefore, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘My life is better for you, you talk to me and I talk to you; and my (apparent) demise is also better for you. Your deeds will be presented to me, when I will see good deeds, I will praise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and when I will see bad deeds, I will ask forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for you.’

(Al-Musnad-ul-Bazzaar, Hadees 1925)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of every Ummati and every action of his. The blessed eyes of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can view everything whether in dark, brightness, hidden, apparent, existing or extinct. The one whose eyes have been referred to as ‘ البَصَر مَازَاغ ’ in the Holy Quran, the power of his sight is beyond our imagination. We see everything in our imagination and dream, and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes everything with his blessed eyes. Sufia [Mystics] (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) say: Here, actions

refer to the actions of heart as well. Therefore, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of every state of our hearts. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol.1, pp. 439)

Dear Islamic sisters! We have learnt that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of all the actions of his Ummatis. So he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also be getting pleased upon looking at our virtuous deeds and saddened upon looking at our evil actions. Therefore, in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we should carry out more and more virtuous deeds, recite Salat and Salam abundantly upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, act upon the Sunnahs of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and also teach them to others so that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could be pleased with us and intercede for the sinful Ummatis on the Day of Judgement and also take us into Paradise along with him.

یا الٰہی جب زبانیں باہر آئیں پیاس سے صاحبِ کوثر شہِ جود و عطا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی گرمِیِ محشر سے جب بھڑکیں بدن دامنِ محبوب کی ٹھنڈی ہوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی نامۂ اعمال جب کُھلنے لگیں عیب پوشِ خلق ستّارِ خطا کا ساتھ ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

The second caliph, successor of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Umar’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ Kunyah is ‘Abu Hafs’ and his title is ‘Farooq-e-A’zam’. According to one narration, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the 40 th person to embrace Islam in the sixth year of the proclamation of Prophet hood due to the Du’a of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That’s why, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is referred to as مُتَمِّمُ الْاَربَعِین, i.e. “one completing the count of 40”. By his acceptance of Islam, Muslims became extremely happy and they received such a great support that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah openly with Muslims inside the sacred Haram. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ participated in Islamic wars with great bravery

and contributed in all strategic decisions headed by the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as a faithful minister, advisor and a loyal devotee. The first caliph, Ameer ul Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ chose Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as the caliph after him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ executed all the responsibilities of caliphate marvellously and proved to be a deserving successor of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Finally, one accursed person attacked Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with a dagger during Salat-ul-Fajr. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was fatally injured and embraced martyrdom on the third day of the attack. At the time of his blessed demise, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was 63 years old.

Sayyiduna Suhayb رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led his funeral Salah and this illustrious companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ of the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was laid to rest beside Ameer ul Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who is resting beside the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the blessed Raudah. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah fi Manaqib Al-Asharah, vol. 1, pp. 285, 408, 418)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ shower mercy upon him and forgive us without accountability for his sake!

شہادت اے خدا عطا ر کو دیدے مدینے میں

کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It is natural for one to have love towards her parents, siblings, children, wealth and property. If any person doesn’t care about any of her relatives or family members and stops loving them, then it would still not damage her Iman and her Iman will still remain intact because Iman does not entail their love and believing in them. Whereas, embracing faith upon the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, honouring him and having [devotional]

love for him is ‘ جُزۡوِ لَا يَنۡفَك ’ i.e., the basic necessity of Iman . Therefore, it is essential for a true believer to have devotion towards the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than every relation and everything of this universe.

Dearer than everything

It is stated in Hadees No. 6632 of Sahih Bukhari: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: We were sitting in the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم w as holding the hand of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in his hand. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ كُلِّ شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ i.e., O Rasool of Rahmah, (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! You are dearer to me than everything except my own self. The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ لَا وَالَّذِي نَفۡسِي بِيَدِهِ حَتّٰى اَكُونَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡكَ مِنۡ نَفۡسِكَ ’ No Umar! By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, (you will not have complete love) until I am dearer to you than even your own self. Then Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ وَاللّٰهِ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ O Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You are dearer to me than even my own self.

Listening to this, the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ الۡآنَ يَا عُمَرُ ’ Now, O ‘Umar, (your love is accomplished) . (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp.283, Hadees 6632)

Dear Islamic sisters! This command is not just specific to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ alone, but it is for each and every Muslim who will come until this world exists, because the love of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a thing without which our faith cannot be completed at all. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

لَايُؤۡمِنُ اَحَدُكُمۡ حَتّٰي اَكُوۡنَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ وَّالِدِہٖ وَ وَلَدِہٖ وَ النَّاسِ اَجۡمَعِيۡن

None of you can become a true believer [Mu`min] until I am dearer to him than his parents, children and all the people.

(Sahih Bukhari, pp. 17, Hadees 14, vol. 1)

Undoubtedly, this is how a Muslim should have reverence and love for the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because this is the most valuable asset of her life.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Madani Visit”, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to increase the passion of love and devotion towards the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم in your hearts, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, for further progression in righteous activities, actively take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the eight Madani activities is ‘Madani visit’, through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their houses. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani visit’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least elderly woman) should make ‘Madani visit’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister living in Taxila (District Rawalpindi, Punjab) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being

angry and irritable. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The way of communication of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attain the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the blessed voices of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The deep devotion of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is beyond any description! He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would become restless whenever he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remembered the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would shed tears due to the separation from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His slave, Sayyiduna Aslam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, when Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would speak about the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would become restless and begin to weep out of the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and say, ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most merciful among the

people, a father to the orphan and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the bravest person amongst the people. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a luminous face, sweet and pleasant fragrance and according to the blessed lineage, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most revered. None is like him from the predecessors and successors.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 10, pp. 16, Hadees 33)

Farooq-e-A’zam’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ concept of love

Dear Islamic sisters! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is our Master. That’s why true love and reverence for our master should always remain in our heart. The one who has true love for his master never forgets his favours, praises his master in front of everyone with great pride and loves the feeling of being his slave. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a true devotee of Rasool, one who was guaranteed Paradise and possessed a high rank amongst the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would himself feel proud of being a slave and servant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was appointed as caliph, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ addressed them from the pulpit:

كُنۡتُ مَعَ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَسَلَّمَ فَكُنۡتُ عَبۡدَهٗ وَخَادِمَهُ

I have been blessed with the company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, I remained his slave and servant. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, pp. 332)

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ claim of being the slave of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not just his lip service, rather, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was really a true slave of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ acted upon the Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life. But alas! We declare that we are the slaves of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and keep on claiming but our character shows contrary to this. Remember! To love the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not only mean attending congregations of Zikr o Na’at, Meelad processions

and reciting Na’at loudly or chanting slogans loudly whilst raising our hands, remaining awake all the night long and then sleeping without offering Salat-ul-Fajr, missing the five times Salahs in normal days and even the Jumu’ah Salah, showing ill-manners and other evils instead of treating others with courtesy; then how could these actions lead to sincere and accomplished love and devotion? Whereas, true love and devotion demands that while fulfilling the rights, we must acknowledge the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be the most Eminent and Highest Ranked of all the people. This would be achieved when we accept the Deen brought by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, respect and revere the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and prioritise the pleasure of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم over everyone and everything, whether it is our own self, offspring, parents, relatives and loved ones or wealth and possessions.

(Ashi’a-ul-Lam’aat, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 50)

Moreover, also keep making efforts to refrain from what the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us and if any wrongdoing is committed due to human instinct, then repent truly with the hope of being forgiven and being privileged with the blessed intercession of Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and never even have any such thought in future to commit the same sin again.

Let’s make a true and sincere intention that from now on, we will not miss any Salah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, rather, after repenting, we would also offer all our past missed Salah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; we would keep on refraining from sins such as lying, backbiting, tale-telling, breaking promises and deceiving etc., اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; we would abandon fashion and adopt Sunnahs اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we would watch Madani Channel اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! One of the signs of the true love is also that the one who has devotion deeply loves everything that is associated and attached with the beloved. How remarkable and excellent is the devotional love of Ameer-ul-

Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the most Renowned and Revered Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he not only had true devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but also had profound devotion and love to the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم descendants, wives and companions; in fact he would even love and revere even every such thing which would have any kind of association to the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This very thing is required for true and sincere devotion. The blessed biography of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ contains plenty of beautiful parables which reveal his profound devotional love to the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to one such beautiful parable.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in the 1 st and 2 nd Ayah of Surah Al-Balad, part 30:

لَاۤ اُقْسِمُ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِۙ(۱) وَ اَنْتَ حِلٌّۢ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِۙ(۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I swear by this city (Makkah). That (because) O Beloved, you are present in this city. (Part 30, Surah Al-Balad, verse 1-2)

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed commentators of the Glorious Quran have consensus upon the fact that the blessed city whose oath Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned in this blessed Ayah is ‘Makka-tul-Mukarramah’. Indicating to the same blessed Ayah, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! Your excellence is so elevated in the blessed court of Allah Almighty that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned an oath of only your blessed life, not for any other Nabi. Moreover, your exalted rank and status is so high in His court that He Almighty has mentioned the oath of the soil of your blessed feet through ‘ لَاۤ اُقْسِمُ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِ ’.

(Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 493)

Dear Islamic sisters! Through the aforementioned narration, we have learnt that Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to love the sacred city of Makka-tul-Mukarramah also for the reason that the Beloved Master

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was living there. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had the same profound devotion to the blessed city of Madina-tul-Munawwarah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam and obedience to the Beloved Rasool

Dear Islamic sisters! If a person claims to love someone, then she tries to spend her entire life to become like her; emulating her style and obeying her. One can get a glimpse of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the fact that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ followed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter.

Cut long sleeves with a knife

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wore a new clothing. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then asked for a knife and said, ‘O son! Pull its long sleeves from the edges and cut the piece that goes beyond my fingers.’ Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I cut it but it was not cut straight, rather, it was cut in a zigzag pattern.’ I humbly said, ‘Dear father! Cutting it with a pair of scissors would have been better?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘Son! Leave it as it is, because I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cut in the same way. That’s why, I cut my sleeves with a knife too.’ when Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had cut the sleeves, the clothing was in such state that threads were falling down from it. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, vol. 5, pp.475, Hadees 7498)

Dear Islamic sisters! Just ponder upon the fact that how overwhelmed was Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the devotion to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and how passionate he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was to act upon the blessed Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that while following the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he also cut his sleeves with a knife but were not cut straight; but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not feel any embarrassment wearing the same

very clothing. This obedience of his to the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was of the highest level. Similarly, the state of the devotion of other companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم towards Sunnahs and acting upon them (Sunnahs) was such that no attraction of this world or any false regard of the society could make them leave a Sunnah.

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who was the chief of the Muslims of that area) was once eating food; a morsel fell from his hand on the ground. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked it up, cleaned and then ate it. Seeing this, some uncultured people gave each other a contemptuous look (that how strange it is that he has eaten a dropped morsel). Someone said to him, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless our chief! O our leader! These uncultured people are looking scornfully at you because you have eaten a fallen morsel despite the availability of food in front of him.’ Listening to this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I cannot give up what I heard from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because of these ‘Ajamis [non-Arabs]. If a morsel of food falls down, we would instruct each other to pick it up, clean and eat it, and not leave it for Satan.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 17, Hadees 3278)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see how intensely Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, an eminent companion and the leader of Muslims, loved the Sunnah, paying no attention at all to the contemptuous gazes of the ‘Ajamis, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued to practice upon the Sunnah without any hesitation.

Therefore, keep performing individual efforts for your own reformation and that of the people of the entire world. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our mutual efforts will produce fruitful results, the truth will prevail, Satan will be disgraced, message of the blessed Sunnah will spread everywhere, and اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, every home will be illuminated with the blessed Noor of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with (female) teachers and students of colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progress!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Love does not demand that we take deep interest in the person we love and confine our love to her only. Instead, a lover loves everything that is associated with her beloved; such as her family and household, relatives and closed ones, and friends and beloveds.

Preferred Hasnayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم to his own children

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that during the era of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam‘s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ caliphate, when the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم conquered Madaain (capital of Persia) with the

blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the wealth and goods were brought to Madina-tul-Munawwarah, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got mats spread in Masjid-un-Nabawi and asked for all the wealth and goods to be placed on them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered to get the wealth and goods. First of all, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! Give me my share out of the wealth and goods that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon the Muslims.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect and prominence is for you. By saying this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave him 1000 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ received his share and left. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect and prominence is for you’ and also gave him 1000 dirhams. Then his son Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘ Great respect and prominence is for you too’ and gave him 500 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I participated with my sword with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the path of Allah Almighty even at the time when (Sayyiduna) Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) were young Madani children. Despite this, you have given to me 500 dirhams and to them 1000 dirhams each.’ Upon hearing this, being overwhelmed by the devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said whilst being engrossed in their love, ‘Yes, absolutely! (If you want me to give you the share equal to them) then go and first bring a father like the father of Hasnayn Karimayn, mother like their mother, [maternal] grandfather like their [maternal] grandfather, [maternal] grandmother like theirs, [paternal] uncle like theirs, and [maternal] uncle like theirs; and you can never do this because ‘ اَبُوۡهُمَا فَعَلِيُّ الۡمُرۡتَضٰى ’ their father is Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, ‘ اُمُّهُمَا فَفَاطِمَةُ الزَّهۡرَاء ’ Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz- Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their mother, ‘ جَدُّهُمَا مُحَمَّدُ نِ الۡمُصۡطَفٰي ’ Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is their

[maternal] grandfather, ‘ جَدَّتُهُمَا خَدِيۡجَةُ الۡكُبۡرٰى ’ Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their [maternal] grandmother; ‘ عَمُّهُمَا جَعۡفَرُ بۡنُ اَبِيۡ طَالِبٍ ’ Sayyiduna Ja’far Bin Abi Taalib is their [paternal] uncle; ‘ خَالُهُمَا اِبۡرَاهِيۡمُ بۡنُ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ Sayyiduna Ibraheem (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) Bin Rasoolullah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is their [maternal] uncle,‘ خَالَتَاهُمَا رُقَيَّةُ وَ اُمُّ كُلۡثُوۡمٍ اِبۡنَتَا رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ and the daughters of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidah Ruqayyah and Sayyidah Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, are their [maternal] aunts. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 340)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! If you want to read the parables of the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of other blessed companions as well like Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, then do study a very good 274-page book named ‘ Sahabah Kiram ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool ’ [The Blessed Companions’ Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. This book develops and enhances the love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This book can also be read online from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net, it can also be downloaded and printed as well. Likewise, to develop devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions and the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will attain the unparalleled treasure of good deeds, develop a mind-set for hating sins, and it will also make Hereafter better.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding gratitude

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding gratitude. First, listen to 2 sayings of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. -1 Allah Almighty likes the fact that person pays gratitude to Him upon every morsel and sip. (Muslim, pp. 1122, Hadees 6932)

2. -2 You should keep your tongues moist with Zikr and hearts with gratitude. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 419, Hadees. 590)

… ٭ Paying gratitude is a worship of the highest ranks. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

… ٭ It is Wajib [obligatory] to pay gratitude upon the blessings of Allah Almighty. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 2, surah Baqarah, taht-al-Ayah 172)

… ٭ Being able to pay gratitude is a great blessing. (Shukr kay Fazaail pp. 12)

… ٭ Gratitude safeguards blessings. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

… ٭ Paying gratitude is the habit of the chosen people of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

… ٭ Gratitude is leaving the disobedience of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

… ٭ Person remains protected from torment when he pays gratitude to Allah Almighty upon receiving a blessing. (Siraat-ul-Jinan, vol. 4, pp. 406)

… ٭ Worship remains incomplete without gratitude. (Bayzawi. Vol. 1, pp. 449)

… ٭ Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Waasiti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated: Love of Allah Almighty develops in the heart by remembering His blessings. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 36, pp. 334, Hadees. 4133)

… ٭ Sayyiduna Umar Bin Abdul Aziz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: Safeguard the blessings of Allah Almighty by paying gratitude over them. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 374, Hadees. 7455)

… ٭ Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Gratitude of heart is that one intends to do goodness and act of piety with a blessing.

… ٭ Gratitude of tongue is that Allah Almighty is glorified over a certain blessing.

… ٭ Gratitude of the remaining body parts is that the blessings of Allah Almighty should be spent in the worship of Allah Almighty; and protect them from being spent in the disobedience of Allah Almighty.

… ٭ Gratitude of eyes is that if one sees a fault of a Muslim, then he conceals it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

