اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Seerah of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللہ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

It is mentioned in the famous book of Hadees Tirmizi Shareef: The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً ’ ‘i.e. closest to me on the Day of Judgement amongst people will

be the one who would recite Salat upon me the most.’ (Tirmizi Shareef, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَ 3

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Calling people towards righteousness is not a new or an ordinary task. Rather, it is such a great act that has duly been performed by the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Thereafter, when the chain of

Nubuwwah came to an end, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were given this noble responsibility.

Overwhelmed with the passion of reforming the Ummah, when these sacred personalities started the Madani activity of calling people to righteousness, then they were not welcomed with the shower of rose petals and floral garlands. Rather, in return of this favour, they were severely oppressed, tortured by being imprisoned and even their body skins were ripped off. They were dragged on the blazing sand; arrows, swords and spears were pierced into their bodies, to the extent that these sacred people did not even care about their lives in the way of Allah Almighty and many of them also embraced martyrdom. In short, the glorious manner in which these Allah-loving people continued the Madani activity of reforming people is indeed matchless.

Among those great personalities is also the name of the leader of millions of Shaafi’is, illustrious scholar, the great Mujtahid [revivalist], Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Today, we will be privileged to hear about his Seerah and character.

Introduction to Imam Shaafi’i

Imam Abu Abdullah Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the great Imam and eminent Mujtahid of the 2 nd Hijri. His blessed lineage meets that of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at ‘Abd-e-Manaaf. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 150 Hijri in a village in Palestine. (Kitab-us-Saqaat Li-Ibn-e-Habban, vol. 5, pp. 406)

Mother’s dream

Before the birth of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his mother, Sayyidatuna Fatima Bint-e-Abdullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا, saw a dream that the famous star Jupiter emerged from her body and fell in Egypt. Then its pieces scattered around in every city. Expert dream-interpreters interpreted this dream by saying that you will give birth to such a great scholar whose knowledge will spread across

Egypt and from there, it will spread across the Islamic world. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 2, pp. 57)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The beloved father of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was two years old. His mother brought him to Makkah-e-Mukarramah where he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was raised, brought up and educated. (Kitab-us-Saqaat Li-Ibn-e-Habban, Raqm 2997, Muhammad Bin Idrees, vol. 5, pp. 406)

Initially, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was more inclined towards ‘ilm-e-lughat (lexicology [a branch of linguistics]) and Arabic couplets. Later on, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started acquiring knowledge in the field of Hadees and Fiqh and gained immense expertise in it. While talking about the event that made him leave ‘Ilm-e-lughat and couplets and made him more inclined towards Hadees and Fiqh, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself said ‘One day, I was passionately reading the couplets of the Arab poet named Labeed. All of a sudden, I heard an admonitory voice from the unseen: ‘Why are you wasting your time in couplets? Acquire the knowledge of Fiqh.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that ‘this voice from the unseen had a very strong impact on my heart and I acquired knowledge from Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyainah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Makkah-e-Mukarramah. Thereafter, I acquired the blessings of ‘ilm [knowledge] from Sayyiduna Muslim Bin Khalid Zanji رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and then came in the court of Imam Malik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Madina-e-Munawwarah.’ (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 83, Hadees 13191)

Maula Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ granted a ring

A pious person has said that he heard Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه say: I saw Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in my dream. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came and I quickly leaped forward to him, said Salaam and shook his hands. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced me, took the ring out of his finger and put it in my finger. When I woke up in the morning, I relayed my dream to the dream interpreter. He said to me: O Abu Abdullah! There is glad tiding for you. You beholding Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in Masjid-e-Haraam is the glad

tiding of your salvation from the punishment of fire. Your shaking hands with him refers to your safety on the Day of Accountability. And as far as him putting the ring in your finger is concerned, it means that soon your fame in the entire world will be like that of Sayyiduna Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Tareekh-e-Baghdaad, Raqm 454, Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i, vol. 2, pp. 58)

Excellent memory and passion for (acquiring) the Islamic knowledge

Allah Almighty blessed Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with an excellent memory and great intellect. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would memorise whatever he would read. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only memorised the Holy Quran in very young age but also memorised the famous book of Hadees, Mu’ata Imam Malik, by heart. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states ‘When I completed the Holy Quran, then I started going to the Masjid and started to learn and memorise blessed Ahadees and Shar’i rulings by having the company of the blessed scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . In Makkah-e-Mukarramah, our home was situated in the valley of Khaif. Whenever I would find any shiny bone, I would write Hadees and Shar’i ruling on it; to the extent that the well of our house got filled up with such bones.

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp 82, Hadees 13186)

Sayyiduna Rabi’ Bin Sulayman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Once I took a camel from Imam Muhammad Bin Hassan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that was loaded. It did not have anything else on it except the knowledge I acquired from him. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 86, Hadees 13195)

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Abdullah Bin Abdul Hakam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates that Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I started searching for knowledge since my childhood whereas I would not have any wealth with me. Therefore, I would go to the Maktab [learning institute], gather small pieces of arrows and write Ahadees on them. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 85, Hadees 13195)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lost his compassionate father in his childhood. If we think about it according to our mind-set, then as he was growing, he should have earned money in order to

provide for his family. He should have acquired a skill or worked somewhere. But he did not do so and engaged in acquiring the Islamic knowledge. Remember! Allah Almighty blesses those with the understanding of Deen upon whom He casts His special gaze of mercy. As the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ یُرِدِ اللّٰہُ بِہِ خَیْرًا یُّفَقِّہْہُ فِی الدِّیْنِ ’ i.e. Allah Almighty blesses the understanding of Deen to the one whom He Almighty intends to bestow goodness upon. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadees 71)

It was very difficult to acquire Islamic knowledge in the past. The facilities available now were not available back then. Despite all this, our righteous predecessors not only acquired the Islamic knowledge but also spread it across the world. Acquiring the Islamic knowledge has become extremely easy in today’s day and age. Opportunities to acquire the Islamic knowledge are available everywhere. But despite all this, we are unappreciative and lazy in acquiring the Islamic knowledge. Whereas, our righteous predecessors sacrificed their peaceful sleep, comfortable beds, and travelled in faraway cities in order to acquire the Islamic knowledge. They would face all the difficulties in this path with full determination.

Remember! Islamic knowledge is the only matchless treasure. Islamic knowledge is the heritage of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . Islamic knowledge is the path to attain closeness to Allah Almighty. Islamic knowledge is the source of guidance. Islamic knowledge is the means of refraining from sins. Islamic knowledge ignites the fear of Allah Almighty in our heart. Islamic knowledge makes one earn dignity in this world as well as in the Hereafter. Islamic knowledge is life for dead hearts. Islamic knowledge secures one’s Iman [faith]. Islamic knowledge is the means of attaining people’s love. In short! Islamic knowledge contains numerous virtues. Islamic knowledge contains Deen as well as (the goodness of) this world; Islamic knowledge contains peace as well as satisfaction; Islamic knowledge contains charm as well as comfort. Therefore, wise is the one who engages in acquiring the Islamic knowledge and gathers provisions for the salvation of the Hereafter too along with this world.

Alas! Majority of the people in our society do not pay attention towards acquiring the Islamic knowledge themselves and nor do they teach it to their children either. They intensively teach their intelligent children the worldly knowledge and skills but do not pay any attention in teaching them the obligatory Islamic knowledge, the Holy Quran and the blessed Sunnahs. People do desire for their children to become a doctor, engineer, professor and a computer programmer but the desire of making them Hafiz-e-Quran, Islamic Scholar and Mufti of Islam is diminishing away. If only we could succeed in departing this world by leaving Sadaqah-e-Jariyah (continuous reward) behind us in the shape of teaching our children the Islamic knowledge. However, remember that this desire can only be fulfilled when our children can be enriched with the matchless treasure of the Islamic knowledge. Therefore, make your children and offspring interested in Islamic knowledge from their childhood.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Gaining blessings of Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Dear Islamic brothers! We were listening about the Seerah of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was extremely intelligent and possessed a great memory. He was an expert in memorising big books by heart. Let us listen to a parable based on his amazing memory.

It is narrated that when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went in the court of Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said: ‘I want to learn ‘Muwatta’ from you.’ Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Go to my writer Habeeb. He recites it.’ He (Imam Shaafi’i) رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly said: ‘May Allah Almighty be pleased with you. Please listen to one page from me. If you like my reading, then I will read it out to you. Otherwise, I will leave it.’ Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Please read.’ Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’I رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read out one page and became quiet. Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Please read further.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read another page and became quiet. Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said again: ‘Please read further.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

read further. Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه liked it very much. Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read the entire Muwatta before Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه again appeared in the court of Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he (Imam Maalik) رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Search for such a person who can teach you.’ So Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Huzoor! I wish that you listen to my reading. If I am unable to read it nicely, then I will look for someone who can teach.’ Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘OK. That’s fine. Please read.’ Then Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read out the entire Muwatta from beginning to end by heart. He (Imam Shaafi’i) رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Upon this, Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave me Du’a and became very happy.’ (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 78, Hadees 13177)

Permission of issuing Fatwa

Allah Almighty bestowed Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with matchless knowledge. His competence and academic greatness can be clearly judged by the fact that when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه turned only fifteen years old, then his beloved teacher and the Grand Mufti of Makkah-e-Mukarramah, Sayyiduna Muslim Bin Khalid Zanji رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, gave him the permission to issue Fatwas due to the complete confidence and thorough reliance he had in him. (Kitaab-us-Saqaat Li-Ibn-e-Habban, vol. 5, pp. 406)

Teachers of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to acquire blessings from the best of the scholars and Mashaaikh of his time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also gained a lot of knowledge from the great leader of Malikees, Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Generally speaking, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a lot of teachers, but the personality whom he was seen most impressed of was the eminent student of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Imam Muhammad Bin Hassan Shaybani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Shuja’ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that once, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presented the solution to an extremely complicated issue which was also quite astonishing for him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘This is the blessing of

my beloved teacher, Imam Muhammad Bin Hassan Shaybani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Maqamaat-e-Imam A’zam, pp. 525)

Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that ‘I stayed with Imam Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for twenty years. The amount of knowledge I gained from him, if it was to be converted in a written form, then a camel would be required to carry its weight. Undoubtedly, if Imam Muhammad was not there, then I would not have received the understanding of Deen. (Maqamaat-e-Imam A’zam, pp. 531)

It was the blessings of the great and eminent scholars like Imam Maalik and Imam Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهِمَا that made Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه into an ocean of knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was not only Hafiz-ul-Hadees (i.e. memorised one hundred thousand Ahadees by heart) but also held supreme expertise in the meanings and interpretations of Hadees, states of affairs of the narrators and determining the authenticity of Hadees etc.

Intelligence of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his services for Hadees

Allah Almighty blessed Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with great intellectual abilities and immense Islamic knowledge. Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: مَا رَاَیْتُ اَحَدًا اَعْقَلَ مِنَ الشَّافِعِی i.e. I have not seen anyone more intelligent than Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 101, Imam Shaafi’i, Hadees 13217)

The excellence and greatness of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can also be judged from the fact that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: عَالِمُ قُرَیْشٍ یَمْلَاُ طَبَاقَ الْاَرْضِ عِلْمًا i.e. ‘One ‘Aalim (Islamic scholar) of Quraysh will fill the world with ‘ilm (knowledge). ’ Various scholars have said that this Hadees is pointed towards Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . ‘Allamah Abdur Rauf Manawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that the scholar of Quraysh mentioned in this blessed Hadees is Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Fayz-ul-Qadeer, vol. 2, pp. 134, Taht-al-Hadees 1460)

Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that the way Sayyiduna Umar Bin Abdul Aziz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the Mujaddid [revivalist] of the first century,

similarly, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the Mujaddid [revivalist] of the second century. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 105, Al-Imam Shaafi’i, Hadees 13236) He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further states that in last thirty years, there has not been any such night in which I did not make Du’a (supplication) for Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 105, Al-Imam Shaafi’i, Hadees 13237)

Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه served Hadees all his life. When Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Iraq, then the blessed scholars of Iraq conferred him with the title of Nasir-ul-Hadees. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 114, Al-Imam Shaafi’i, Hadees 13277)

Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that I have not seen anyone obey Hadees more than Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 9, pp. 114, Al-Imam Shaafi’i, Hadees 13276)

Attributes of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

O devotees of Awliya! Imam Shaafi’i’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه academic rank and greatness was indeed exemplary and matchless; but along with these attributes, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also an embodiment of Taqwa and piety, Allah Almighty’s fear, a lot of worship, having passion for reforming the Ummah, contemplation of the Hereafter, good morals, asceticism and piety, humility and humbleness, following of Shari’ah, forgiving and forbearance, patience and gratitude, love of Allah Almighty, accountability of Nafs, opposing shetaan and various other noble attributes. Let us listen to three narrations regarding his acts of worship and staying awake at nights:

1. Sayyiduna Haroon Bin Sa’eed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: I have not seen anyone like Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to us in Egypt, people said: ‘A Qurayshi Faqeeh [jurist] has come to us.’ Hence, we went to him and he was offering Salah. We did not see anyone with a more graceful face than his and someone who offered Salah better than him. We kept waiting. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Salah, then he started the conversation. We did not find anyone who would converse better than him either. (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq, pp. 210)

2. Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would divide night into three parts. In the first part, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would engage in writing books; in the second part, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Nawafil and in the third part, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would rest. Sayyiduna Rabi’ Bin Sulayman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would complete one Holy Quran every day, and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would complete the Holy Quran sixty times in the nawafil of Ramadan. (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq, pp. 207)

3. Sayyiduna Hassan Karab ee si رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: I spent many nights in the company of Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . I saw that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah in the one-third of the night and would never recite more than fifty Ayahs. Even if he did recite more than fifty Ayahs, then maximum he would recite is one hundred Ayahs. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite an Ayah of mercy, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would make Du’a in the court of Allah Almighty for himself and all the believers to remain steadfast upon obedience. And when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite an Ayah of punishment, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would seek refuge from it and make Du’a to Allah Almighty for his own salvation and that of all the believers. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, Raqm. 454, Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i, vol. 2, pp. 61)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Performing excessive worship of Allah Almighty is the way of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . Worshipping Allah Almighty is the way of the blessed Awliya عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ . Worshipping Allah Almighty is the means for developing the love for Allah Almighty in your hearts, worshipping Allah Almighty is the way to get free from the trap of Shaytan, worshiping Allah Almighty is the means of attaining the closeness to Allah Almighty, worshiping Allah Almighty is the means of attaining cure from the epidemic of sins, worshipping Allah Almighty is the means of reforming ourselves apparently and internally, worshipping Allah Almighty is the means of refreshing our souls, worshipping Allah Almighty is the means for the satisfaction of hearts, worshipping Allah Almighty is required by the Shari’ah, worshipping Allah Almighty is the right upon every believer and worshipping Allah Almighty is the purpose of creating the human being.

While mentioning the purpose of the human creation, Allah Almighty states in Part 27, Surah Az-Zariyaat, Ayah no. 56:

وَ مَا خَلَقْتُ الْجِنَّ وَ الْاِنْسَ اِلَّا لِیَعْبُدُوْنِ(۵۶)

Translation from Quran: And I have created jinns and human beings, only for this that they should worship Me.

[Translation from Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 27, Surah Az-Zariyat, Ayah 56)

O devotees of the Holy Rasool! This blessed Ayah clearly mentions that humans and jinns have been created to worship Allah Almighty. And when our Lord and Creator, Allah Almighty, Has told us the purpose of our creation, then it is also obligatory upon us to engage ourselves in attaining this goal and worship Allah Almighty abundantly. Moreover, it is also evident that as we have been commanded to worship, at the same time, we have also been guided in terms of how to perform the worship. Therefore, we should learn how to perform worship and do so accordingly. For example, whether we are to offer Fard Salah or Nafl Salah, we will have to fulfil all its requirements. If we want to perform worship through the recitation of the Holy Quran, then we will have to learn how to recite the Holy Quran correctly. If we are to perform the Fard Hajj, then we will have to learn the important rulings of Hajj. In case Zakah is Fard upon us, then we will have to learn the rulings of Zakah.

If we study the Seerah of the righteous predecessors, then we will come to know that:

٭ All righteous people of Allah Almighty had a deep yearning for worship and ascetic practices.

٭ Their (righteous people’s) days and nights were spent in worshipping and obedience.

٭ Their favourite activity was to spend their entire time in the remembrance of Allah Almighty. You will find both aspects, acquiring

knowledge and worshipping, to be very prominent in the Seerah of the blessed Awliya.

In order to increase the passion of worship and intending to follow the footsteps of the righteous predecessors, let us listen to two parables regarding abundant acts of worship of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Worshipping in the entire night and observing Sawm throughout the day

1. It is narrated that Sayyiduna Habeeb Najjar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship in the entire night and keep Sawm throughout the day. Moreover, whatever food was presented to him for Iftar, he would distribute that too among others and spend the entire night hungry in Qiyam. When the time of dawn would approach, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty with extreme humbleness and humility: ‘I remained drowned in the oceans of heedlessness and trod in the valleys of sins. O, Allah! This contemptible, sinful and humble slave of Yours is present in Your merciful court and seeks Your refuge.’ (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq, pp. 246)

Luminous lamp would enlighten!

2. Waliyyah of her time, Sayyidatuna Hafsah Bint-e-Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا was an extremely devout worshipper living in Basra. She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا is the sister of the great eminent scholar who possessed the knowledge of the interpretations of dreams, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would spend the entire night offering Salah and recite half of the Holy Quran in Salah. Quite often, she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would remain standing in Salah at her Salah-offering place for so long that her lamp would turn off, but her home would remain luminous for her (without the light of the lamp) until morning. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 6, pp. 242,Taht-al-Ayah 64)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to abandon sins and develop a mind-set to perform the acts of worship, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Practically take part in the Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Out of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah, one weekly Madani activity is the ‘Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf’ (Holiday I’tikaf).

In this, Islamic brothers go to the areas of the city and surrounding city areas on the day they are off from work and enliven Masajid in those areas. Moreover, they convey the call to righteousness to the local devotees of Rasool and learn and teach the Islamic knowledge.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ ٭,Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf is a great means of teaching Islamic brothers Sunnahs and manners and the method of Madani Dars.

٭ Masajid enliven due to the blessings of Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf.

٭ Due to the blessings of Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf, every moment spent in Masjid will be considered to be spent in worship.

٭ Due to the blessings of Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf, one gets the blessings of having love for the Masjid and spending most of his time in the Masjid. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Spending most of the time in Masjid carries an immense reward. Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: When you see a person that he often visits the Masjid, then testify for his Iman [faith] because Allah Almighty says (in Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah No. 18):

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Quran: Only those uphold the Mosques of Allah, who believe in Allah and the Last Day and keep Salah established and pay Zakaat.

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

(Tirmizi, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 280, Hadees 2626)

May Allah Almighty enable us to enliven Masajid, establish Salah and pay Zakah. A good company is extremely important in order to gain steadfastness in performing virtuous deeds. Otherwise at times, after reading or listening to the excellence of virtuous deeds, a person does develop a mind-set that now, I will not disobey Allah Almighty and will fully remain inclined towards virtuous deeds; but evil company comes in the way which becomes a hindrance in attaining steadfastness over virtuous deeds. At times, useless activities waste a person’s time as well as deprive him of various virtuous deeds.

Fond of kite-flying

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) was fond of kite-flying. He was used to playing video games and other useless sports. He had the ill-habit of intervening in everyone’s matters, picking up a quarrel with people and having a fight on very small issues. In the last ‘Asharah (10 days) of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, he observed I’tikaf in the nearest Masjid. He saw beautiful dreams there and received a lot of solace. Thereafter, he was privileged to observe I’tikaf for further two years. Once, the Mu’azzin of the Masjid brought him to the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ in the ‘Aalami Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi). He was deeply touched due to the luminosity of the face of the Muballigh (preacher) and became associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he also adorned his face with a fistful beard.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Just like other attributes, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also matchless when it came to generosity. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to spend wealth abundantly (in the path of Allah Almighty). Being generous and giving to the deserving people had been embedded into his character. Let us listen to four parables regarding the generosity of Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

1. Sayyiduna Hameedi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Yemen for one of his needs. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came back

to Makkah Mukarramah زَادَہَا اللّٰہُ شَرَفًاوَّتَعْظِیْماً, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had ten thousand Dirhams with him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه put up a tent outside Makkah-tul-Mukarramah زَادَہَا اللّٰہُ شَرَفًاوَّتَعْظِیْماً and people kept coming to him. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the tent, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had distributed all the wealth in the path of Allah Almighty. (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq, pp. 208)

2. Sayyiduna Rabi’ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When I got married, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه inquired from me: ‘How much Mahr have you decided?’ I humbly replied: ‘Thirty deenars.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked again: ‘How much money did you give to your wife?’ I humbly replied: ‘Six Deenars.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent a pouch to me that contained twenty-four Deenars and got me appointed as the Muazzin of the Jami’ Masjid in 201 Hijri. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman Lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 7, pp. 452, Hadees 10962)

3. One day, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was going somewhere on his ride. The whip fell-off from his hand. A person picked it up and gave it to him. Upon this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him fifty Deenars. (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq, pp. 208)

4. One day, Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the bathroom. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a lot of wealth. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the entire wealth to the bath keeper. (Ar-Rauz-ul-Faiq wa-Zikr-us-Saaliheen, pp. 208)

Dear Islamic brothers! Generosity and miserliness (stinginess) are both opposite to each other. The literal meaning of miserliness is to be stingy. Moreover, not spending wealth where it is mandatory is called miserliness. (Al-Hadiqah-tun-Nadiyah, vol. 2, pp. 27)

Whereas Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions the definition of generosity in Ihya-ul-Uloom in the following words: ‘The path between extravagance (overspending) and miserliness, and affluence and poverty is referred to as generosity.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 780)

Definition of generous and miser [stingy]

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that generally in Arabic proverb, Sakhi [generous] refers to the one who himself eats and

feeds others. Jawwaad [superior category of sakhi] refers to the one who feeds others and does not eat himself. That’s why, Allah Almighty is not referred to as Sakhi (rather, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be called Jawwaad). (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 1, pp. 221)

Dear Islamic brothers, miserliness and generosity both are related to wealth, one is very bad while the other one is a very good attribute.

There is no doubt in the fact that wealth has not stayed and nor will it remain with anyone forever. Therefore, if Allah Almighty has blessed any fortunate person with this blessing, then he should appreciate it and refrain from being ungrateful in this regard. One shall not gather the perishable wealth more than his need. Rather, he should spend it every now and then in the path of Allah Almighty and adorn himself with the beautiful trait of generosity. Remember! The one who adopts miserliness instead of generosity does not attain the satisfaction and peace of heart. Such a person does not treat relatives nicely. He considers spending on noble causes to be extravagance (overspending). Even if he does take part (financially) in any noble cause, then his state is such that he hopes for his name to be announced. A miser (stingy) person considers gathering wealth to be his own excellence. He deprives the deserving people of it and faces their displeasure. He deprives himself of their Du’as. He makes people slander, backbite and have ill-opinions about him. Moreover, due to miserliness, he does not pay his Sadaqat-e-Wajibah such as Zakah, Fitrah, etc., and displeases Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and makes himself deserving of the Hell. Let us listen to three blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم based on the destruction of miserliness:

1. (اِنَّ اللّٰہَ یَـبْغَضُ الْبَخِیْلَ فِیْ حَیَاتِہِ السَّخِیَّ عِنْدَمَوْتِہٖ) i.e. Allah Almighty dislikes the one who remains miser (stingy) all his life and shows generosity at the time of his death. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 180, Hadees 7373)

2. (مَا مَحَقَ الْاِسْلَامُ شَیْأًمَحْقَ الشُّحِّ) i.e. Islam has not eradicated anything as much as it has eradicated miserliness (stinginess). (Mu’jam-e-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 151, Hadees 2843)

3. Generosity is a tree in the Paradise. So the one who became generous held the branch of that tree. That branch will not leave him, to the extent that it will make him enter Paradise. And miserliness is a tree in Hell. So the one who became miser held the branch of that tree. That branch will not leave him, to the extent that it will make him enter the fire. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 435, Hadees 10877)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states in relation to the last Hadees, i.e. the root of generosity is in Paradise and its branches are in this world. The reason because generosity is of many kinds, hence it is stated that branches of that tree are widely spread in the world. As the Holy Quran states that the root of the blessed Kalimah is in the heart of a Muslim and its branches are in the sky (and it) always bears fruit. So an example has been mentioned in this Hadees too. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further states that the lowest stage of generosity in Shari’ah is that a person pays the Sadaqat that are Fard. The lowest stage in Tareeqah is that he shall not suffice only on Fard Sadaqat, but also give Nafl [optional] Sadaqat. The lowest stage for those who possess Haqeeqah and Ma’rifah is that one shall prioritise others’ needs over his own needs. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 3, pp. 91)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we gathered some Madani pearls from the Seerah and character of Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The main purpose of mentioning the Seerah and character of the righteous predecessors is to make efforts to become like them, follow their footsteps and live our lives just like them. Undoubtedly, we are deviating away from Islam today. Muslims are far away from being practical Muslims. In such an environment, listening to the character of the righteous people of Allah Almighty and acting upon it can lead us to success in this world as well as make us attain the blessings in the Hereafter. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is enriched with the blessings of the righteous predecessors. Associate yourselves too with this beautiful Madani environment.

It will not only develop the love of the righteous predecessors in your heart but will also ignite the passion of becoming pious.

Majlis Islaah Bara-e-Khilariyaan [reformation of sportsmen]

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is serving Islam in more or less 105 departments. One department has also been established for the reformation and Tarbiyyat (learning) of sportsmen, namely ‘Majlis Islaah Bara-e-Khilariyaan’. The main purpose of this department is to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami among those who are associated with sports, associate them with Dawat-e-Islami and give them the mind-set to spend their lives according to the Madani aim ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, efforts are being made to give many sportsmen and their household the mind-set of ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding visiting the graveyard

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘I had prohibited you from visiting the graves. But now, do visit the graves, because it causes dislike for the worldliness and reminds one of the afterlife.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 252, vol. 2, Hadees 1571)

2. If one intends to visit a Muslim’s grave or a Mazaar (mausoleum) of some beloved of Allah, it is Mustahab for him to firstly offer two Rak’aat Nafl Salah (not in Makruh timings) at his home reciting Ayat-ul-Kursi once and Surah Al-Ikhlas thrice after Surah Al-Fatihah in each Rak’at and to donate its Sawab to the Sahib -e-Qabr (i.e. the one who is buried there); Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will produce Noor (light) in the grave of that deceased person and will abundantly reward this person (who donated the Sawab). (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 350)

3. Don’t engage in useless conversations when going to visit a Mazaar (mausoleum) or a grave. (Ibid)

4. Enter the graveyard from the usual pathway where there had never been graves of Muslims before. Never use the new pathways, because new path ways are usually paved on the graves. It is quoted in Rad-dul- Muhtar: Walking on new pathways (that has been built by levelling the graves) is Haraam . (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 1, pp. 612) Even if one suspects that the new pathway may have been built over graves, it is not permissible and sinful to walk on that. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 183)

5. It has been observed at some Mazaars of the beloveds of Allah that expansion takes place by demolishing the graves of Muslims just to facilitate visitors. Walking, standing, lying down, seating arrangements for the recitation (of the Holy Quran) and invocations etc. upon such areas are Haraam . Rather, recite Fatihah from a distance.

6. In Mazaar, stand in front of the face of the beloved of Allah. Approach it from the foot side in order to remain in front of his vision; never approach from the head side as he (the buried one) would have to turn his head to look at you. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 532)

7. In the graveyard, stand with the back towards the holy Qiblah whilst facing the face of the buried one, and then recite:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ يَـا اَهۡلَ الۡقُبُوۡرِ

يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ اَنۡتُمۡ لَنَا سَلَـفٌ وَّنَحۡنُ بِالۡاَثَر

Translation: Salutation be upon you all, O inhabitants of the graves, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you. You came (here) before us and we are about to follow after you. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 350)

8. Agarbatti (incense sticks) should not be lit upon the graves as it is against respect and causes discomfort to the dead; however if it is for spreading fragrance for the comfort of visitors, it should be lit beside the grave, as perfuming is praiseworthy. (Derived from Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 525,582)

9. Do not place lamps or candles etc., upon the grave because fire upon a grave is disrespectful to the dead; however if it is required for the purpose of providing light to, then candles or lamps etc. may be placed besides the grave.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of visiting the graveyard will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for “abstaining from ill-character”

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima this week, the Du’a for ‘abstaining from ill-character’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘Ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 17 January 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

