اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Welcome to Ramadan

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When the day of Thursday comes Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends the angels who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They write as to who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday).’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 250, Hadees 2174)

ذات ہوئی اِنتِخاب وَصف ہوئے لاجواب نام ہوا مُصطَفٰے تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

of 10 days): In the first ten days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has special mercies on the believers by which they gain strength to observe fasts and offer Taraweeh and become capable of getting further blessings. In the second ten days, all his minor sins are forgiven because of which he will be freed from Hell and he will be made to enter Paradise. In the third (last) ten days there is an announcement for those who observe fasts of being blessed (a Jannati), i.e. they are issued the visa and passport to enter Jannah (Paradise).

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 140-141)

مرحبا صد مرحبا! پھر آمدِ رَمَضان ہے کِھل اُٹھے مُرجھائے دل تازہ ہوا ایمان ہے

یا خُدا ہم عاصیوں پر یہ بڑا اِحسان ہے زندگی میں پھر عطا ہم کو کِیا رَمَضان ہے

یا الٰہی! تُو مدینے میں کبھی رَمَضاں دکھا مُدّتوں سے دل میں یہ عطّار کے اَرمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved Ramadan which is the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so much, that upon the arrival of this blessed month, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give a grand welcoming to this month and would also clarify the significance of this blessed month by mentioning its glory and greatness, virtues and blessings and other exceptional qualities to his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also made their Madani minds to perform different good deeds. Since the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم were also true lovers of the Beloved Prophet and of Ramadan, they would congratulate Muslims on the arrival of this guest of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (Ramadan) in devotion to Ramadan and obedience to their Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, they also persuaded Muslims to observe fasts, stay awake for worship during the nights and to spend money in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to say: I welcome the month which purifies us. The entire month of Ramadan is

good whether it is the fast during the day or Qiyam (standing for worship) during the night. To spend in this month has the status of spending in Jihad.

(Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 177, Raqm 447)

This is a summary of the renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan’s manuscript: Being happy and wishing happiness to each other upon the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan is a Sunnah; we should be happy when this blessed month begins, and be sad when it leaves us. It is for this reason that the majority of Muslims feel sad and weep on Jumu’a-tul-Wada’ (the last Friday of Ramadan), some farewell words are recited and speeches are given, for Muslims to carry out maximum good deeds in the time that remains of this blessed month by considering it a great opportunity. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 137)

Therefore, O lovers of Ramadan, rejoice! اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, very soon the sacred month of Ramadan, with it mercies and forgiveness is arriving; it is a month in which the reward for Nafl acts of worship becomes equal to the Fard acts of worship and the reward for Fard acts of worship increases by 70 times more than the Fard acts of worship in other days. The fasting people enjoy great benefits and countless people are freed from Hell, therefore, you should rejoice and also wish happiness to other Muslims as well. Furthermore, free yourself from worldly affairs before the arrival of this blessed month, so that you can attain the blessings of Salahs, fasts, recitation of the Holy Quran, Taraweeh and the collective I’tikaf of the whole month or at least of the last ten days and can make the path to Paradise easy.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Celebrations are also made upon the arrival of this blessed guest of mercies and blessings in the Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political Masjid-filling movement of preaching the Quran and Sunnah. The blessed month of Ramadan is given a grand welcoming, and at many places, a large number of Islamic brothers start observing the whole-month I’tikaf in order to perform more good deeds in this blessed month, as arranged by Dawat-e-Islami. Furthermore, when this guest leaves, it is bidden farewell by weeping.

نزدیک آرہا ہے رَمَضان کا مہینا ساحِل سے حاجیوں کا پھر آ لگا سفینہ

آقا! نہ ٹُوٹ جائے یہ دل کا آبگینہ بُلوایئے مدینے دِکھلایئے مدینہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping in mind the glory and greatness of this blessed month, Islamic scholars have given many blessed names to it, amongst them ‘Ramadan’ is the most famous and renowned. Let’s listen to some reasons for calling this month ‘Ramadan’:

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti A h mad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Like ‘ رَحۡـمٰن ’ (Rahman), Ramadan is probably one of the names of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is worshipped the whole day and night in this month. Therefore, it is called Ramadan i.e., ‘The Month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ As a Masjid or the Holy Ka’bah is called the House of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because it is a place where Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is worshipped, similarly, Ramadan is the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because everyone becomes occupied with fulfilling the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this sacred month.

Obviously, fasts and the Taraweeh Salah are acts of worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but when a Muslim fasts, his Halal job or business is also considered as a worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . That’s why the name of this month is Ramadan i.e. the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or it is derived from the word ‘ رَمۡضَا ءٌ ’ [Ramdaa-un] or from the word رَمۡض [Ramd]. The word رَمۡضَا ءٌ implies the autumn rain that washes the earth and produces a good spring harvest. Since this month also washes the dirt and dust of sins from the heart, making the crops of virtuous deeds blossom, it is called Ramadan for this reason as well.

For a good harvest, rain is needed everyday in the first month of the rainy season, four times in the second month and once in the last month. The last rain prepares the crops for harvest. Likewise, a Muslim performs good acts

for eleven months and then the fasts of Ramadan prepare the crops of virtues. The word ‘ رَمۡض ’ [Ramd] implies heat or burning. As the Muslims endure the burning of thirst and hunger in Ramadan or as this month burns their sins, it is called Ramadan. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that the word ‘ رَم َ ضان ’ [Ramadan] has five letters:

1. ر: Means the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. م: Means the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. ض: Means guaranty of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

4. ا: Means protection of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and

5. ن: Means Noor of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Five acts of worship are performed abundantly in Ramadan: (1) fast (2) Taraweeh (3) Recitation of the Holy Quran (4) I’tikaf (5) acts of Worship in Shab-e-Qadr. If a person performs these acts of worship sincerely, he will deserve these five gifts. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, pp. 204-209)

ابرِ رحمت چھا گیا ہے اور سماں ہے نُور نُور

فَضلِ رَبّ سے مغفِرت کا ہوگیا سامان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Ramadan is a great gift from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the sinful people like us. As the sacred month arrives, the lovers of Ramadan rejoice and the atmosphere brightens with the light of the luminosity of Ramadan. The yearning for worship increases a lot. Muslims observe fasts, have the privilege to offer Taraweeh, arrange the gatherings of Khatm-e-Quran and attend such gatherings. They eat and offer Sahari and Iftari, give and persuade others to pay Zakah, Fitrah, ‘Ushr, Sadaqat, charity and Madani

donations. They also get busy reciting the Holy Quran, performing Ruku’ and Sujood and go to Masajid regularly for offering Salah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Talking about the characteristics and gifts of the blessed month of Ramadan on different occasions, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم persuaded us to perform more good deeds and to obtain the gifts which are distributed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to 3 blessed Ahadees about the arrival and the blessings of Ramadan and make an intention to welcome this sacred month with lots of good deeds.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When the first night of blessed Ramadan arrives, the doors of the skies are opened and none of them is closed until the last night. If a believer offers Salah in any night of this month, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ records 1500 virtues for him for every Sajdah of his and a palace of red rubies, which has 60,000 gates, is made for him. Every door will be decorated with gold inlaid with red rubies. When a person fasts on the first day of Ramadan, his sins (minor), which he committed from the previous Ramadan to this day, are forgiven. For him, everyday 70,000 angels make Istighfar from Fajr Salah to sunset. For performing Sajdah every day and during every night of Ramadan he is granted a tree in Paradise, under the shade of which a rider can walk for 500 years.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 314, Hadees 3635)

Sayyiduna ‘Ubadah Bin Saamit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that one day upon the arrival of the sacred month of Ramadan, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A month of blessing has come to you because in it Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes you rich and sends mercy upon you, erases sins and answers Du’as. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sees the inclination of your good deeds and feels proud of you before the angels, therefore present good deeds before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this month, because unfortunate is he who remains deprived of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this month. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 344, Raqm 4783)

یا خدا ماہِ رمضاں کے صدقے سچّی توبہ کی توفیق دیدے

نیک بن جاؤں جی چاہتا ہے یا خُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Undoubtedly Paradise is decorated for the arrival of the month of Ramadan from beginning to the end of the year. When the first night of Ramadan arrives, beneath the ‘Arsh a breeze blows, called Museerah. (By the blowing of this breeze) the leaves of Paradise and the leaves of doors begin to sway, producing such a pleasant sound that no one has ever heard. Large-eyed Hoors (maidens) then appear and call out standing by the balconies of Jannah: Is there anyone who calls out to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ marries him (to us)? They then ask: O Ridwan of Jannah! What night is this? Then, Sayyiduna Ridwan عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام answers uttering Labbayk: This is the first night of the month of Ramadan. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: O Ridwan! Open the doors of Paradise; O Maalik! Close the doors of Hell; O Jibra`eel! Go to the earth and put the headstrong Satans into the sea after fastening them with chains so that they may not cause any mischief in the fasts of my Beloved Prophet’s Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then orders a Munaadi (announcer) to call out 3 times in every night of Ramadan: Is there anyone who begs so that I grant him his wish? Is there anyone who repents so that I accept his repentance? Is there anyone who asks for forgiveness so that I forgive him? (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 20, Hadees 1499)

ہر گھڑی رَحمت بھری ہے ہر طرف ہیں برَکتیں ماہِ رَمَضاں رَحمتوں اور برَکتوں کی کان ہے

عاصِیوں کی مغفرت کا لیکر آیا ہے پَیام جھوم جاؤ مجرِمو! رَمَضاں مہِ غُفران ہے

بھائیو بہنو! کرو سب نیکیوں پر نیکیاں پڑگئے دوزخ پہ تالے قید میں شیطان ہے

بھائیو بہنو! گناہوں سے سبھی توبہ کرو خُلد کے دَر کُھل گئے ہیں داخِلہ آسان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! How glorious is the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He عَزَّوَجَلَّ orders His innocent angels to open the doors of Paradise and to close the doors of Hell from the very first night of this sacred month and also commands His innocent angels to chain the Satans. Furthermore, by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ one, who calls from Heaven, guides people to make Du’a for their wishes, repent and to ask for forgiveness. Therefore, instead of being stuck in worldly affairs we should free ourselves to some extent from important activities before the arrival of sacred Ramadan and besides compulsory and Wajib worships, we should perform Sunan and Mustahabbat abundantly, recitation of the Holy Quran, Taraweeh and I’tikaf and other acts of worship.

If possible, we should try to have the privilege of observing the whole-month I’tikaf or at least the I’tikaf of the last 10 days, which is arranged by Dawat-e-Islami. Get your names recorded in the list of the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who acquire Islamic knowledge by attending the two Madani Muzakarahs (one in the day and the other one after Taraweeh daily) from beginning to end, and become deserving of forgiveness by pleasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let me mention three narrations to you about the Beloved Prophet’s pleasure and delight for worship, so that after listening to them we can also make up our minds and before the arrival of this sacred month, we can prepare ourselves for worship and I’tikaf.

1. اِذَا دَخَلَ شَهْرُ رَمَضَانَ شَدَّ مِئْزَرَهُ ثُمَّ لَمْ يَأْتِ فِرَاشَهُ حَتّٰى يَنْسَلِخَ: When the month of Ramadan would come, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would devote himself to the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and would not approach his blessed bed the whole month. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 310, Hadees 3624)

2. كَانَ رَسُوْلُ اللهِ صَلَّى اللَّهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ اِذَا دَخَلَ رَمَضَانُ تَغَيَّرَ لَوْنُهُ وَكَثُرَتْ صَلَاتُهُ وَابْتَهَلَ فِي الدُّعَاءِوَاَشْفَقَ مِنْهُ: When the month of Ramadan would arrive, the blessed colour of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would change. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer Salah abundantly, make Du’a in an extremely humble manner and remain overtaken by Divine fear. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 310, Hadees 3625)

1. اِذَا دَخَلَ شَهْرُ رَمَضَانَ اَطْلَقَ كُلَّ اَسِيْرٍ وَاَعْطٰى كُلَّ سَائِلٍ: When the month of Ramadan would come, the Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would set free every prisoner and would give something to every person who asked for something.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 310, Hadees 3629)

ﷲ کیا جہنّم اب بھی نہ سَرد ہوگا رو رو کے مُصطَفٰے نے دریا بہا دیئے ہیں

میرے کریم سے گر قطرہ کِسی نے مانگا دریا بہا دئیے ہیں دُر بے بہا دئیے ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! For attaining the blessings of blessed Ramadan, for worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly, for persuading other Islamic brothers to do the same and for spreading it in your own area, enthusiastically participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs. One of the weekly Madani activities of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs is the ‘Area visit for calling towards righteousness’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, calling towards righteousness and preventing from evils are extremely good acts.

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Jihad has four types:

1. To enjoin the performance of good deeds.

2. To prevent from evils.

3. To speak the truth on the occasion of patience.

4. To bear hatred towards transgressors.

(He then stated): The one who calls towards righteousness has strengthened the hands of true believers and the one who prevents from evils has dishonoured the transgressors. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 11, Hadees 6130)

Furthermore, it is stated in another blessed Hadees that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was humbly asked: Who is better amongst the people? He replied: The one who has more fear of his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, treats his relatives well and enjoins to perform good deeds and prevents from evils.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 220, Hadees 7950)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of the ‘area visit to call towards righteousness’, a Madani revolution has occurred in the lives of many people until now. Let me tell you a Madani parable in which by the blessing of an ‘area visit to call towards righteousness’, a drinker (of alcohol) not only repented of his drinking and other sins, but he also became a Muslim practicing the blessed Sunnah.

A Madani Qafilah of lovers of the Beloved Rasool travelled to Kapadvanj (Gujrat, India). During the area visit to call people towards righteousness, the participants of the Madani Qafilah came across a drinker. Making individual efforts, these lovers of the Beloved Rasool requested him to accompany them to the Masjid.

Impressed by the polite and humble manners of the Islamic brothers whose heads were adorned with green turbans, he joined them immediately. By the blessings of the company of lovers of the Beloved Rasool, he repented of his sins, grew a beard, adorned his head with the crown of a green turban and developed a mindset of wearing Madani clothing. He travelled with a Madani Qafilah for 6 days, and made the intention of travelling for a further 92 days, but didn’t have the expenses to travel.

One day, he met a relative of his. The relative was astonished to see that a notorious person of society and a drinker had transformed remarkably, growing a beard and wearing Madani clothing with a green turban on his head. He was told that travelling with a Madani Qafilah had caused this great positive change in his life and he had also made a firm intention of travelling with a 92-day Madani Qafilah but could not travel for the time being due to financial constraints. His relative responded, ‘Don’t worry about money. Not only will I

provide the expenses of the 92-day Madani Qafilah but I will also provide for your family for these 92 days.’ In this way, the brother travelled with a Madani Qafilah for 92 days.

یا خُدا! نکلوں میں مدنی قافلوں کے ساتھ کاش!

سُنّتوں کی تَربِیَت کے واسطے پھر جلد تَر!

خُوب خِدمت سُنّتوں کی ہم سَدا کرتے رہیں

مدنی ماحول اے خُدا ہم سے نہ چُھوٹے عُمر بھر

Dear Islamic brothers! No doubt, in a few days the great month of mercies and blessings is about to arrive, which is a great gift of forgiveness for sinful people like us, after 11 months and remains with us only for 29 or 30 days. Therefore, we should wake up to the fact and have more respect and reverence for this blessed month. Furthermore, we should offer more Salah, observe fasts, recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr and Azkaar, recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, offer Taraweeh, recite Hamd and Na’at and Manqabat. We should also stay awake during the night for worship, offer Taraweeh and Salat-ul-Tasbih, have regret over our sins and make repentance day and night in order to attain the blessings of the mercy that is showered abundantly in the sacred month of Ramadan. Undoubtedly, fortunate are the Muslims who give importance and respect to this sacred guest of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let me tell you a parable of a non-Muslim about the blessings of respecting Ramadan. He was blessed with the wealth of faith (Iman) by virtue of respecting Ramadan. Listen to it and refresh your faith:

In his book, ‘Faizan-e-Ramadan’ [Blessings of Ramadan], on page 909, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated: There was a non-Muslim who lived in Bukhara. Once he was walking through a market of Muslims along with his son. His son began to eat something in public. Seeing his son eating, he scolded him saying,

‘Aren’t you ashamed of eating in the Muslims’ marketplace in the blessed month of Ramadan?’ His son replied, ‘(But) Father, you also eat in the blessed month of Ramadan.’ The father replied, ‘I don’t eat in front of the Muslims, I eat at home where they can’t see me, I don’t disgrace this holy month.’

After some time, this non-Muslim died. Someone had a dream in which he saw the deceased strolling in Paradise. Amazed, the dreaming person asked, ‘You were a non-Muslim, how did you enter Paradise?’ He replied, ‘You are right; I was a non-Muslim, but at the time of my death, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed me with faith through the blessing of respecting Ramadan, and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted me Paradise after my death.’

جب کہا عِصیاں سے میں نے سخت لاچاروں میں ہوں

جن کے پَلّے کچھ نہیں ہے اُن خریداروں میں ہوں

تیری رَحمت کیلئے شامِل گنہگاروں میں ہوں

بول اُٹّھی رَحمت نہ گھبرا میں مَددگاروں میں ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Due to the reverence for the blessed month of Ramadan, not only did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed a non-Muslim with the wealth of faith, but he was also made to enter Paradise. From this parable especially those heedless Muslims, who despite being Muslims do not respect the blessed month of Ramadan, and by making an excuse of intense heat م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, do not observe fasts, should learn a critical lesson from this parable. They smoke cigarettes, chew Paan, Gutkha, Mainpuri etc., in front of the fasting people, even some of them become so bold that they shamelessly have refreshing drinks, Biryani and Samosas etc. in front of everyone. Likewise, some unwise people, instead of observing fasts م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, do not abstain from playing cards, chess, Ludo, and video games, watching films and dramas and listening to songs and music etc. Such people should seriously ponder over their death, its agonies and the matters of the grave and the Day of Judgement. They should think that due to giving no importance to the month of Ramadan and destroying its sanctity if the torment of the grave or Hell is inflicted upon them, so how could their soft and delicate bodies bear

the extreme torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! To disrespect the month of Ramadan is a cause of displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Let me tell you an admonitory parable of the person who disrespected the month of Ramadan, quoted from page 89 of ‘Faizan-e-Ramadan’ [Blessings of Ramadan], a 693-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Listen to it and learn an admonitory lesson:

Once the leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم went to a cemetery in Kufa to visit the graves. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw a newly-prepared grave there; he desired to know about its condition, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly requested Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reveal the condition of the deceased buried in this grave to me.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ immediately accepted his humble request and all the veils between him and the deceased were lifted. Now a horrific scene of the grave was before him. What he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw was that the deceased was on fire and was crying and making this request to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم:

يَاعَلِيُّ! اَنَاغَرِيۡقٌ فِي النَّارِ وَحَرِيۡقٌ فِي النَّارِ

O ‘Ali! I am drowning in fire and I am burning in the fire.

The dreadful scene of the grave and the painful call of the deceased person saddened Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ lifted his hands in the court of his Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and submitted a request with utmost humility for the forgiveness of the deceased. A voice from the Ghayb (hidden) was heard, ‘O ‘Ali! Do not intercede on his behalf as he used to disrespect Ramadan in spite of fasting; he did not refrain from committing sins even in the blessed month of Ramadan; he used to fast during the day, but would indulge in sins during the night.’

Having heard this, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم became even more grieved; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ fell into Sajdah and humbly began to say with tears in

his eyes, ‘Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My respect is in Your power, this man has called out to me with great expectation, O Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Do not disgrace me in front of him, have mercy on his powerlessness and forgive this helpless man.’ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was making Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with tears in his eyes. He then heard a voice, ‘O ‘Ali! We have forgiven him for the sake of your sadness.’ The deceased person was then released from the torment.

(Anees-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 25-26)

مغفِرت کروایئے جنّت میں لے کے جایئے

واسِطہ حَسَنَین کا مولٰی علی مشکلکُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! That unfortunate person, who instead of respecting blessed Ramadan, disrespects it, and being careless of the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to commit sins, meets such a bad and horrible end that after death, torment is inflicted upon him and he is greatly disgraced. Just ponder over this! This is the state of those who commit sins whilst fasting, then how severe and horrible will be the end of those unwise Muslims who do not observe fasts at all without any Shar’i reason in the blessed month of Ramadan and eat and drink publically, م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ or rather they commit sins without any fear and hesitation. Therefore, have mercy on your weakness and instantly repent of your sins forever, start offering Salahs and observing fasts regularly. Remember! By not observing the fasts of blessed Ramadan without any Shar’i permission is a cause of very severe deprivation. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

1. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Anyone who misses one fast in Ramadan without a valid reason or without being ill cannot make up for it even if he fasts for the rest of his life.’ (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 638, vol. 1, Hadees 1934)

1. Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who finds the month of Ramadan but does not fast in it is unfortunate; the one who has both of his parents or any one of them but does not treat them well is unfortunate; the one who hears me being mentioned but does not recite Salat upon me is unfortunate.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 62, Hadees, 3871)

دو جہاں کی نعمتیں ملتی ہیں روزہ دار کو

جو نہیں رکھتا ہے روزہ وہ بڑا نادان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed Hadees we have just heard contains countless Madani pearls of warning for those who do not observe fasts, disobey their parents and are stingy to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Therefore, from today such people should make their Hereafter better by getting rid of their bad habits of missing the fasts of Ramadan, hurting the feelings of their parents and being stingy in reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Here this ruling should also be committed to memory that parents should be obeyed only in permissible acts, because it is not permissible as per the Shari’ah to obey anyone regarding those acts which are contrary to Shari’ah.

Regarding the question about the obedience to parents asked to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: It is Fard (compulsory) to obey the parents in permissible things, even if they are committing grave sins, as they will be punished for their sins and due to this no one is free from the obligation of their obedience in permissible acts. However! If they order one to perform any impermissible act (for example, to shave off the beard or to reduce it to less than a fist, to do unveiling or to wear impermissible clothing), then they should not be obeyed in these acts. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 157)

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ لَا طَاعَةَ فِي مَعْصِيَةٍ اِنَّمَا الطَّاعَةُ فِي الْمَعْرُوْفِ ’, i.e. No one’s obedience is permissible in disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, obedience is (only permissible) in virtuous acts.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 493, Hadees 7257)

Similarly, whenever the blessed name of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is heard or taken, form your habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, because at the time of Beloved Prophet’s Zikr-e-Khayr, that person who does not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, is called a miser in a blessed Hadees.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَلْبَخِيلُ الَّذِي مَنْ ذُكِرْتُ عِنْدَهُ فَلَمْ يُصَلِّ عَلَيَّ ’, A miser is that person in whose presence when my name is mentioned, he does not recite Salat upon me.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 321, Hadees 3557)

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘It is Fard (for a Muslim) to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once in his life. In a congregation, it is Wajib to recite Salat whether he mentions the blessed name of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself or hears it from another person. Even if one hears the blessed name a hundred times in a gathering, he should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi each time. If someone mentions or hears the blessed name and did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at that time, he should recite it at any other time.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 101)

یا نبی! بے کار باتوں کی ہو عادت مجھ سے دُور

بس دُرُودِ پاک کی ہو خُوب کثرت یا رسول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The supreme excellences of ‘I’tikaf’ that you have heard about, are extracted from the remarkable book called ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan ’ [Blessings of Ramadan] authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this unique book contains the important aspects related to Ramadan-ul-Mubarak such as the ‘Excellence of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak’, ‘Excellence and laws of observing fasts’, ‘Rulings on Taraweeh’, ‘Laws related to Sahari & Iftar’, ‘Information about I’tikaf, Sadaqah & Fitr’ including rulings and laws of ‘Eid-ul-Fitr etc.

As fasting is obligatory upon us, therefore, it is necessary for us to learn the laws and rulings of it, and Faizan-e-Ramadan is a collection of all these general laws and rulings. Therefore, Islamic brothers should go through this book and if possible, they should buy and persuade other Islamic brothers to study it as well. This book can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another greatness of the month of Ramadan is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed Shab-e-Qadr in this month. Shab-e-Qadr is that great night in which the worship that is performed in it is better than 1000 months; in search of the same sacred night our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once observed I’tikaf for the whole month of Ramadan.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always try his best to gain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly worship especially in Ramadan. As Layla-tul-Qadr is hidden in Ramadan, the Prophet of Ra h mah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once observed I’tikaf for the entire month in search of this blessed night.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated, ‘Once the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed I’tikaf from the 1 st of Ramadan to the 20 th and then

said, ‘In search of Layla-tul-Qadr, I spent the first ten days of Ramadan in I’tikaf, and then the middle ten days, then I was told that it is in the last ten days. Therefore, whoever amongst you wishes to observe I’tikaf with me should do so.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 594, Hadees 1167)

Dear Islamic brothers! If possible, observe I’tikaf for the entire month of Ramadan every year. If this is not possible, then observe I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan at least once in your life. Staying in the Masjid is a great blessing, a Mu’takif is so fortunate that he stays in the Masjid leaving all his activities in order to gain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! If not every year then at least once in your life try to observe I’tikaf for the whole month acting upon the Sunnah of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, observing I’tikaf has countless blessings, because if Muslims try, they can protect themselves from sins for as long as they are in I’tikaf. Furthermore, a special blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is that the good deeds which a Muslim performs outside the Masjid when he is not in I’tikaf, will continue to be recorded in his book of deeds even though he is in I’tikaf and he will attain their rewards as well.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

هُوَ يَعۡكِفُ الذُّنُوۡبَ وَ يُجۡرٰي لَه ٗ مِنَ الۡحَسَنَاتِ كَعَامِلِ الۡحَسَنَاتِ كُلِّهَا

A Mu’takif remains safe from sins and the reward of good deeds will be given to him as it is given to the performers of good deeds.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 365, Hadees 1781)

Elaborating on the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The immediate advantage of I’tikaf is that it prevents the Mu’takif from sins because many sins like backbiting, lies, tale-bearing etc. are committed when amongst the people. A Mu’takif keeps himself distant from the world, and the person who comes to meet him (keeping in mind the respect of the Masjid and I’tikaf) does not speak bad things nor does he make others to do so.

(He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said that) Due to I’tikaf, good deeds such as visiting the graveyard, meeting Muslims, visiting the sick, attending a funeral Salah etc. from which the Mu’takif is deprived of doing due to the I’tikaf, he will continue to attain their rewards as it is given to the performers of these deeds. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 217)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! On behalf of Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah, congregational I’tikafs are held in various cities around the world in which a proper training schedule is presented on behalf of Majlis-e-Shura. In this training schedule, an effort is made to do Madani Tarbiyyat of the lovers of Ramadan who observe I’tikaf according to the schedule given by Majlis-e-Shura. The congregational I’tikaf began like this:

A few years before the launching of Dawat-e-Islami, in the blessed month of Ramadan, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه observed I’tikaf alone in ‘Noor Masjid’, Kaghazi Bazar Meethadar, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) where he used to lead the Salah. The following year, 2 Islamic brothers joined him thorough his individual efforts. Then by the blessings and friendly attitude of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, a year came when this number reached 28 brothers; the fame of this congregational I’tikaf spread far and wide.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami was established in that same year and the first congregational I’tikaf by Dawat-e-Islami was conducted in the very first Madani Markaz, ‘Gulzar-e-Habib Masjid’ (Gulistan-e-Okarvi, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi) observed by 60 Islamic brothers in the company of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, and until today, this congregational I’tikaf has not only been observed in Pakistan but is also observed in different countries, thus, this whole-month congregational I’tikaf and the last 10-days Sunnah I’tikaf are observed in numerous Masajid throughout the world in which thousands of Islamic brothers become Mu’takifeen, and besides other acts of worship they acquire Islamic knowledge and learn the blessed Sunnah. In addition to this, many Mu’takifeen travel with Madani Qafilahs at the end of this blessed month in the night of the new moon, with lovers of the Beloved Rasool for one month, 12-days or a 3-day Madani Qafilah to learn the blessed Sunnah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to attain the blessings of this I’tikaf and Madani pearls, many lovers of Ramadan are privileged to participate in the 63-day Madani Tarbiyyati course, 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course or the 12-day Madani Course. We should also try our best to attain the blessings of these great moments. In order to attain these blessings you are also advised to contact the responsible Islamic brothers today and obtain a congregational I’tikaf form; fill it out after reading it well then submit it to Madani Tarbiyyat centre.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At the global Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi), thousands of lovers of the Beloved Rasool are privileged to observe I’tikaf for the entire month and the last ten days of Ramadan. The lovers of Ramadan, who want to observe I’tikaf in the company of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه at the global Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi), should submit their forms immediately, with the permission of the concerned Nigran-e-Division Mushawarat or Nigran-e-Kabinah, so that in case of delay they may not face any problem due to a shortage of space.

The congregational I’tikaf has plenty of Madani parables. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of a congregational I’tikaf for our persuasion:

‘Abdur Razzaq ‘Attari, an Islamic brother of Hyderabad (Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh Pakistan) was in charge of a laboratory in the Tando Adam Agricultural University. His two sons were associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami but he was far away from Salah and the Sunnah. He had a completely secular mindset.

In Ramadan, when he was invited, through individual efforts, to take part in the collective I’tikaf, he said: ‘The mother of my children has fallen out with me and gone to her parents’ home; will she come back, if I do I’tikaf?’ He was told that she would come back, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool, he took part in the collective I’tikaf that was held in Faizan-e-Madinah (Hyderabad) in the last ten days of Ramadan, in 1416 AH, 1995. The learning sessions, Sunnah-Inspiring speeches, heart-rending

supplications and pleasant Na’ats caused a Madani transformation in his heart. He repented of his sins, made a firm intention to offer his Salah, grew a beard and wore a green blessed ‘Imamah and began to recite Na’ats. During the I’tikaf, the mother of his children also returned home and their domestic issues were mended.

Due to the blessings of I’tikaf, he associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, grew his beard and began to wear a green ‘Imamah and clothes according to the Sunnah. He also travelled with Madani Qafilahs. Whilst remaining associated with the Madani environment, he passed away the same year on Thursday the 27 th of Rabi’-un-Noor 1416 AH (1995). اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّآ اِلَيۡهِ رٰجِعُوۡنَ He was so fortunate. At the time of his death, he was reciting the following couplets of a Na’at:

جیسے مِرے سرکار ہیں ایسا نہیں کوئی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

جَلوۂ یار کی آرزو ہے اگر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

میٹھے آقا کریں گے کرم کی نظر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

چوٹ کھا جائے گا اک نہ اک روز دل مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

فَضلِ رَبّ سے ہدایت بھی جائے گی مل مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

تم کو راحت کی نعمت اگر چاہئے مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

بندگی کی بھی لذّت اگر چاہئے مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

تنگدستی کا حل بھی نکل آئے گا مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

روزگار اِن شَآءَ الله مل جائے گا مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

سیکھنے زندگی کا قرینہ چلو مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

دیکھنا ہے جو میٹھا مدینہ چلو مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

موت فضلِ خُدا سے ہو ایمان پر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

رَبّ کی رحمت سے جنّت میں پاؤ گے گھر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

مان بھی جاؤ عطار کی اِلتِجَا مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

ہوگا راضی خُدا، خُوش شہِ انبیاء مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

In order to become regular in offering Salah and performing other virtuous deeds, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will attain lots of goodness of the world and the Hereafter. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Until now, Dawat-e-Islami is serving the Sunnah in approximately 103 departments, Jami’a-tul-Madinah is one of them.

According to the wish of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat for propagating Islamic knowledge everywhere, in 1995, the first campus of Jami’a-tul-Madinah was inaugurated under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami on the second floor of Madrasa-tul-Madinah’s building situated at Godrah Colony New Karachi, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi). With the passage of time, many other campuses of Jami’a-tul-Madinah were also opened.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In Jami’a-tul-Madinah, students are also trained morally and ethically for developing the habit of piety and abstinence along with enlightening their hearts with the light of ‘Ilm-e-Deen.

Dear Islamic brothers! Jami’a-tul-Madinah for boys and girls has been established in various countries of the world including Pakistan, India, South Africa, England, Nepal and Bangladesh, in which, tens of thousands of Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters are studying the Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalim/‘Aalimah course). Free education is provided (along with accommodation, meals and other facilities according to the need). Students (male & female) from the Jami’aat of Dawat-e-Islami have been achieving remarkable success for many years now in the examinations held by Tanzeem-ul-Madaris (Pakistan), which

the main national organization for Madaris of the Ahl-e-Sunnat. Sometimes, these students obtain 1 st, 2 nd and 3 rd positions every year as well.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تِری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard about ‘Welcoming Ramadan’:

§ Before this blessed month arrived, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would mention the glory and dignity of this blessed month to the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and would persuade them to observe fasts and offer Taraweeh .

§ It also contains persuasions for us as well, therefore, we should also give a great welcome to this sacred month and sincerely repent of our sins, perform lots of good deeds, offer Salahs regularly, offer Taraweeh regularly and give lots of Sadaqat (charity). If possible, we should also try to collect Madani donations for Dawat-e-Islami from our relatives, friends, and neighbours along with our own Sadaqat-e-Wajibah and Naafilah according to the organizational methods.

§ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, All these acts are good deeds and in the sacred month of Ramadan, a reward for one good deed is 70 times more than the normal days. In this way, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be able to have lots of good deeds in our book of deeds.

§ This great night has been declared as more superior to 1000 months in the Holy Quran. Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe I’tikaf in order to search for Shab-e-Qadr, and once he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed I’tikaf for the whole month of Ramadan. Therefore, acting upon

the beautiful Sunnah of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we should also observe the whole-month I’tikaf at least once in our life. All the Islamic brothers should try to observe the whole-month Tarbiyyati I’tikaf in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By virtue of its blessings, we will be able to acquire more Islamic knowledge, develop the passion for acting upon it, worship easily and will be able to protect ourselves from sins, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the sneeze (of a person) and does not like the yawn (of a person). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2. When one sneezes and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, the angels say ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ and if he says, ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ the angels say, ‘ May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you’. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3. Lower your head, cover your face as you sneeze, and sneeze in a low sound as it is foolish to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

1. One should say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ after sneezing. It is better to say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ ’ or ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ (it is stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan on page 3 with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Sunnat-e-Muakkadah to recite the Hamd of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after sneezing).

2. It is Wajib for the one who hears the sneezer, to say ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’ (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you) immediately in such an audible voice that the one who sneezed can hear it. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 119)

3. Upon hearing ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’, the person who sneezed should say ‘ يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَيُصۡلِحُ بَالَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

4. Whoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ after sneezing and passes his tongue over all his teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will be safe from dental diseases.

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

5. Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘Whosoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ upon sneezing, he will never suffer from pain in the molars or from an earache.’ (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499, Taht-al-Hadees 4739)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

