Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan: 3

30 Thousand dirhams . 4

Virtues of Islamic knowledge in blessed Ahadees . 6

Introduction to book ‘Faizan ‘Ilm-o-‘Ulama’ 8

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s affection for students of Islamic knowledge . 12

Satanic thoughts and their cure . 13

King who would respect knowledge . 14

Imam-e-A’zam’s intelligence and wisdom ... 14

Disadvantage of lack of knowledge . 16

First hurdle . 18

Second hurdle . 18

Third hurdle . 18

Participate in the 12 Madani activities . 18

Madani parable . 19

Introduction to Majlis-e-Tarajim (Translation Department) . 20

Help Dawat-e-Islami! 20

Month of Madani In’amaat 23

Du’a of Attar . 23

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 24

2. All sins forgiven .. 24

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 25

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 25

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 25

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 26

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 26

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 26

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Excellence and Importance of Islamic Knowledge

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel who will send that Salat to my grave, as gifts are presented to you.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22355)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan:

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

30 Thousand dirhams

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Wahhab Bin ‘Ata Khaffaaf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When in the reign of Khilafat of Banu Umayyah, Sayyiduna Abu ‘Abdur Rahman Farrookh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Khurasan to guard the boundaries, his wife was expecting a baby. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left 30 thousand dinars with his wife. When he returned to Madinah Munawwarah after 27 years, he reached his home and pushed his door inside with a spear Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out. As he saw an armed man he furiously said: O bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Do you want to attack my home? Sayyiduna Farrookh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: No, I do not want to attack. You tell me how dare you enter my home! Then they both started having an argument. When they were about to fight each other their neighbours intervened and they did not fight.

When Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Anas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and other people knew about it they immediately came. Upon the interruption of Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Anas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه Abu ‘Abdur Rahman Farrookh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him: My name is Farrookh and it is my home. His wife who was listening to all the conversation behind the door recognized him and said: He is my husband and Rabee’ah is his son. Rabee’ah was in my womb when he went in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Having heard this both father and son hugged each other and became tearful out of joy.

Sometime after having a meal and taking rest Sayyiduna Abu ‘Abdur Rahman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked his wife: Where are the 30 thousand dinars which I left? She humbly replied: I have buried it somewhere and will take it out after some days. In the meantime, Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to conduct Halqah of Dars (teaching Islamic class) in the Masjid and started giving Dars of Hadees. When Sayyiduna Farrookh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the Masjid to offer Salah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a Halqah was arranged and people were gaining Islamic knowledge with great respect and attention and a handsome young man was giving them a Dars. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked the people: Who is he imparting Islamic knowledge? People said: He is Rabee’ah son of Abu ‘Abdur Rahman. Having heard this he became very happy and said: What a great status Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed my son with!

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then went back to his home and said to his wife: Today I have seen your son’s great status; he is the ocean of Islamic knowledge. His wife said: Do you want your 30 thousand dinars or this greatness and loftiness of your son. He replied: I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I do not want anything in return for this great blessing of my son. His wife said: Then listen to me! I spent all the dinars on your son to provide him with Islamic knowledge. Having heard this he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You did not waste my money, but rather spent it in a very proper way. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 2, pp. 55)

میں سب دولت رہِ حق میں لُٹا دوں

شہا ایسا مجھے جذبہ عطا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable it has been understood that Islamic knowledge is a great blessing and surely it is a great privilege to spend money for gaining it. It used to be the thought of our pious predecessors that’s why the mother of Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent a large amount of money on his education and upbringing. When the father of Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew about it that his son attained a great status after gaining Islamic knowledge spending his money, so he became happy and told his wife: You did not waste my money, but rather spent it on a very good cause. Therefore, we should not only gain Islamic knowledge ourselves, but should also provide our children with it. Islamic knowledge has great virtues. The virtues of knowledge and Islamic scholars have been mentioned at many places in the Holy Quran. It is stated in Ayah 18 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 3:

شَهِدَ اللّٰهُ اَنَّهٗ لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا هُوَۙ-وَ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ وَ اُولُوا الْعِلْمِ قَآىٕمًۢا بِالْقِسْطِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah has testified that there is none worthy of worship but Him, and so did the angels and those of knowledge, while maintaining justice.

The father of A’la Hadrat, Mufti Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Three virtues of knowledge are proved by the blessed Ayah: First, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the mention of Islamic scholars with Himself and angels. Secondly, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also made Islamic scholars the witness of His oneness like angels and declared their testimony to be the evidence of Him being the One Who is worthy to be worshipped. Thirdly, the testimony of them (these Islamic scholars) has also been considered to be authentic like the testimony of angels. (Faizan ‘Ilm-o-‘Ulama, pp. 9; summarized)

Similarly, at another place in the Holy Quran, the glory and greatness of scholars have been stated like this:

یَرْفَعِ اللّٰهُ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا مِنْكُمْۙ-وَ الَّذِیْنَ اُوْتُوا الْعِلْمَ دَرَجٰتٍؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah will raise the (excellent) believers amongst you, and those who are given knowledge, to high ranks.

(Part 28, Surah Al-Mujadalah, Ayah 11)

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: The status of Islamic scholars will be elevated 700 hundred times more than the status of ordinary believers; there is a distance of 500 years between every two levels.

(Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 241)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! If an ordinary Muslim is blessed with Paradise, it is sufficient for him, but feel envy at the luck of an Islamic scholar who will not only be blessed with Paradise, but his status will also be elevated 700 times more than the status of ordinary believers in Paradise.

Virtues of Islamic knowledge in blessed Ahadees

Dear Islamic brothers! The excellence of Islamic knowledge is clearly understood from the above-mentioned blessed Ayah. Plenty of virtues of Islamic knowledge have also been mentioned in a large number of blessed Ahadees apart from the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to three blessed Ahadees and

develop the importance of Islamic knowledge in the heart and also incline our children, relatives and friends to gain Islamic knowledge. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

1. The person, who leaves [his home] to gain Islamic knowledge, is in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until he returns. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 294, Raqm 2656)

2. The one who learns one or two or three or four or five Kalimat [i.e. words] about the Faraaid [obligatory acts] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and memorizes them properly, and then teaches them to people, will enter Paradise .

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 54, Hadees 20)

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will resurrect bondmen on the Judgement Day. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ then will separate Islamic scholars and say to them: O the group of Islamic scholars! I know you that’s why I bestowed knowledge upon you, and [I] did not give you knowledge for making you suffer torment. Go! I have forgiven you. (Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm-o-Fazlah, pp. 69, Hadees 211)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood from the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees that gaining Islamic knowledge is the cause of pleasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, source of forgiveness and salvation and a guarantee of entering Paradise. سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, how great the virtues of Islamic knowledge are! ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Knowledge is not something whose excellence and virtues need to be mentioned. The whole world knows that knowledge is something much better, and gaining it is a sign of eminence. It is the thing through which human life becomes successful and pleasant; it is the thing that makes the world and the Hereafter better. This knowledge means the knowledge that is gained from the Holy Quran and Hadees. It is the knowledge that makes the world and the Hereafter both better. It is the knowledge that brings about salvation and it is the same knowledge that has been praised in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees and our attention has been focused on its education.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 618)

Knowledge is the legacy of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام ; knowledge is the way of getting close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; knowledge is the source of guidance; knowledge is the source of protection from sins; knowledge is a great method of developing fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; knowledge is the source of attaining respect in this world and the Hereafter; knowledge brings dead hearts to life; knowledge protects the faith; knowledge is the source of attaining people’s love. In short, knowledge has countless virtues, containing both religious and worldly benefits, comfort and satisfaction, pleasure and also peace, therefore, wise is he who gets busy gaining Islamic knowledge to attain salvation in the Hereafter.

یہی ہے آرزو تعلیمِ قرآں عام ہوجائے

ہر اِک پرچم سے اُونچا پرچمِ اِسلام ہو جائے

Introduction to book ‘Faizan ‘Ilm-o-‘Ulama’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the importance of Islamic knowledge in the heart it will be very effective to read the booklet ‘ Faizan ‘Ilm-o-‘Ulama ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. You will find the following topics in this book: Importance of gaining Islamic knowledge, excellence of knowledge and Islamic scholars, reward for attending the gathering of (Islamic) knowledge, details about the difficulties in gaining Islamic knowledge and methods to overcome them and the details about serving Islamic knowledge and Islamic scholars. So, buy this book today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Study it yourself and also persuade others to do so. This book can be read, downloaded or printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! Nowadays we are losing the respect of Islamic knowledge. Majority of people in our society are neither themselves inclined to get Islamic education, nor do they give their children Islamic education. They give their children lots of worldly education of different subjects for their bright future, but pay no attention to give them Islamic education for making

their own and their children’s Hereafter better. If a child is intelligent, so parents desire to make him a doctor, engineer, professor or a computer programmer and if the child is dull, then they get him enrolled in a Dar-ul-‘Uloom or a Jami’ah in order to get rid of him. On the other hand, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to give their children Islamic education since their childhood, even great kings also used to give their children Islamic education because they themselves used to value knowledge and Islamic scholars.

Caliph Haroon Rasheed was very pious and the one who knew the value and respect of knowledge. Once he humbly requested Imam Kisa`ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for the education of his son [Mamoon Rasheed] so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I will not come to teach here; the prince may come to my home. Haroon Rasheed humbly said: He will come to your home, but can he be taught first? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: It is not possible, but rather the one who will come first, will be taught first. In short, Mamoon Rasheed started studying. One day by chance Caliph Haroon Rasheed passed by. While passing by he saw that Imam Kisa`ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was washing his feet and his son Mamoon Rasheed was pouring water. The king furiously dismounted from his horse, whipped Mamoon Rasheed and said: O disrespectful! Why did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless you with two hands? Pour water with one hand and wash his feet with the other hand. (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 144)

Dear Islamic brothers! Caliph Haroon Rasheed not only had great reverence for Islamic scholars and blessed jurisprudents رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, but he would also prefer the opinions of Islamic scholars and jurisprudents in the affairs of his kingdom and in other religious and worldly matters. He would consider their advice final and would seek their advice for the betterment of the Hereafter. Sometimes in order to get advice he would himself go to the court of Islamic scholars and if they would come to his court, he would stand up for them out of respect not caring about his dignity and awe of the kingdom.

It is stated in Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat: When an Islamic scholar would come to the court of Haroon Rasheed, the king would stand up out of his reverence. Once the courtiers humbly asked: O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! The dignity of kingship is reduced. He replied: If the dignity of kingship is reduced due to revering Islamic scholars, so it is worthy to be reduced.

(Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 145)

Similarly, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made an extremely nice arrangement for the education and upbringing of his children. He appointed a great Muhaddis Sayyiduna Saalih Bin Keesaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as the teacher of his children who had also been his teacher.

(At-Tuhfa-tut-Tayfah fi Tareekh-ul-Madinah, vol. 1, pp. 233)

It is narrated about the respected father of Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: Though he was not educated himself, but he knew the significance of Islamic knowledge. That’s why he wished for both of his sons, ‘Muhammad Ghazali’ and ‘Ahmad Ghazali’ رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی to gain knowledge of Shari’ah and Tareeqah. For this purpose, he saved some wealth which greatly helped both of his sons to gain Islamic knowledge.

(Ithaf-ul-Sadaat-il-Muttaqeen, vol. 1, pp. 9; summarized)

Likewise, our Ghaus-e-Pak Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had reached Baghdad in his childhood for gaining Islamic knowledge with the permission of his mother. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 167; summarized)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also started gaining Islamic knowledge since his childhood. He completed the Naazirah of the Holy Quran at a very young age of 4 years and 6 months and then just at the age of 13 years, 10 months and 4 days he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed gaining knowledge of all the subjects generally studied in his era from his respected father Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and received the degree of completion of his education.

(Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 85, 91)

Dear Islamic brothers! From these events it has been understood that our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to make their children busy gaining Islamic knowledge from their childhood. Giving good upbringing to our children we should also try to provide Islamic knowledge to our children. It is extremely necessary to give children upbringing as per Sunnah so that they can be made righteous and be protected from the Hell whose fuels are humans and stones.

In Ayah 6 of Surah At-Tahreem, part 28 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا قُوْۤا اَنْفُسَكُمْ وَ اَهْلِیْكُمْ نَارًا وَّ قُوْدُهَا النَّاسُ وَ الْحِجَارَةُ عَلَیْهَا مَلٰٓىٕكَةٌ غِلَاظٌ شِدَادٌ لَّا یَعْصُوْنَ اللّٰهَ مَاۤ اَمَرَهُمْ وَ یَفْعَلُوْنَ مَا یُؤْمَرُوْنَ(۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Save yourselves and your families from the fire, the fuel of which are men and stones, appointed over it are the extremely powerful angels, who do not refuse the command of Allah and do as they are commanded. (Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, Ayah 6)

Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, regarding the part (یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا قُوْۤا اَنْفُسَكُمْ وَ اَهْلِیْكُمْ نَارًا) of above-mentioned Ayah: By obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, carrying out acts of worship, refraining from sins, guiding your family members towards righteousness and preventing them from evils and providing them with Islamic education and teaching them manners (s ave yourselves and your families from the fire!) The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ كُلُّكُمۡ رَاعٍ وَّكُلُّكُمۡ مَسۡئُوۡلٌ عَنۡ رَعِيَّتِهٖ ’ All of you are chiefs and rulers of your family members and on the Day of Judgement, every one of you will be asked about his dependants.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 309, Hadees 893)

Regarding this Hadees, ‘Allamah Mufti Muhammad Sharif-ul-Haq Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘ رَعِيَّت ’ [Ra’iyyat] (dependants) means that those who are under someone’s supervision. For example, people are under the supervision of the kings and rulers, children under parents, students under teachers and disciples under their spiritual guides. Similarly, it is Wajib for the wife, children or servants to look after the wealth which is entrusted to them. If someone does not have anyone under his supervision so he is a custodian of his body parts and limbs, actions and sayings, his timings and his affairs. He will be held accountable for all of them. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 530)

Dear Islamic brothers! Feeling the sense of responsibility parents should take care of the good upbringing of their children. They should make them offer Salah and observe Sawm regularly. They should also make them aware of the Shar’i commandments of obligatory and Wajib acts, Halal and Haraam, sale and purchase and the rights of people, etc. The best source of providing children with Islamic knowledge is to make them undergo Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalim course) so that they can gain Islamic knowledge and then impart it to others and bring about our Hereafter salvation.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For achieving this purpose, the Jami’a-tul-Madinah of Dawat-e-Islami has been established. In Jami’a-tul-Madinah, students are not only provided with Islamic knowledge, but they are also given moral upbringing so that they can become pious and abstinent. In this regard, the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah travel with the Madani Qafilahs in the company of devotees of Rasool according to the schedule. Some fortunate students even have the privilege of traveling with Madani Qafilah for 12 months. Acting upon the 92 Madani In’amaat given by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه they fill out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily and then submit it to the responsible Islamic brother of their class of Zayli Mushawarat every Madani month.

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s affection for students of Islamic knowledge

Being pleased with this progress of the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in his remarks: I have a deep affection for the students of Dawat-e-Islami’s Jami’aat and Madaris and make Du’a of my forgiveness for their sake. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our students offer different Nafl Salahs in addition to the Fard five-time Salahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ many of our students offer Salat-ut-Taubah, Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht Salahs. Thousands of students also submit their Madani In’amaat booklets after filling them up and countless students travel with Madani Qafilahs.

There are also many such students who have responsibilities for the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami in the surrounding areas of these Jami’aat and Madaris. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they are offering their religious services in many Masajid.

اَللّٰهُمَّ زِدۡ فَزِدۡ ثُمَّهۡ زِدۡ means, Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, increase and further increase and then increase more. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 589)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Satanic thoughts and their cure

Dear Islamic brothers! By virtue of the blessings of gaining Islamic knowledge not only one gets the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but His pious bondmen also love the students of Islamic knowledge. Therefore, you should also gather courage and get your children enrolled in the Jami’aat of Dawat-e-Islami and get your name and the names of your children enrolled in the list of fortunate people. The purpose for providing children with worldly education after making them deprived of Islamic education is only to get worldly benefits and parents feel that if their children are inclined to gain Islamic knowledge, so مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ their future will become dark. How will they start their life and run their home affairs? How will they fulfil their needs in a limited income?

In short, such countless satanic thoughts strike a person’s mind due to which some people get deprived of giving their children Islamic education. First of all, such parents are requested that the purpose of a Muslim’s work should be to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of the world and especially in the matters of gaining Islamic knowledge he should have the intention to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ purely. As far as wealth is concerned it is hoped from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He will not leave alone those who gain knowledge of His religion [Islam]. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The one who will gain Islamic knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will ease his difficulties and will bestow sustenance upon him from the place from where he has not thought about.

(Jaami’-ul-Bayan, pp. 66, Hadees 198)

It has also been experienced that those who gain Islamic knowledge with perfect sincerity and hard work are living a better life than many worldly

people; many great rulers and senior officers kiss the hands of Islamic scholars, work for them and consider it a privilege to serve them devotedly.

King who would respect knowledge

It has been narrated that once caliph Haroon Rasheed invited Abu Mu’awiyah ‘Azeez رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who was blind. When a Lota for washing hands and the pot from which hands and mouth are washed were brought at the time of having a meal, caliph Haroon Rasheed gave the pot to the servant and washed the hands of Abu Mu’awiyah ‘Azeez رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself after taking the Lota in his hand and said: Do you know who is pouring water onto your hands? He replied: No. The king humbly said: Haroon. (So making Du’a for him Abu Mu’awiyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) said: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ respect you the way you have respected knowledge. Haroon Rasheed said: I did all this in order to obtain this Du’a. (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 145; summarized)

Imam-e-A’zam’s intelligence and wisdom

Similarly, it has been narrated about Sayyiduna Qadi Abu Yusuf Ya’qoob Bin Ibraheem رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he became an orphan in his childhood; his mother made him work with a washer-man so that she could run the home. Once he went to the gathering of Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and liked so much the things which were being mentioned in the gathering that he started sitting in that gathering instead of working with the washer-man.

When her mother knew she took him to the washer-man. When the matter got further severe, his mother said to Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: There is no one to bring this child up. I send him to the washer-man so that he can earn something, but you have spoilt him. Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: O the fortunate! Let him gain knowledge. The day is not far when he will be eating the halvah of almonds and pure ghee and nice Faloodah. Having heard this the mother of Imam Abu Yusuf got very displeased and said: (Are you making fun of us) how can poor people like us eat the halvah of almonds and pure ghee?

Imam Abu Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه continued to gain Islamic knowledge with steadfastness and the time came when the post of Qada (chief justice) was

handed over to him. Once the caliph invited him and during the feast the caliph said putting forward the halvah of almonds and pure ghee and nice Faloodah: O Imam! Eat this halvah. It is not easy for us to get such halvah prepared everyday. Having heard this Imam Abu Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recalled the words of Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and started smiling. When the caliph asked he replied: My respected teacher Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to my mother years ago: This son of yours will eat the halvah of almonds and pure ghee and Faloodah. Today the statement of my respected teacher has come true. He then related the whole event of his childhood to the caliph so he became very surprised and said: Undoubtedly knowledge definitely benefits and makes a person attain great status in the world and the Hereafter.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 278; summarized)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! This parable contains many Madani pearls for us. It has also been understood that pious saints can see the events that will take place in the future by virtue of their intelligence and wisdom. The special attention of a good teacher makes a person something very special. Further, it has also been learnt that Islamic knowledge brings about success in the world and the Hereafter both. Even renowned worldly people do not attain the status and rank which the devotees of knowledge easily attain. Therefore, we should not only gain Islamic knowledge ourselves, but we should also provide Islamic knowledge to our children for their good upbringing.

Remember! After death no other thing will help but righteous deeds. Wealth, bank balance, beautiful buildings, big cars, worldly status and rank all will be left here, nothing out of them will go into the grave with the dead. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When a person dies, all his deeds are discontinued except for three deeds – (1) Sadaqah Jaariyah (permanent source of Divine reward) (2) the knowledge from which benefit is obtained and (3) righteous children who make Du’a for him.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 886, Hadees 1631)

Disadvantage of lack of knowledge

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that Sadaqah which brings permanent source of reward, propagation of Islamic knowledge and righteous children are the deeds that one continues to receive their reward even after the death. Therefore, get ready to provide your children with Islamic education and get them enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. At present, one of the greatest evils is ignorance that is on top of the other evils of the society whether it is the matter of home or business, friends or relatives, Nikah or the good upbringing, in short, not only in the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the rights of people, but also in every field of life where these faults are found if we ponder seriously so it will become clear to us that the main and prominent cause of these faults is lack of Islamic knowledge. Due to the lack of Islamic knowledge and having no correct guidance different types of evils and faults are increasing rapidly not only in matters and ethics, but also in beliefs and acts of worship. In order to overcome them it is not sufficient to gain only Islamic knowledge, but one should act upon his knowledge and through this knowledge try to reform other people.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given the following Madani mission by making the mind of his disciples, well-wishers, family members and friends to reform themselves and others: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . As a result of his love for knowledge and the eagerness of propagating Islamic knowledge, hundreds of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah have been established both in Pakistan and abroad under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah.

The first campus of Jami’a-tul-Madinah was inaugurated under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami at Godrah Colony New Karachi, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) in 1995. In this campus, three respected teachers started teaching ‘Aalim course (Dars-e-Nizami) to Islamic brothers. In a short period of time, this building became insufficient for the students gaining Islamic knowledge. So this Jami’a-tul-Madinah was shifted to a huge building in the neighbourhood of Jaami’ Masjid Faizan ‘Usman-e-Ghani, Gulistan-e-Jauhar in 1998. By virtue

of the great persuasion for Islamic knowledge of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and preachers of Dawat-e-Islami, not only hundreds of thousands of devotees of Rasool travelled with the Madani Qafilahs [which travel in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] of Dawat-e-Islami, but also a large number of Islamic brothers joined Jami’a-tul-Madinah to gain Islamic knowledge besides travelling with Madani Qafilahs.

In this way, many more branches of Jami’a-tul-Madinah were opened all over the world especially in Pakistan. Until now only in Pakistan 402 Jami’aat separately for boys and girls have been established in which approximately 26,013 male and female students are undergoing Dars-e-Nizami and hundreds of Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters have completed their studies. You also include your name amongst the fortunate people and get your children enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. Moreover, make individual efforts upon your brothers, friends and relatives and also make their mind to get their children enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. It will not only propagate knowledge and overcome ignorance, but will also become a permanent source of reward for you.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember, it is not sufficient to get your children enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah for gaining Islamic knowledge, but parents and guardians should also keep asking their children from time to time. They should contact their teachers and ask about their children’s educational and moral progress report. If they find the performance better, they should praise and appreciate their abilities and if they find any weakness or deficiency, they should know the reasons and advise them softly and lovingly. If there is any hurdle, they should try to overcome it. There are some hurdles due to which generally students become lazy in getting education. Some of the hurdles and their solutions are presented so that in the light of them we can guide our children in a better way and can make them continue to gain Islamic knowledge.

First hurdle

Constant hard work and steadfastness are necessary for gaining Islamic knowledge. Nafs gets tired of this hard work and suggests the person to escape from it. A student should make his mind that a little hard work in this world for gaining Islamic knowledge will bring about great ranks and status for him in the Hereafter.

Second hurdle

The sad and unfortunate aspect of our society is that here the status and rank is not given to the student who gain Islamic knowledge which he really deserves. At such a difficult time it should be remembered that there is no respect of this world as compared to the respect of the Hereafter. The person, who gives up receiving Islamic education in order to earn the respect of this world, disgraces himself in reality.

Third hurdle

Sometimes the desire for wealth becomes a hurdle in gaining Islamic knowledge. At that time it should be kept in mind that the person who prefers the desire of Islamic knowledge to gaining wealth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not make him needy. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would behave very gracefully towards the learned people. He was asked, ‘Why don’t you treat all equally?’ He replied, ‘After the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم I do not consider anyone’s status elevated except the scholars; even if a single scholar gets distracted due to his needs, he will not be able to serve Islam in a proper way and will not be able to pay his proper attention to Islamic education. Therefore, it is a preferable act to liberate them for scholarly services.’ (Ziya-e-Sadaqat, pp. 172)

Participate in the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! If you want to lead a life following the footsteps of Allah-loving people, gain Islamic knowledge, protect your life from sins and spend it in performing virtuous deeds associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami a global non-political movement of preaching

Quran and Sunnah and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah of Dawat-e-Islami.

One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘Madani Halqah after Salat-ul-Fajr’, which includes the recitation of three Quranic Ayahs along with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and Tafseer (interpretation) from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan/Noor-ul-‘Irfan/Siraat-ul-Jinaan, followed by a Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat (4 pages) and the recitation of Shajarah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah Ziyaiyyah ‘Attariyyah.

In blessed Ahadees, many virtues have been mentioned for reciting, teaching and learning the Holy Quran. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran, and teaches it to others.

(Sahih Bukhari, Fadaail-ul-Quran, Hadees 5027)

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The person who learns the Holy Quran and teaches it and acts upon whatever is in it, (so on the Judgement Day) the Holy Quran will intercede on his behalf and will take him to Paradise. (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 41, pp. 3, Hadees 1045; Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 10, pp. 198, Hadees 10450)

Madani parable

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to avoid non-Islamic fashion, adopt the Sunnah and develop love for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart, develop the yearning and passion for reciting the Holy Quran, and especially highlight the importance of Islamic knowledge associate yourself with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami a global and non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah. Here is a pleasant and faith-refreshing Madani parable for your persuasion.

A modern young man of Indor city (M.P. India) was blessed with the privilege of observing collective I’tikaf organised by Dawat-e-Islami in the last ten days of the Ramadan in 1426 AH. By virtue of the Madani environment of Dawat-e- Islami and the company of devotees of Rasool a Madani transformation took place in his heart. He grew his beard and started wearing the green ‘Imamah.

He also travelled for 12 days with a Madani Qafilah in order to learn Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He became a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Until now, he is busy serving Dawat-e-Islami in his city as the Nigran (responsible Islamic brother) of a Halqah Mushawarat.

Introduction to Majlis-e-Tarajim (Translation Department)

Dawat-e-Islami is a pure Islamic and non-political movement of propagating the message of Islam all over the world. It aims to give this Madani mind-set to every Muslim that ‘ I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at present, sins are being committed everywhere in the society. Under such conditions, the existence of Dawat-e-Islami is not less than a blessing. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is working approximately in more than 103 departments for teaching Sunnah and propagating the call towards righteousness. ‘Majlis-e-Tarajim’ is one of them which is carrying out the service of translating books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Maktaba-tul-Madinah into different 36 languages including Arabic, English, Sindhi, etc., so that millions of other people in the world who speak other languages except Urdu can also take advantage of these books along with Urdu readers and develop the mind-set: I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, until now, in a very short period of time, many books of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and books and booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah have been translated into different languages of the world.

Help Dawat-e-Islami!

Dawat-e-Islami is carrying out Madani activities in approximately more than 103 departments for serving Islam. To run all these departments, not only millions but billions of rupees are spent, and this is accomplished through the support and help of donors.

Remember! Dawat-e-Islami is a Madani movement that represents Islam and spreads its message. To cooperate with it in any way is, in fact, to help the

religion of Islam, and the one who helps the religion Islam, for him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ لَیَنْصُرَنَّ اللّٰهُ مَنْ یَّنْصُرُهٗؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And undoubtedly, Allah will necessarily help him who will help His religion. (Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 40)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said that the one who helps His religion, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will help him Himself. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: To help the saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, to serve a Nabi, to spread Islamic knowledge, are all the help of the religion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 537)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is a movement that propagates Islamic knowledge, saves a person from sins and makes him a true devotee of the Beloved Rasool after making him act upon the blessed Sunnah. That’s why helping it will be called helping Islam.

Remember! To help Islam with gold, silver, cash etc. is not a new act, but it is the act of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who presented the whole possessions to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon the persuasion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 380, Hadees 3695) This act is teaching us the lesson that for the propagation of Islam, a Muslim should not avoid sacrificing his wealth.

Dear Islamic brothers! For the eminence of Islam, the passion of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to sacrifice his wealth is excellent! Remember! At present, collecting donations (Madani donations) is very crucial for religious activities. The Blessed Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: In the last era, even religious work will be performed with dirham and dinar.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 20, pp. 279, Hadees 660; summarized)

From this blessed Hadees not only the knowledge of Ghayb of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been proven, but it has also been learnt that

money will be desperately needed to carry out the work of religion (Islam). Present conditions are not concealed from anyone. Dawat-e-Islami is a global and non-political movement, and therefore a large amount of money is required to fulfil its expenses. Dawat-e-Islami collects Madani donations for Madani activities throughout the year especially in Rajab-ul-Murajjab, Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, and Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, because in these particular months people are keen to give Sadaqat and charity abundantly which makes these months important opportunities for collecting donations. Therefore, from today we should give our personal donations to Dawat-e-Islami and should also make great efforts to collect Madani donations from our relatives and the people living in our area after telling them the virtues of Sadaqah in order to develop Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani activities further for earning rewards.

On page 152, volume 23 of the book Fatawa Razawiyyah, mentioning the blessed Ahadees that contain the virtues of Sadaqat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه covered these virtues in his Madani pearls:

1. بِاِذۡنِه تَعَالٰي, They will stay safe from a terrible death. Seventy doors of terrible possible deaths will be closed.

2. They will live long.

3. Sustenance will increase, wealth will be in abundance and a person will continue to have them.

4. Troubles and calamities will be removed; awful fate will go away; 70 doors of evils will be closed; 70 types of calamities will be removed.

5. Worry will vanish and satisfaction will be attained.

6. Help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be obtained.

7. The mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will become Wajib for them.

8. Angels will send Salat upon them.

9. Their sins will be forgiven, forgiveness will become Wajib for them.

10. They will gain more reward than Sadaqah by serving the people who devote themselves to serving Islam.

Their difficult work will become easy.

Love, that follows every virtue, will increase with each other.

Ranks will be elevated in the Divine court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

They will remain protected from Hell on the Day of Judgement.

They will be blessed with the favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the Hereafter.

If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills, then they will be among the blessed group which will enter Heaven first by the Wasilah (source) of sacred Na’layn (shoes) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Month of Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the month of Madani In’amaat is celebrated in the sacred month of Ramadan. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: (From 29 th Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 1438 AH to the sacred month of Ramadan) the month of Madani In’amaat will be celebrated. You also make intention to celebrate the month of Madani In’amaat and buy 12 booklets of Madani In’amaat for 12 months, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Submit the booklet of Madani In’amaat to the responsible Islamic brother of your area on the 1 st of every Madani month after filling it out.

Du’a of Attar

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Whoever acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills out the booklet daily by observing Fikr-e-Madinah and submits it to the responsible Islamic brother of his area on the 1 st of every Madani month, do not let him die until he recites the Kalimah.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

