اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Humbleness of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَنۡهُ

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me on a Friday, I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement.

(Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

اُف وہ رہِ سنگلاخ، آہ! یہ پا شاخ شاخ

اے مِرے مُشکل کُشا! تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It has been narrated that a person who was a non-Arab was sent by the king of Rome to blessed Madinah asking for the address of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ from the people. The people told him to go a little far from the city in the orchards of dates where he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ takes a rest in the afternoon. That non-Arab finally reached the place and found Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sleeping soundly on the ground resting his head on his leather whip. With the intention of assassinating Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the non-Arab drew his sword from its sheath and moved forward, but as he got closer he suddenly saw two lions with open mouths ready to attack him. Seeing this terrifying scene, he screamed out of fear. Due to this, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ woke up and saw this non-Arab trembling with a sword in his hand. Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked him the reason for his scream and fear. He related the whole incident. He then recited the Kalimah aloud and embraced Islam. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen became extremely affectionate towards him and forgave his ill-intentions. (Izala-tul-Khifa, vol. 4, pp. 109)

خدا کے فضل سے میں ہوں گدا فاروقِ اعظم کا

خدا ان کا محمد مصطفے فاروقِ اعظم کا

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable it has been learnt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protects His special bondmen Himself and sometimes He helps them from unseen sources, in such ways that none can even imagine. Furthermore, from this parable, the beautiful attributes of humbleness and humility have been learnt. He was Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen and the king of his time. If he had wanted, he could have got a grand palace constructed for himself, decorated with all luxuries and facilities, including an extremely comfortable bed, however, being humble as he was, he would rest on the bare ground. Just ponder over this! On one hand, the second caliph of the Muslims, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, who became an embodiment of humbleness by rejecting all comforts, whilst on the other hand, we are being intoxicated with wealth, worldly respect and post and start becoming arrogant.

Remember! Those who own worldly possessions and wealth and become famous, should be more careful, lest these worldly blessings become causes of displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by entrapping them in the destruction of arrogance. Arrogance is such a bad quality which disgraces a person in this world and the Hereafter. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever adopts humbleness for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant him eminence. Therefore, he will believe himself to be weak and humble, but will be great in the eyes of the people, and the one who displays arrogance, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will humiliate him. He will be inferior in the eyes of the people, but will believe himself to be superior, until he becomes worse than a dog and a pig in the eyes of the people. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul- Akhlaaq, vol.3, pp. 50, Hadees 5734)

فخر و غُرور سے تُو مولٰی مجھے بچانا

یا ربّ! مجھے بنا دے پیکر تُو عاجزی کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Arrogance is such a serious spiritual disease which leads to so many other evils and deprives a person of many virtues. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: An arrogant person does not like for his Muslim brother what he likes for himself. Such an unfortunate person remains deprived of humility which is roots of piety and self-restraint. He cannot remove cruelty and speaks lies to protect his honour. He cannot overcome his anger due to this false sense of dignity and honour. He cannot protect himself against jealousy, nor can he do anything good to others. He also remains deprived of accepting the advice of others and starts committing the sin of backbiting. An arrogant person surely commits each and every evil due to his arrogance and fails to carry out every good deed.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 423)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also said: Sometimes one’s actions and postures show his arrogance such as pulling a face, being sarcastic, frowning, staring, inclining

the head to one side, sitting with one leg over the other, eating whilst leaning against something, walking arrogantly etc. Sometimes he addresses people with inferior remarks: e.g. ‘You are nothing to me’, ‘how dare you answer back to me’ etc. In this way, different actions; postures and words reveal his arrogant attitude. Some arrogant people have all these signs, whilst others display some of these signs of arrogance. But remember! All these mentioned points would not be regarded as signs of arrogance if there is no arrogance present in the heart, by these signs alone, one cannot be regarded as being arrogant. (Derived from Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 434)

فخر و غُرور سے تُو مولٰی مجھے بچانا

یا ربّ! مجھے بنا دے پیکر تُو عاجزی کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Satan was disgraced and kicked out of the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to arrogance, but before this, Satan was not rebellious and disobedient, rather, he worshiped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for thousands of years. He served as a treasurer of Jannah. He was a jinn (genie), and due to his many acts of worship and great knowledge, he became ‘ مُعَلِّمُ المَلَكُو ۡ ت ’ (teacher of the angels).

However, within a few moments, due to his disobedience to the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by insulting Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, he destroyed his many years of worship and thousands of years of spiritual exercises, resulting in deep humiliation and disgrace that became his destiny. He has become accursed for eternity and is deserving of the eternal punishments of Hell.

Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to protect ourselves from the evil of arrogance:

1. Whoever has faith in his heart equal to even a mustard seed, he will not enter Hell and whoever has arrogance in his heart equal to even a mustard seed, he will not enter Jannah. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 61, Hadees 148)

2. On the Day of Judgement, the arrogant people will be resurrected like ants with human faces. They will be overwhelmed with humiliation and disgrace from all sides. They will be driven to a prison in Hell called ‘Boolas’ and they will be overpowered by a massive fire which will engulf them. They will be made to drink طِیۡنَۃُ الۡخَبَّال, i.e. the pus of the people of Hell. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 596, Hadees 6689)

3. The person who considers himself to be more important and walks arrogantly, will meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in such a condition that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will have wrath upon him. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 1, pp. 235, Hadees 208)

تُوْبُوْا اِلَی اللہ اَسْتَغْفِرُ اللہ

گر تکبُّر ہو دِل میں ذرّہ بھر سُن لو جنّت حرام ہوتی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to protect ourselves from the evil of arrogance, we should also become humble as humbleness has many blessings. The Angels make Du’a for the eminence of one who becomes humble. Good news is given for one who becomes humble. Those who become humble, will be sitting on pulpits (Mimbars) on the Day of Judgement. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants the wealth of humbleness upon His beloved bondmen. The person who becomes humble, is granted a high status up to the seventh sky. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mercy upon the one who becomes humble. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 999)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard a faith-refreshing parable regarding the great attribute of the ‘humbleness’ of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

His blessed Urs was celebrated on 1 st Muharram-ul-Haraam. Let’s receive the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about his blessed life. Sayyiduna Umar’s patronymic is ‘Abu Hafs’. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 239, Hadees 5042)

His title is ‘Farooq-e-A’zam’. This title was bestowed upon him from the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ the name (i.e. title) ‘Farooq’. (Tahzeeb-ul-Asma, vol. 2, pp. 325) His name was ‘Umar’ in the pre-Islamic era of ignorance as well as after embracing Islam. (Riyad-un-Nudrah, vol. 1, pp. 267) ‘Umar’ means the one who makes something flourish. Islam also flourished through Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had already granted him the name ‘Umar’.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 360)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was born in Makkah-tul-Mukarramah, 13 years after ‘Aam-ul-feel, this corresponds to 583 A.C., approximately 41 years before the Hijrah (migration). He was almost 10 years and 6 months younger than Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and almost 13 years younger than the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(‘Usd-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 4, pp. 157)

By virtue of the blessing of Allah’s grace and mercy and the blessed Du’a of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen embraced Islam in the sixth year of the declaration of Nubuwwat after 39 people had already embraced Islam. (Ar-Riyad, vol. 1, pp. 258)

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made this special Du’a: ‘ اَللّٰھُمَّ اَعِزَّ الْاِسْلامَ بِعُمَر بْنِِ الخَطَّابِ خَاصَّۃً ’ i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, bless the religion of Islam with honour and eminence especially through ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 77, Hadees 105)

When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam, the Muslims were very pleased because they received a very strong support. Thereafter, the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم together with the Muslims publically offered Salah in the Haram-e-Makkah. He remained faithful to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as a minister and advisor in all of his Islamic movements and the matters of reconciliation and battles etc., and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ selected Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as a caliph after him. Sitting on the ‘throne of Khilafah,’ he faithfully carried out all his responsibilities as a successor of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for almost 10 years and 6 months. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 108)

One of the ill-fated unbelievers named Abu Loolu Feeroz, attacked Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with a dagger, whilst he was performing Salat-ul-Fajr. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ succumbed to the fatal injury and received the honour of martyrdom on the third day of the attack. At the time of his martyrdom he was 63 years old. (Riyad-un-Nudrah, vol. 1, pp. 408 - 418)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If somebody attains the post of Khilafat or a governmental post by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is indeed a great privilege for him. He can fulfil the right of this post in a real sense when he does justice to his subjects, when he always thinks about fulfilling the rights of the people. Furthermore, he also spends his life in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and obeying His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Otherwise, the ruler who does not do these acts and performs acts of disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then there is a fear for him being humiliated and disgraced in the world and the Hereafter. Usually, when someone receives a high-ranking post, instead of giving thanks and fulfilling its requirements, he suffers from different types of spiritual diseases such as arrogance, self-appreciation, a desire for respect, etc. Sometimes he becomes so cruel that he starts depriving people of their rights,

he starts oppressing the people and even kills them by using his post in an impermissible way. He does not consider these things to be bad or evil. In such sinful conditions, it is very difficult to develop humility and forbearance. However, there had been pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who despite attaining even very high posts, remained humble and simple. Let’s listen to 4 Madani pearls full of the humbleness and humility of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

1. Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would travel out of the city etc., he would gather the sand at a place, spread a cloth over it and then rest upon it. (Al-Musannaf, vol. 21, pp. 150, Hadees 8)

2. Sayyiduna Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: On the day of Eid, I left my home (for Salah) with some people of Madinah. On the way, I saw Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ walking bare feet (to offer the Eid Salah). (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 32, Hadees 4535)

3. Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would sometimes keep his hands near a fire and question himself, ‘O son of Khattab! Do you have the strength to bear this fire?’ (Manaqib ‘Umar Bin Al-Khattab, pp. 154)

4. It is also stated that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to ask the little children of Madinah, O Children! Make Du’a for Umar’s forgiveness.’

(Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 112)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just look at the humbleness and humility of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, whilst going to the Eid Gah (a place where Eid Salah is offered) he was bare-footed even on the day of Eid. Sometimes he would gather sand as his pillow to rest upon it and sometimes, although being one who is guaranteed Jannah, he would request little children to make Du’a for his forgiveness, this was due to his deep fear of the punishments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Surely, that person who becomes humble for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is granted a high status by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The person who adopts humility for his Muslim

brother, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows eminence upon him, and that person who desires eminence over his Muslim brother, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ disgraces him.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 390, Hadees 7711)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed a very high status and rank upon Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ by virtue of the attributes like humbleness and humility. He was blessed with this honour and status by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and he did not have any desire for fame and respect from the people. Once he went to Syria and Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ubaydah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was accompanying him. He reached a place where water was knee high. Before getting off his camel, he removed his special socks and placed them on his shoulders. He then entered the water whilst holding the reins of his camel. Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ubaydah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said: O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! What you did, I do not want the people of this place to look down upon you. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘Alas! O Abu Ubaydah! If any other person except you had said this, I would have made him as an example for the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We were a nation without any possessions, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed us with honour through Islam. If we desire respect apart from the respect that we have been blessed with by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will disgrace us. (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol. 1, pp. 161)

تُو عطا حِلم کی بھیک کر دے

تجھ کو فاروق کا واسطہ ہے

میرے اَخلاق بھی ٹھیک کر دے

یا خدا ت ج ھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Just look at the humility and humbleness of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, although he was the supreme ruler of his time, yet he did not like people to respect him due to his post. He said: The respect which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted me is sufficient for me. On the other hand, we desire fame and respect and want to be praised in

every matter. Sometimes, we also desire to become famous amongst the rich and those who have high official positions, so that we receive special privileges, gifts and praises. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 188 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

لَا تَحۡسَبَنَّ الَّذِیۡنَ یَفۡرَحُوۡنَ بِمَاۤ اَتَوۡا وَّ یُحِبُّوۡنَ اَنۡ یُّحۡمَدُوۡا بِمَا لَمۡ یَفۡعَلُوۡا فَلَا تَحۡسَبَنَّہُمۡ بِمَفَازَۃٍ مِّنَ الۡعَذَابِ ۚ وَ لَہُمۡ عَذَابٌ اَلِیۡمٌ ﴿ ۱۸۸ ﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Do not ever think of those who rejoice for their deeds and wish to be praised without doing (good deeds) - do not ever think that they are safe from the punishment; and for them is a painful punishment. (Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 188)

It is stated on page 117 of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 2, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: This Ayah contains a warning for those who show off and for the ones who desire respect, appreciation and fame. When a person starts creating this desire that people become devoted to him, praise him, talk about his excellences and respect him everywhere; When he wants to be called ‘Allamah Sahib etc., although he is not an Islamic scholar, if he wants to be addressed as a builder of the nation, although he has rendered no services to the nation, if he wants to be considered as one who gives salvation, as a benefactor of the people, if he wants to be praised with excellent titles, if he wants people to meet him in a good manner, if he wants people to greet him by bowing themselves before him, then such an unfortunate person should concentrate on his heart to see if he has become a victim of the desire for respect, appreciation and fame. If this is the case then he should take a lesson from the Ayah mentioned above and he must strive to immediately remove these spiritual diseases.

Remember! That person who suffers from egotism and love for fame and respect, he is deprived of blessings especially in the Hereafter. Hypocrisy in the heart deprives a person of sincerity and makes him suffer with many problems. Furthermore, such a person can be deprived of forbidding from evil and enjoining to do good. He can be disgraced and humiliated and can be

deprived of benefits in the Hereafter. He can destroy his peace of heart along with being deprived of the wealth of sincerity. Therefore, he should abundantly study the conditions and sayings of our pious saints, realize the instability of this world and the condemnation of self-praise and matters of the Hereafter and of having posts and ranks, in this way he can start ridding himself of these wicked diseases.

Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to stay away from self-praise and love for fame and respect:

1. Whoever asks for fame, his faults will be exposed (on the Day of Judgement), and that person who performs deeds to show the people, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give him the return of it. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 247, Hadees 6499)

2. If two hungry wolves are left in a herd of goats, they do not cause as much destruction as that person who is greedy for wealth and rank, as is harmful to his religion.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

3. If arrogance were in the form of a human, it would be the ugliest human. (Al-Firdaus, vol. 2, pp. 193, Hadees 5064)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are hearing about the humility and humbleness of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He was declared to be the most superior person by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, but he never felt proud of this, nor did he ever look down upon any Muslim, but he would consider other Muslims to be better than himself.

Sayyiduna Abu Raafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Once, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by me, I was reciting the Holy Quran in a sweet accent. Having heard the recitation he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ یَا اَبَا رَافِعْ! لَاَنْتَ خَیْرٌ مِّنْ عُمَرَ تُؤَدِّیْ حَقَّ اللہِ وَحَقَّ مَوَالِیْكَ ’, i.e. O Abu Raafi’! Surely, you are better

than ‘Umar as you fulfil the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and your Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in a better way. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 386, Hadees 8613)

Dear Islamic brothers! May I be sacrificed upon the humility and humbleness of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as he is the most superior person after Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, amongst the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and he is a guaranteed Jannati. He was the greatest ruler of his time, even then, he would consider others to be better than himself. This is also part of the definition of humility, to consider yourself to be inferior to others in good qualities and superior to others in bad qualities. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 1, pp. 559)

Sayyiduna Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Humility is to consider every Muslim you meet to be superior to you, when you leave your home.

(Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol.1, pp. 163)

میں سب سے بُرا ہوں نگاہِ کرم ہو

مگر آپ کا ہُوں نگاہِ کرم ہو

‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘A sign of a person’s good fortune is that he makes his Nafs to become humble and he admits his negligence in all actions and sayings.’ (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 200) Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also made his Nafs humble.

Sayyiduna Ibn Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: One day, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went out. I also followed him. I saw him entering an orchard. There was a wall between him and me. By displaying humbleness, I heard him pointing out to himself and saying: ‘O the Ameer of Muslims! Keep fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, otherwise by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He will definitely punish you.’ (Muwatta Imam Maalik, vol. 2, pp. 469, Hadees 1918)

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Umar Bin Hafs رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said that once Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ lifted his Mashkeezah on his back. He was requested not to lift it. He said: “My Nafs has made me arrogant, so I have decided to disgrace it.’ (Tareekh-e-Islam, vol. 3, pp. 270)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ certainly had no spiritual diseases nor bad qualities, but to teach us a cure to arrogance through his action, he shows us that one should do his work himself in order to protect his Nafs from these disasters. By virtue of his humbleness and humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted him great respect, status and rank and therefore his remembrance continues to take place all over world. Furthermore, all Muslims will take lessons and follow in his blessed footsteps, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, has been privileged to publish a wonderful book entitled ‘Faizan-e-Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ’, it consists of 2 volumes about the blessed life history of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, important information about living one’s life according to Islamic laws have been mentioned in a simple way in this book. This book also contains ways to do justice and to fulfil the rights of general people. Therefore, obtain this book from a Maktaba-tul-Madinah stall and study not only yourself, but also persuade others to do so. This book can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

دعوتِ اسلامی کی قیُّوم

اِک اِک گھر میں مچ جائے دُھوم

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the blessed attribute of humbleness of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and we have mentioned the spiritual disease of arrogance. Remember! If the spiritual disease of arrogance is not cured immediately, it grows causes many other

diseases. Therefore, how worried we become when we hear about our physical illnesses and we concentrate on finding a cure quickly, likewise we must immediately cure spiritual diseases like arrogance, since a person who suffers from this disease may also suffer from other deadly diseases like hurting Muslims, lies, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, etc. Let’s listen to some methods to get rid of the evil of arrogance and to adopt humbleness.

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to adopt the habit of being humble and to adopt other good habits, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Madani environment has brought a great change in the lives of millions of Muslims around the world, especially the youth. Many spoilt young men have started following the right path after sincerely repenting of their sins. Those who were disobedient towards their parents have become obedient. Many disbelievers have been blessed with the light of Islam. Those who were obsessed with the attractions of European countries, are now anxious to see the sacred Ka’bah and Gumbad-e-Khazra. Those who were in misery, have now started thinking about their Hereafter. The readers of obscene booklets and love digests have started studying the books and booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Those who were habitual of sinful journeys for the sake of entertainment, have now started to travel in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool with Madani Qafilahs. Those who did not offer Salah, are now not only performing Salah, but they have also started leading the Salah (as Imams of Masajid). A large number of Islamic brothers now awaken Muslims (make Sada-e-Madinah) for Fajr Salah. Sada-e-Madinah is one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah, and is carried out every day. This is also a Sunnah of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

It has been narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam had this blessed habit that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to awaken people on the way when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would leave his home for Salat-ul-Fajr. Furthermore, immediately after the Fajr Azan, if he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ found anyone sleeping in the Masjid, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would awaken him. (At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263)

ا َلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Hundreds of Islamic brothers, who are associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, awaken Muslims for Fajr Salah daily and earn immense rewards. Let’s listen to a Madani parable in this regard.

A summary of a wonderful parable narrated by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India, is as follows: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was uncontrollably committing sins. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, insult people, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also an addicted gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts on me, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and I accepted his invitation. I immediately travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah. In the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, an addicted gambler and drinker like me who did not use to offer any Salah not only started offering Salah but I was also inspired to call Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We were listening to some methods of getting rid of the disaster of arrogance and adopting humbleness. Another beautiful way to develop humbleness and humility is to take the lead in making Salam to every Muslim whether he is rich or poor, older or younger and whether you know him or not. Our Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to be the first to make

Salam even to the children. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by some boys and made Salam to them, thereafter he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to also do this.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 170, Hadees 6247)

تری سادگی پہ لاکھوں، تری عاجزی پہ لاکھوں

ہوں سلامِ عاجِزانہ مدنی مدینے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has granted us a Madani In’aam to spread Salam. Madani In’aam no. 6 states:

Today, whilst going to work or returning home, in the bus, train etc. or whilst walking through the streets, did you say Salam to Muslims whom you came across on the way?

Therefore, with good intentions, form your habit to make Salam to Muslims. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will receive its blessings along with the privilege of practising upon a Madani In’aam.

Another way to become humble is to carry your own luggage. Form your habit of assisting in household chores. It is a saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: He who carries his own luggage frees himself from arrogance. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 292, Hadees 8201)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would himself become occupied with the chores of his home. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 241)

Acting upon the same Sunnah, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not feel embarrassed to carry out household chores. Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would peel and cut vegetables and also carry out other chores. (Mahnamah Ashrafiyah, pp. 54)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to do household chores ourselves!

Perform such deeds that destroy arrogance. Sit in the company of poor and pious Muslims. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this will help destroying arrogance and developing humbleness.

It is stated on page 403, part 2, volume 1 of ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’ a 1250-page book, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. To sit on a skin (a skin that is dried in a specific way) of a goat or a ram, develops gentleness and humbleness in temperament.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 403)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat usually spreads a (treated and dried up) goat skin on the place where he sits, quite often a goat skin is spread on his floor mat during his speech. You too should try and sit on the skin of a goat or ram and see its blessings.

Giving Sadaqah (charity) helps to develop humbleness and removes arrogance. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Indeed, the Sadaqah of a Muslim increases his life and protects him from a bad death and through its blessings, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes arrogance and pride. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 284, Hadees 4609) Therefore, help Madani activities by giving your Sadaqat, Zakah and charity to Dawat-e-Islami.

Dear Islamic brothers! Another act that develops humbleness is to immediately admit your mistakes if someone has pointed it out. It does not matter whether that person is younger than you or he has less experience than yourself. Whenever you have any difference of opinion with any Islamic brother or if it has become clear that he is right, then instead of being stubborn,

accept your wrongs and give due credit to his correct opinion and make Du’a for him e.g. you are right, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless you with its reward!’ Though this is very difficult for the Nafs, to admit your mistake on such occasions, but by doing this repeatedly, it will become your habit and you will also get rid of the evil of arrogance, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

When the glorious Muhaddis, Imam Dar-e-Qutni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a very young student, one day he went to the Dars-Gah (learning centre) of Sayyiduna Imam Anbaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Imam Anbaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made a mistake in getting the name of a narrator written. Sayyiduna Dar-e-Qutni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not point this out to Imam Anbaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه out of respect for him, but informed the one who used to convey his voice to his pupils. The next Friday Imam Dar-e-Qutni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه again went to the Majlis-e-Dars, (now look at the enthusiasm of honesty and selflessness of Imam Anbaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه), he made this announcement in front of a huge gathering: On that day, I had made a mistake with so-and-so name, this young student has informed me of it. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 3, pp. 400)

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to become humble, take precaution that whenever we are with our companions or in a gathering, we should never have this desire in the heart that I should be given a prominent status, I should be allowed to sit on a high platform and I must be given enough respect. However, if somebody himself offers you a seat at a prominent place, then there is no harm in accepting it.

Once, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَرَّمَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی وَجْهَهُ الْکَرِيْم sat at a certain place. The host offered him a seat of honour. He sat on it and said: Perhaps, that person is a fool who does not accept a thing of honour.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 720)

Dear Islamic brothers! Instead of only establishing good relations with the rich and attending their functions, stay in contact with the poor as well. Whenever they invite you, then accept their invitation. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to stay away from the worldly and wealthy people, and they would especially become affectionate towards the poor and would accept their invitations.

Muhaddis-e-A’zam Pakistan ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Sardar Ahmad Chishti Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would usually not accept the invitation from the rich, but if he was invited by a poor Muslim, then as far as possible he would accept his invitation and would also admire him for his simple food so that he might not have any sadness in his heart. Once, upon the invitation of a poor man, he went to his home. When he reached there he learnt that his house was like a small hut and situated in a smelly area. He ate the meal at the poor man’s home to make him happy and he never let the poor man feel bad due to the unpleasant smell of the area. However, under normal circumstances, even a slight smell would be unpleasant to him. (Hayat Muhaddis-e-A’zam, pp. 184)

Dear Islamic brothers! Wearing simple clothes also leads to humbleness. Whereas there is a fear that by wearing nice clothes one may develop arrogance and showing-off.

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written on page 52 of 312-page of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16 published by Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: It is obligatory to wear clothes that at least cover the Satr-e-Awrat (the parts of the body which must be concealed according to Shari’ah) and are to be protected from hot or cold weather. It is Mustahab to wear clothes for adornment and to express the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which He has granted us.

Wearing beautiful clothes on special occasions like Friday and Eid is Mubah (permissible), however, one should not wear such clothes daily, because he might start feeling proud and will boast as well as look down upon the poor who are deprived of such clothing. Therefore, one should avoid such clothing. Clothes which are worn out of arrogance is prohibited. One can find out whether he feels arrogant or not by focusing the attention to the inner state. If the inner state remains as it was even after wearing the clothes, it means that these clothes do not bring out arrogance. On the other hand, if the former state does not exist anymore, then it means that he is overpowered by arrogance. Therefore, he should avoid wearing such clothing, as arrogance is an extremely bad characteristic. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Study the following booklets and books of Maktaba-tul- Madinah Takabbur from page 70 to 96, Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, volume 3 from 999 to 1010, Biography of Rasool-e-Arabi from page 340 to 346, Faizan-e-‘Aaishah Siddiqah from page 560 to 570 and Seerat-e-Mustafa from page 606 to 609, in order to also develop humbleness and humility, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s speech, we have heard about the parables of the simplicity and humbleness of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Therefore, we should also make humbleness and humility a part of our character and habit by also staying far away from arrogance. Furthermore, we should try to act upon all the methods mentioned in this speech. By acting upon them, we will develop the passion to become humble and we shall adopt humility along with hating arrogance and vices.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. It is Mustahab [preferable] to clip the nails on a Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

The great scholar of Fiqh, Shaykh Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘It is narrated that whosoever clips his/her nails on a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days in total. In one narration, it is said that whosoever clips their nails on a Friday, [for that person] mercy will arrive and his sins will go [i.e., be forgiven].’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, pp.9, vol. 668, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 225-226)

2. The following is a summary of the prescribed method of cutting the fingernails as narrated in authentic books: begin with the index finger of the right hand and work your way right towards the pinkie (smallest finger). Now, beginning with the pinkie (small finger) of the left hand, work your way towards the left thumb. At the end, clip the nail of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 193, vol. 1)

There is no prescribed order of clipping the toe nails. It would be better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot working your way left to

1. the big toe, then cut the big toenail of the left foot working your way left to your little toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 193, vol. 1)

2. It is Makruh [disliked] to clip the nails whilst in the state of Janabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory on one.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

3. It is Makruh [disliked] to bite the nails with one’s teeth; there is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

4. Bury the nails after clipping them; they can also be thrown away.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

