اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Value Your Time

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ مِاءَۃً کَتَبَ اللّٰہُ بَیْنَ عَیْنَیْہِ بَرَاءَ ۃً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَاءَۃً مِّنَ النَّارِوَاَسْکَنَہُ اللّٰہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مَعَ الشُّہَدَاءِ

i.e. The one who recites Salat upon me hundred times, Allah Almighty will write between both his eyes that this person is free from hypocrisy and fire of Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, He Almighty will keep him with the martyrs . (Mu’jam Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 7235)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Listen to an instructive parable from page No. 474 of the 826 paged-publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, namely, ‘Qoot-ul-Quloob’, and gather Madani pearls derived from it.

Sleep of heedlessness and wasting of life

An ignorant person said to a Hakeem (wise person): ‘Describe the benefits of such a thing to me that by the virtue of using it, I remain asleep even during the day time.’ The wise person replied: ‘O so and so! How unwise are you! You are already spending half of your life by sleeping (heedlessly at nights), whereas sleep is the other name of death. Now, you want to waste further three-fourths of your life in sleeping and keep only one-fourth’.

That man asked: ‘How is that?’ The wise person replied: ‘Suppose you have a lifespan of 40 years, so half of your life will be 20 years. Now you want to reduce it further to just 10 years.’ (In other words, you are already spending 20 years of your life by sleeping at night. If you remain asleep during the day also, it means you will be spending another 10 years of your life in sleep. Now what you will have in your hand to carry out good deeds for the preparation of the Hereafter will be only 10 years. Therefore, remove the desire of sleeping in excess from your heart.) (Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 474)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard how nicely the wise man reformed the person who had the desire of sleeping in excess, and how he tried to give him the Madani mind-set to think about his afterlife. The abovementioned parable especially contains admonition for those Islamic sisters who waste most of their time only sleeping or staying in bed like bedridden patients . Such Islamic sisters neither care about Salah nor about the other rights. Remember! Sleeping in excess is such a bad habit that not only severely wastes time, but is also a mean of disgrace and humiliation in this world as well as in the Hereafter.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The blessed mother رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا of Sayyiduna Sulayman Bin Dawood عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘O my son, do not sleep till late at night, for sleeping too much at night will leave a man poor on the Day of Judgement.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 125, Hadees 1332)

It is stated on page No. 125 of the book ‘Jannati Zaywar’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: All the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: Hold firm to three habits: less talking, less sleeping, and less eating; because excessive talking, excessive sleeping and excessive eating are all bad habits and a person suffers due to these habits in this world and the Hereafter. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 125)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Time is such a Divine blessing of Allah Almighty that has been bestowed upon all the humans equally. It is not the case that a poor person has 24 hours a day and a rich person has 27 hours a day. Rather, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed 24 hours upon everyone in the day and night. Now the question is that who appreciates the value of time and who wastes it ? Because the journey of this mortal life is about to end soon.

Abode of son of Aadam

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say: O son of Aadam! You are a combination of different stages. Whenever any day or night passes by you, it brings one of your stages to an end. And when all of your stages come to an end, you will reach your destination i.e., Jannah or Hell.

(Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 187)

Dear Islamic sisters! What is meant by valuing time? How to value time? Let’s try to understand it in the light of the following Ayah of the Glorious Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has says in part 30, Surah Al-‘Asr, Ayah no. 1 to 3:

وَ الْعَصْرِۙ(۱) اِنَّ الْاِنْسَانَ لَفِیْ خُسْرٍۙ(۲) اِلَّا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ عَمِلُوا الصّٰلِحٰتِ وَ تَوَاصَوْا بِالْحَقِّ ﳔ وَ تَوَاصَوْا بِالصَّبْرِ۠(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: By this era of the beloved (Prophet Muhammad). Indeed mankind is surely in loss. Except those who believed (in Islam), and did good deeds and advised one another towards truth (i.e. all kinds of good deeds), and advised one another to have patience (i.e. at the time of any kinds of suffering) (Part 30, Surah Al-‘Asr, Ayah 1-3)

The renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The man is wasting his true capital, (i.e.) his life, in Kufr [disbelief]; sin; heedlessness; seeking the world and in fun and amusement. He does not make it a mean for making his Hereafter better. Man is a trader, life is his shop and his deeds are the products of his shop. If the products [i.e. deeds] are good, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ buys them and Paradise is their price. If they are bad, then Satan is the buyer and Hell is their price. Who the buyer is, depends on the product. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 994)

Similarity between age and ice

Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has quoted a blessed saying of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: I understood the meaning of Surah Al-‘Asr from an ice-seller who was calling aloud in the marketplace, ‘Have mercy on the one whose capital is melting. Have mercy on the one whose capital is melting.’ Listening to it, I said to myself: This is the meaning of ‘ اِنَّ الْاِنْسَانَ لَفِیْ خُسْرٍۙ(۲) ’ (Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed mankind is surely in loss). (He further states): Therefore, the one whose life is being spent uselessly will be among those who suffer a loss. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 278)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard how valuable our life, in fact every moment of our life is and how quickly this short journey of our life is ending! Therefore, wise is the one who does not fall prey to the deception of this mortal world. She should value the precious moments (of her life) more than jewels and gold. She should adopt piety. She should not waste her life in useless activities and worldly luxuries. She should not show laziness at all in performing the actions commanded by the Shari’ah. If our Nafs makes us lazy, we should rebuke it. We should refrain from Shari’ah-forbidden acts without any ifs and buts avoiding any kind of delay.

If we remain indulged in the luxuries of this mortal world spending all of our precious time heedlessly in only brightening our worldly future and the angel of death comes to us, then by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We would not be given time to even say ‘ سُبْحٰنَ اللہ ’ once. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable in this regard:

No respite to even distribute wealth

It is stated on page 389 of the book called ‘Lubab-ul-Ihya’, translated as ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom ka Khulasa ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Bin ‘Abdullah Muznee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A person from Bani Israel hoarded [i.e. gathered] wealth. When the time of his death approached, he said to his sons: Show me my different possessions. Many horses, camels and slaves were brought to him. Seeing them, he began to weep in remorse.

Seeing him crying, Malak-ul-Maut (Sayyiduna ‘Izra’eel) (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم) asked, ‘Why are you crying? I swear by the One Who blessed you with all this! I will not leave until I separate your soul from your body.’ He pleaded, ‘Grant me a little time so I may distribute this wealth.’ The angel said, ‘Now you would not be granted any respite. Why did you not do it before your death?’ Therefore, Malak-ul-Maut (Sayyiduna ‘Izra’eel) (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم) (then) seized his soul.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Only that wealth is bad which is not spent on paying its Huqooq-e-Wajibah such as Zakah, Fitrah etc. Only that wealth is bad which makes us heedless from acting upon the commandments of Shar’iah, death, the matters of the grave and the Hereafter, righteous deeds and a good company. Therefore, try to understand the importance of time and accumulate Halal sustenance only as much as required.

Life is not granted again and again. Keep those Ahadees and narrations in mind too which provide guidance regarding the importance of time. For persuasion, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the importance of time:

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There are two such blessings about which many people are in deception. (1) Health and (2) leisure time.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 222, Hadees 6412)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Value five things before five things: (1) Youth before old age, (2) health before illness, (3) wealth before poverty, (4) leisure time before being busy and (5) life before death. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 435, Hadees 7916)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Every day when sun rises in the morning, the ‘day’ makes the following announcement at that time: ‘If you want to perform any good deed today, then do so. I will never return after today.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 386, Hadees 3840)

Dear Islamic sisters! Listening to the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, those Islamic sisters should especially wake up from the sleep of heedlessness who waste plenty of time in useless gatherings, mixed amusement spots/centres (i.e. such amusement spots/centres where non-Mahram males and females gather together and loads of sins are committed through unveiling), watch films, dramas or such programs that contain music. Some Islamic sisters waste their time by unnecessarily reading newspapers, standing in front of the mirror again and again, discussing current affairs and sports activities, watching, listening to the updates of cricket and football, playing games on computer or mobile, talking to non-Mahram people on the

phone and through the unnecessary or sinful usage of social media. It is as if they accumulate the provisions of embarrassment and regret for this world and the Hereafter.

Whereas, if the same time was spent in noble deeds such as offering Salah, observing Sawm, performing Zikr or reciting Salat, reciting the Holy Quran, Hamd, Na’at, serving parents, calling Islamic sisters towards righteousness, making preparation for the matters of the grave and the Hereafter, bringing up children [in accordance with Shari’ah] and gaining Islamic knowledge, then blessings of these would surely be received in this world and the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Time is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . On the Day of Judgement, the way people will be questioned about different blessings, similarly, they will be questioned about time as well. They will also be asked what activities they spent their life in.

Allah Almighty says in Part 30, Surah At-Takasur, Ayah No. 8:

ثُمَّ لَتُسْــٴَـلُنَّ یَوْمَىٕذٍ عَنِ النَّعِیْمِ۠(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then indeed, on that Day, you will surely be questioned regarding the bounties (of Allah upon you).

(Part 30, Surah At-Takasur, Ayah 8)

Commenting on the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Sayyid Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: You will be questioned about those blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had bestowed upon you. For example, health, wealth, leisure time, peace, comfort etc. Through these blessings, you used to seek pleasure and comfort for yourselves in the world. You will be asked: What uses of these things you made? How did you pay gratitude for these things? And you will be punished for being ungrateful.

Dear Islamic sisters! Though the word ‘time’ is a very small word but in reality, it is something very precious. Neither can anyone purchase ‘time’, nor can anyone accumulate it. ‘Time’ is such a traveller that is travelling continuously. It does not stop even for a while and continues its journey towards its destination indifferently. ‘Time’ has played a vital role in the rise and fall of nations. Those nations who recognise the value of time and spend their days and nights with punctuality, they automatically progress and prosper.

Contrary to it, the nations that waste time while not valuing it fall prey to slavery. ‘Wasting of time’ plunges them into darkness of disgrace and humility in such a way that even their signs get wiped away. In relation to the matters of time, if we compare our lives with that of the pious bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will notice a clear difference in our and their lifestyles which will perhaps make us feel regret and utterly embarrassed. Those people were not used to spending time in useless activities; rather, they had correctly recognised the importance of ‘time’. Only a dying person knows what one goes through at the time of death, but the pious servants of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ do not remain heedless of the importance of ‘time’ even at that critical moment, but rather, they spend even the last moments of their life performing virtuous deeds.

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard and try to understand the importance of ‘time’.

There is still time

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ahmad Bin Muhammad Bin Ziyad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:I heard Sayyiduna Abu Bakr ‘Attar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying: When Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away, some of my friends and I were present there. We saw that just before his demise, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was offering Salah while sitting due to weakness. Both his feet were swollen. While performing Ruku’ and Sujood, he would bend one of his feet which would cause severe pain and trouble.

Upon seeing this state, his friends said: ‘O Abu Qaasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! What is this? Why are your feet swollen?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ’ اَللہُ اَکْبَر! This is in fact a blessing.’ Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Hareeri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘O Abu Qaasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, is there any harm if you lie down?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘There is still [some] time to perform righteous deeds. Thereafter, there will be no such opportunity.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away.

It is also reported that when it was said to him that: ‘Huzoor! Be a bit lenient on yourself.’ Upon this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Now my record of deeds is being closed. Who will be in need of good deeds more than me at this time?’

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayat - Arabic, pp. 250)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! A wise person neither wastes her own time, nor the time of others. Rather, she values her own time, minds her own business, spends her time in good activities and persuades other Islamic sisters to do the same. She reforms those who have the mind-set of wasting time, and also carries out self-accountability by performing Fikr-e-Madinah if she utters an unnecessary statement. This was the very Madani mind-set of our pious predecessors. For persuasion, let us listen to two faith-refreshing parables and learn some admonitory Madani pearls from it.

1. Reformation of the one who wasted time

It is stated on page No. 829 of the 2 nd volume of the book ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad (فُضَیل بن عِیاض رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) was sitting alone in Masjid-ul-Haraam when one of his friends came to him. Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him the reason he had come for. He replied, ‘O Abu ‘Ali! I have come to amuse you.’ Sayyiduna Abu Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This is something of a

great worry! You do want to beautify your speech for me and [wish that] I beautify my speech for you? You lie for me and I lie for you? (Therefore, it is better that) either you go away from me or I will go away from you.’

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 287)

2. Observed Siyam for one year as expiation for one useless question

It is stated on page 173 of the book ‘ Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Hassaan Bin Sinaan Taabi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed by a massive and towering house and asked its owner: ‘How long has it been since you constructed this huge house?’ Having asked this question, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt deeply embarrassed in his heart and addressing his Nafs [i.e. inner - self], he said: ‘O the arrogant Nafs! You waste precious time in [asking] useless and purposeless questions.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then observed Siyam for one year as an expiation of this useless question. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen – Arabic, pp. 65)

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and the value of time

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see how our pious saints (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) used to spend their time in an extremely cautious manner. If any of their friends would come only for pastime, then they would bless him with the Madani pearls regarding the importance of time and reform them by telling them the harms of wasting time.

In today’s troublesome time, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is that great personage who reminds us of our pious predecessors (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) and every deed of his is something to be followed. He has divided his time in the most excellent manner. Salah, Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations), Madani Muzakarahs, study, Nafl [optional] Siyam, offering Nawafil, Madani Mashwarahs, Sahari and Iftari, meeting his disciples, Taalibs, Islamic Scholars and general public, inquiring after the ill, expressing condolences to the relatives of the deceased, Madani pearls for the encouragement of the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami for the development of Madani activities, needs of the family, Madani upbringing of

[maternal and paternal] grandsons and granddaughters along with his own children’s, written work, rest and countless practices of everyday life have been divided into different timings. His steadfast practice after dividing them into different timings gives us a clear proof of the way he values time.

The best example of his Islamic and organizational success and achievements can be seen by the fact that the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has spread across the globe and more or less 107 departments have been established. These achievements also include ‘ Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’ [Questions and Answers about Kufriyah Kalimat], ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society], ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness], Wasail-e-Bakhshish, the collection of 12 booklets, ‘ Namaz kay Ahkam ’ [Laws of Salah ], Islami Behno ki Namaz [Salah for Islamic sisters] ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ [Blessings of Sunnah] vol. 1 and 2, ‘ Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’ [Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil].

Furthermore, these achievements also include rulings of jurisprudence, and hundreds of Madani Muzakarahs on the topics of grave and the Hereafter, science of medicine and written matter consisting of thousands of pages.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to develop the awareness of the importance of time in the hearts and minds of Muslims and to transfer the Madani mind-set of pious saints into their hearts, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written a booklet namely ‘ Anmol Heeray ’ [Priceless Diamonds] consisting of Quranic Ayahs, blessed Ahadees, sayings of pious saints and Madani pearls full of advice.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Majlis-e-Tarajim [Translation department] has also translated this booklet into different languages which include Arabic, English, Hindi, Gujarati and Sindhi etc. Buy this booklet from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself and also present it to other Islamic sisters as a gift.

By the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه valued time and then, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, became acclaimed all over the world. Not only the general public has

acknowledged and appreciated its religious services, but Islamic scholars also commend its religious services and bless Dawat-e-Islami with their Du’as. Only if we also be blessed with the passion of serving Islam for the sake of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and succeed in serving Islam by taking part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

Acting upon Madani In’amaat—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to abandon sins and develop a mind-set to perform the acts of worship, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Practically take part in the Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore, do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. How many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister on the first day of every Madani month after filling out the blanks given in the booklet. Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, ‘ Jannat kay Talab-garaun kay liye Madani Guldastah ’ published by Maktaba tul Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make efforts to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani In’aam of making an individual effort, distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month.

There are many blessings of acting upon Madani In’amaat. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable:

Madani In’amaat led to Madina h

It is a summary of an account given under oath by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi: We are the descendants of a caliph of A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . That caliph was the maternal grandfather of my mother and we were all his disciples. Although we had great devotion to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه by the blessing of the Bay’at, we had no tendency to act upon Islamic teachings including even Salah. Furthermore, the

darkness of fashion, songs and music had prevailed in our home. Fury and peevishness had also become second nature to us.

Fortunately, a son of my paternal aunt was associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. He invited my brother to the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’. Making individual effort, he even started taking my brother to the Ijtima’. Having returned from the Ijtima’, my brother would tell us what he heard during the Ijtima’, mentioning Imam A h mad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, thus causing me to develop a liking for the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the first time in 1985, I was inspired to attend ‘the special session’ of the annually-held Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’. During the Ijtima’ I along with other Islamic sisters listened to the speech and made heart-rending Du’a, all with the observance of Islamic veiling.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of the very same Ijtima’, I repented of my sins, developing the mindset of pondering over my afterlife. In order to remain steadfast in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I started acting upon Madani In’amaat and was blessed with the privilege of performing Hajj and paying a humble visit to Madinah along with the caravan of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Some activities that waste time

Dear Islamic sisters! Instead of wasting the precious moments of our life in useless activities, we all should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and carry out the deeds which bring us success in this world and the Hereafter. But regretfully, majority of Islamic sisters feel proud in wasting their time instead of being ashamed and regretting over it. What are those useless acts in which we waste our precious moments and then face failures? Let us listen to 3 of such acts:

1. Internet

Dear Islamic sisters! Internet is also one of the biggest means of wasting time. Remember! As the right usage of internet has countless benefits, similarly, its wrong and unnecessary usage also has harmful effects. One of the biggest harm is the waste of time. Some Islamic sisters have become such habitual of internet, Facebook and WhatsApp that they do not stop using their mobile phone even for a moment. They keep sharing the updates of their sleeping, waking up, eating and various other matters with their friends every now and then. Some unwise women share their pics of different occasions on social media and feel pride in sharing them.

Our youth has indulged so much in the ill-usage of internet that they spend hours in it. If they do not use it someday, then they feel restless and it feels as if their time is not passing. Just ponder! Have you ever felt so sad and restless after missing reciting the Holy Quran any day? Did you feel restless in case of missing Ishraq, Chasht or Tahajjud Salah?

Would that! We could be blessed with the yearning and passion for the recitation of the Holy Quran! Would that! We could be blessed with worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

2. Mobile phone

Dear Islamic sisters! The important usage of mobile phone is also very helpful for necessities. However, we have perhaps considered it to be a device of wasting time; young girls use it inappropriately and unnecessarily. The whole day they play games and send such useless messages that contain indecent and strange jokes, sinful poetry and unethical utterances. Moreover, at times, there are such non-Shar’i utterances that would bring about the ruling of Kufr [disbelief] upon the person. Furthermore, they read such messages, مَعَاذَ اللہ express their joy and send them to others.

Remember! Using mobile phone the whole day causes poor vision, academic loss, elimination of thinking ability, wastage of money and the precious moments of life. If we have a mobile phone, then we should use it correctly and save our money and precious time both.

Instead of listening to songs on mobile phone, buy a memory card from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah containing Na’ats and recitation of the Holy Quran and the Sunnah-inspiring speeches of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, Nigran-e-Shura and other preachers of Dawat-e-Islami, Madani Muzakarahs which are full of interesting and precious colourful Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge and listen to them with full attention.

Majlis IT of Dawat-e-Islami has also introduced different applications to those who have thirst for Islamic knowledge. For example, ‘Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Qaadiri’, ‘Al-Haaj Ubayd Raza Attari’, ‘Haji Muhammad Imran Attari’, ‘Awqat-us-Salah’ (Prayer time), ‘Al-Quran-ul-Kareem’, ‘Ruhaani Ilaj’ (Spiritual cures), ‘Madani In’amaat’, ‘Madani Channel’, ‘Hajj-o-‘Umrah’, ‘Zehni Aazmaish’ (Quiz application), ‘Kalimah and Du’a’, ‘Tajheez-o-Takfeen’ (Burial and shrouding), ‘Kalam-e-A’la Hadrat’ and ‘Madani Qa’idah’, etc. One can acquire abundant of Islamic knowledge through these applications too اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Wasting time in useless activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Those Islamic sisters who know the value of time are used to doing their work on time instead of wasting it. On the other hand, those who delay in doing every work due to laziness they are perhaps unaware of the importance of time. The activities of some Islamic sisters suggest as if their life is meaningless. They go to entertainment places by spending money and time watch movies the whole day, and listen to songs using hands-free, etc. It seems as if they have forgotten the real purpose of their life.

Remember! We have not been given this life to spend it in the luxuries of this world. Rather, we have been sent to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, act upon His commandments and to abstain from the acts of His disobedience. And this

opportunity is also available to us until we are alive. May Allah Almighty enable us to understand this true purpose of our life. Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Surely life is too short. If we do everything on time instead of wasting our life in meaningless activities and spend it in performing good deeds instead of committing sins, then our world and the Hereafter both will get better. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی proved to be the ones who valued time. Hence, they are still highly acclaimed amongst all the people. For example, we consider it a privilege to talk about the blessed companions, Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar, Tabi’een, Tab’-e-Tabi’een رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, pious saints, Muhaddiseen, Mufassireen, ‘Ulama-e-Deen and blessed Sufiya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی etc., who are great personalities. Upon calling their names, we spontaneously say ‘ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ’ and ‘ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’. Why is it? It is because those blessed personalities were well aware of the importance of time. Let us get some Madani pearls of advice by listening to 5 blessed sayings of those who valued time.

Sayings o f those who valued time

1. Amir-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘These days are the pages of your life, decorate them with good deeds.’

2. The famous companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘I do not feel ashamed on anything else more than the day which passed without increase in my good deeds.’

3. The great leader of millions of Shaafi’is, Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘I remained in the company of pious people for a long time, gaining spiritual benefits. I learnt two important things from their company: (1) Time is like a sword . You should cut it (with good deeds) or else it will cut you (by indulging you in useless things) (2) Safeguard your

Nafs. If you do not keep it busy in a good deed, then it will indulge you an evil deed.’

4. The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Having to leave out religious activities (writing or studying) at the time of eating food saddens me severely because time is a very valuable asset.’ (Anmol Heeray, pp. 16 - 18)

5. Sayyiduna Imam Abu Zakariyya Bin Sharaf Nawavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never used to waste his time. Neither during the day nor at night. To the extent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would either be reading or revising a book even whilst coming or going somewhere. This way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent many years in seeking ‘ilm [Islamic knowledge]. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had divided his time. All his time would be spent in righteous activities. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had fixed times for writing books, teaching, offering Nawafil, reciting the Holy Quran, pondering over the matters of the Hereafter, conveying the call to righteousness and forbidding from evil. (Faizan Riyad-u-Saliheen, pp. 14)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of valuing time

Dear Islamic sisters! We have just been privileged to hear about time-wasting activities and the sayings of those who recognized the value of time. Listening to them would have increased our passion to value time. In order to make our passion firm, let us listen to some of the methods that by the virtue of acting upon them we can attain steadfastness over using our time in the correct manner.

14 Ways of using time in a correct manner

1. Abstain from the unnecessary use of mobile phone and internet.

2. Try to get into the habit of having conversation in writing as much as possible. Otherwise, have conversation in as minimum words as possible.

3. In order to increase the passion of valuing time, keep yourself busy in virtuous acts as much as possible and plan a Jadwal [schedule] for the whole day which should not contain useless and time-wasting activities.

4. If possible, wake up early in the morning and perform Tahajjud Salah.

5. Wake up other Islamic sisters of the household. If only the complete household wakes up for Fajr Salah.

5. After Fajr Salah recite or listen to three Ayahs of the Holy Quran with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary from Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, Noor ul ‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan. You will gain its blessings.

6. Also offer the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht.

7. After you have taken breakfast, have the necessary house chores for example cleaning etc., done. Acquire Islamic knowledge from Jami’a-tul-Madinah (For Islamic sisters) etc.

8. Offer the Zuhr and ‘Asr Salah.

9. After offering Maghrib Salah offer the Awwabeen Nawafil as well. Then after Isha Salah, learn the recitation of the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation in Madrassa tul Madina Balighat (for Islamic sisters). Moreover, develop a habit of going to sleep early after completing the other important tasks. Staying up late without a reason would make one lazy in getting up for Fajr Salah in the morning.

11. Apart from this Jadwal, protect your tongue in order to avoid unnecessary talk all day long.

12. Do Zikr and recite Salat abundantly in free time.

13. Instead of watching films and dramas and other sinful channels, watch 100% Islamic channel, ‘Madani Channel’, and also persuade your household to do so.

14. May we be privileged to participate in the ‘Madani Dora’ [Madani visit] with the intention of presenting the call towards righteousness to the Muslim Ummah. If we prepare our schedule like this and act upon it,

then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our time will be spent in virtuous deeds, rather than being wasted in useless activities.

Dear Islamic sisters! How was the blessed time of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم divided? How can the time be used correctly? How can we serve Islam more in less time? How can worship be included in our schedule? What are the benefits and importance of schedule? How was the schedule of the blessed lives of the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی ? How should the responsible Islamic sisters of Dawat-e-Islami prepare their schedule? What intentions can be made when preparing a schedule? In order to get answers to all these questions, purchase the booklet called ‘ Aqa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ka Jadwal ’ [Schedule of Aqa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madina. Read it yourself and give it as a gift to others too.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The department of Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is serving Islam in more or less 107 departments. Out of these departments, one is the department of ‘Madani In’amaat’.

‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’ has been established in order to make Islamic sisters of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practising and to persuade them to act upon Madani In’amaat as per the wish of Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: Would that besides performing other obligatory acts and Sunnahs all the Islamic sisters could also make these Madani In’amaat a part of their life and all responsible Islamic sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate them (booklets of Madani In’amaat) in their Halqahs (areas)! Would that every Muslim could get the greatest gift of becoming the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul Firdaus by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by acting upon these Madani In’amaat sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter! Let’s participate in virtuous activities actively. Not only should we

act upon Madani In’amaat ourselves, but we should also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon them and earn huge reward.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

Madani pearls of applying kohl

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 359, vol. 5)

3. It is Sunnah to use kohl when going to sleep. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

4. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl: (i) Sometimes, apply it thrice to each eye. (ii) Sometimes, apply it thrice to the right eye and twice to the left. (iii) Sometimes, apply it twice to each eye and at the end, take the applier and put it into the container so the kohl gets onto it, then use the same applier to each eye one by one. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 218-219) Applying in this way will fulfil all three methods, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

5. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to begin all honourable acts from the right side, so apply kohl to the right eye first, and then to the left eye.

