اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of Halal and Warnings against Haraam

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Recitation of Salat upon me is Noor [light] on the bridge of Siraat. Whoever recites Salat upon me 80 times on Friday, his sins of 80 years will be forgiven.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 2, pp. 408, Hadees 3814)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 . Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 . I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 . If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 . When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 . After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 . During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 . Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 . Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We have been commanded to consume Halal and avoid Haraam at many places in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees. In today’s Bayan [speech], let’s have the privilege of listening to the Bayan about the virtues of consuming Halal and disadvantages of consuming Haraam.

Gave the price of cloths as Sadaqah

The leader of millions of Hanafis, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was engaged in trade to earn a Halal livelihood. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a prominent cloth trader and would follow Islamic principles. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even as a trader would do good to Muslims and do them favours.

Sayyiduna Hafs Bin ‘Abdur Rahman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would do trade with me and while sending me goods he would tell me, ‘O Hafs! Such and such cloth has some defect, mention it to the buyer when you sell it.’ Once Sayyiduna Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sold the goods of trade but forgot to tell about the defect when selling it. When Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه learnt about it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the amount of the entire cloth as Sadaqah. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 356)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard how careful and cautious Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was about earning a Halal livelihood and refraining from the morsel of Haraam and doubtful things. Undoubtedly, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that Haraam and doubtful things can bring no blessing at all, whereas blessings lie completely in Halal and pure things. Perhaps, for this reason he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not like to keep the earnings from the sold cloth and donated all of them in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The above-mentioned parable contains admonitory Madani pearls for those Islamic sisters whose purpose of life is to only accumulate wealth and increase bank balance. These people sometimes, driven by pure greed for wealth cause damage not only to themselves but also to their family members. Remember! The more wealth one possesses in the world, the greater accountability she will face in the Hereafter. We, therefore, should always avoid Haraam things and try to earn a Halal and pure livelihood and also persuade others Maharims to do the same so that we can also attain the excellence of Halal.

Mentioning the excellence of Halal, Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that some pious predecessors have stated: ‘When a Muslim eats the first morsel of Halal food, his previous sins are forgiven. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 116)

Dear Islamic sisters! In Islam, how important it is to earn pure and Halal livelihood can be realized by pondering over the fact that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given clear commandments in the Holy Quran about consuming a Halal and pure sustenance:

وَ كُلُوْا مِمَّا رَزَقَكُمُ اللّٰهُ حَلٰلًا طَیِّبًا۪-وَّ اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ الَّذِیْۤ اَنْتُمْ بِهٖ مُؤْمِنُوْنَ(۸۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Eat from the sustenance which Allah has given to you, the lawful and the pure – and fear Allah in Whom you believe.

(Part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 88)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Ayah 168 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا النَّاسُ كُلُوْا مِمَّا فِی الْاَرْضِ حَلٰلًا طَیِّبًا ﳲ وَّ لَا تَتَّبِعُوْا خُطُوٰتِ الشَّیْطٰنِؕ-اِنَّهٗ لَكُمْ عَدُوٌّ مُّبِیْنٌ(۱۶۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O mankind! Eat from what is lawful and pure in the earth; and do not follow the footsteps of the devil; undoubtedly he is your open enemy.

What is meant by Halal and pure sustenance?

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Halal and pure means that thing which is Halal itself such as goat meat, vegetables and lentils etc., and which we obtain through permissible means, that is, it should not be obtained by means of theft, bribery, robbery, etc. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, part 2, Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah: 168, vol. 1, pp. 268)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of Halal food

Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Mu’aaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Obedience is hidden in the treasure of Allah Almighty and Du’a is its key and Halal food is the teeth of the key. If the key has no teeth, the door of the treasure will not be opened. When the treasure is not opened, how can we get to the obedience hidden in it? Therefore, protect your morsel and purify your food so that instead of the darkness of bad deeds the Noor of virtuous deeds appears before you when you die. Continue to stop your body parts from the sin of consuming Haraam so that they can gain the pleasure of everlasting blessings. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

كُلُوْا وَ اشْرَبُوْا هَنِیْٓــٴًـۢا بِمَاۤ اَسْلَفْتُمْ فِی الْاَیَّامِ الْخَالِیَةِ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Eat and drink with pleasure – the reward of what you sent ahead, in the past days. (Part 29, Surah Al-Haqqah, Ayah 24)

And whoever does not refrain from consuming Haraam will eat hot and bitter ‘ تُھوہر ’ [Thooher] fruit after remaining hungry for a long time. It will be very bad and harmful food which will break the heart into pieces and will rip the liver and tear the body, causing unimaginably severe pain.

(Aansu`on ka Darya, pp. 283)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It has been learnt that Haraam food brings about many evils and Halal food brings about great blessings.

٭ The Muslim who earns Halal sustenance and then feeds Halal to his family leads a peaceful and prosperous life.

٭ Those who earn and eat Halal attain a special status among people.

٭ Those who earn and eat Halal see blessings in their business.

٭ Sins of the one who earns and eats Halal are forgiven and his Du’as are answered.

For persuasion, let’s listen to four blessed Ahadees and also make intention to make your Mahrams act upon them:

1. Whoever eats Halal for 40 days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will illuminate his heart and will make the springs of wisdom flow out of his tongue [i.e. he will speak words of wisdom], and [Allah] will guide him in the world and Hereafter. (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 6, pp. 450)

2 . Whoever earns Halal wealth and then consumes it himself or wears clothes obtained from these earnings and besides himself, feeds other people (such as his family and other people) and makes them wear (from Halal earnings), then this deed of his is a blessing and purity for him. (Ibn Habbaan, vol. 4, pp. 218, Hadees 4222)

3 . One day, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting with his blessed companions: A young man passed by. When the blessed companions saw the young man who was strong, they said: Would that he could spend his youthfulness and power in the path of Allah Almighty! Upon this the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If this person has come out to search for sustenance for his small children, so he is in the way of Allah Almighty and if this person has come out to search for sustenance for his old parents, so even then he is in the way of Allah Almighty and if he has come out to search for sustenance for protecting himself (from begging people or from consuming Haraam), even then he is in the way of Allah Almighty. However, if he has come out to show off and to have pride, he is in the way of Satan. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 136, Hadees 683)

4 . Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Make Du’a that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ answers my Du’a. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him:‘ یَا سَعْد! اَطِبْ مَطْعَمَکَ تَکُنْ مُسْتَجَابَ الدَّعْوَۃِ ’ i.e., Purify your food, your Du’as will be answered. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 24, Hadees 6495)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard that Halal food is full of blessings. By virtue of eating Halal food, one’s heart is filled with Noor [i.e. light]. By virtue of eating Halal food, one speaks words of wisdom. We have also learnt that whoever goes out in search of sustenance for his household and old parents is in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Just ponder how great virtues and blessings a person receives by earning and eating Halal. But alas!

Some people, under the influence of Nafs and Satan, use Haraam means, consume Haraam or let others consume Haraam despite the availability of easy and Halal sources of livelihood, and make themselves deserving of Hell.

The character of righteous people of Allah Almighty is appreciable regarding earning and consuming Halal sustenance and avoiding Haraam and doubtful things. These blessed people sometimes would travel far and wide in search of Halal sustenance. Further, they did not use to usurp others’ possession, but rather they were very careful. For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable and get Madani pearls from it.

Travel in search of Halal sustenance

On page 223 and 224 of ‘ Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat (part 1), a 410-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is mentioned that Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I once travelled to a city namely ‘Tarsoos’ in search of Halal sustenance. When I reached there, a man approached me and said: I need a person who can guard and look after my grape orchard. Are you ready to look after my orchard on a wage? I replied in the affirmative. I went with that person and began to work in his orchard with great dedication and hard work.

One day, the owner of the orchard along with some of his friends came to the orchard and asked me to bring him some best quality sweet grapes. Having heard this, I brought him a huge quantity of grapes. When the owner ate a grape it was sour. He said to me: O the guard of this orchard! Very sorry to say that you have been working here for a long time but still you have not been able to recognise sweet and sour grapes, though, you would be eating lots of grapes from here all day and night. I said to the owner of the orchard:

By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not eaten even a single grape from this orchard of yours to date, because I have been here only for looking after this orchard, that’s why, I could not identify which are sweet and which ones are sour. Having heard this, the owner said to his friends: Could there be anything stranger than this that a person stays for a long time in an orchard so honestly that he does not eat even a single grape from it? This person seems abstinent like Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(The owner of this orchard did not know that this person is Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه). Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I started doing my work and the owner of the orchard left from there.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayat, part 1, pp. 223-224)

Dear Islamic sisters! The great effort of eating Halal, honesty and abstinence of Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was truly commendable! If he had wanted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have got his desired food easily by making Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that dignity lies in hard work. His trustworthiness and abstinence were truly matchless. Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked after the entire orchard; if he had wanted, he could have relished the opportunity to eat bunches of grapes from the orchard, but he was not one of those who do not care about Halal and Haraam and who betray the trust and who focus their attention on the wealth of others. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was fully aware of the significance and excellence of Halal food.

50 Madani pearls of earning Halal sustenance

Dear Islamic sisters! For gaining the blessings of Halal food, refraining from Haraam sustenance, read a brief but important piece of writing namely ‘ 50 Madani Pearls of Earning Halal Sustenance ’ authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Studying this booklet is extremely beneficial. This booklet has been written for the goodness of the Ummah; it contains virtues of Halal livelihood, warnings

against Haraam livelihood. Therefore, buy this priceless booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah in quantity and distribute them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! As we are getting away from the blessed era of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we are becoming more and more ignorant. The temporary attraction of wealth and riches has blinded people. In the past, people used to refrain from Haraam and impermissible food immensely. Now they have become so careless and fearless that م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ they consume Haraam deliberately. Swelling with pride some unwise people even say: Whatever prosperity you see in this splendid home and family of mine is all because of Haraam wealth. At the present time, if we earn our sustenance with honesty, it will be difficult to earn enough with peace. How can we fulfil new demands and desires of our family members on a meagre income? مَعَاذَاللہ

Remember! This is the curse of not following the Islamic principles. About the same era the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A time will come upon people when man will not care at all about how he has earned (wealth) whether by Haraam or by Halal. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Buyoo’, vol. 2, pp. 7, Hadees 2059)

Commenting on the above Hadees, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated, ‘That is, people will become careless about religion in the last era. They will badly get stuck in the financial worries. They will only care about accumulating and multiplying wealth without distinguishing between Halal and Haraam fearlessly; as is common these days. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 229)

It is stated in another Hadees: A time will come upon people when the religion of a religious person will not remain safe except for the person who runs from one mountain to the other and from one cave to the other (for protecting his religion). At that time, one will not be able to earn a living without displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When faced with this situation, man will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his own wife and children. If there are

no wife and children, he will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his parents. If there are no parents, he will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his relatives and neighbours. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How will it happen?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘They will make him feel ashamed of his little livelihood. At that time, he will go to the places of destructiveness.’

(Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer lil-Bayhaqi, Al-Juz-us-Saani, pp. 183, Hadees 439)

Curse of Haraam wealth

Dear Islamic sisters! We should not demand improper things from our Mahrams. We should also not demand for more dresses than our need and should not add to their grievances by demanding more if the need gets fulfilled in less money. We must also take care that their feelings never get hurt and they do not get annoyed and always keep refraining from Haraam earnings.

Dear Islamic sisters! Just ponder! How unfortunate the person who keeps earning Haraam for his children is! On the Judgement Day, his own family members will take all of his good deeds and achieve salvation, leaving him empty-handed. Our society has become so bad that people commit countless and grave sins in business dealings merely to satisfy their greed for wealth. Counterfeit, adulterated foods and defective goods are being sold as original. If the buyer identifies a defect, the seller does not hesitate in even swearing false oaths to assure the buyer that the product is free from defects. Likewise, some people are blindly driven by greed for becoming rich and wealthy, traveling in expensive and luxury cars, becoming famous and acquiring high status, living the life of luxury with all the modern comforts, and owning properties, mills and factories. In doing so, they remain busy pursuing their passion for having a healthy bank balance, violating others’ rights. They do not care if they need to ruin someone’s family life, violate someone’s rights or even kill someone to satisfy their greed. We should make our Maharims aware of these satanic acts and make their mindset to refrain from them.

Dear Islamic sisters! regretfully, people become extremely careless about earning and consuming Halal and Tayyib [i.e. pure] sustenance and refraining from everything that is Haraam and impermissible. Listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the terrible consequences of Haraam food and also make an intention to refrain our Maharims from Haraam.

1. I swear by the One under Whose Power the life of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is! Undoubtedly, [when] a man puts a Haraam morsel into his stomach, his forty days’ deeds are not accepted; and fire is better for the person who has consumed Haraam and Riba [i.e. interest] to nourish his flesh. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 34, Hadees 6495)

2 . When the deceased is placed on the Takht [bier] and raised, his soul moves with convulsive motion and sits on the Takht, and [then] cries out: O my family! Do not let the world play with you as it has played with me. I accumulated Halal and non-Halal Maal [i.e. wealth and possessions] and then left that Maal for others. Its benefit is for them and its harm is for me. Therefore, learn a lesson from whatever I have faced. (At-Tazkirah lil-Qurtubi, pp. 69)

3 . The person who buys a cloth with ten dirhams and [if] one dirham out of them is Haraam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not accept any of his Salahs until any portion of that cloth remains in his use. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 2, pp. 8, Hadees 9260)

4 . An angel of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ every day and night proclaims on the roof of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas: Whoever consumes Haraam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will neither accept any of his Fard nor any Nafl. (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 6, pp. 452)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to the saying of Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Ali Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about the destruction of Haraam livelihood.

Advice of Sayyiduna Imam Ibn-e-Jawzi

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Ali Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Haraam food is such a fire which melts the fat of contemplation, eliminates the pleasure of Zikr and burns the clothes of true intentions. It is Haraam which breeds the blindness of insight. Therefore, accumulate the Halal wealth and spend it moderately. Protect yourself from Haraam and protect your family members from Haraam too. Do not have the company of the people consuming Haraam and keep refraining from eating their food and do not have the company of the person who has income from Haraam source. If you are true to your abstinence then neither guide anybody towards Haraam as when he will consume it, you will be accountable for it and nor help anybody in acquiring Haraam because a helper [facilitator] is also involved in committing a deed. Remember! It is the Halal food that makes deeds acceptable, and concealing poverty and weeping in seclusion play an important role in the acceptance of deeds and have a very significant part in earning Halal sustenance. (Aansu`on ka Darya, pp. 284)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Some Islamic sisters generally complain that they have been suffering from such-and-such a trouble or disease for a long time. Seeking relief from it, they make Du’a imploringly, recite Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations), offer Salah and observe Sawm punctually, give charity, feed the poor, attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and try their best, but problems continue to increase instead of coming to an end.

Instead of complaining and criticising, such Islamic sisters should ponder over the causes of Du’a not being answered. It is highly probable that their character is an obstacle in the way of their Du’as being answered. For example, consuming Haraam [sustenance] sometimes becomes the cause of Du’as not being answered, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘Tayyib’ [i.e. Pure] and accepts only what is pure. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has indeed commanded the Mu’mineen [believers] what He has commanded the Rasools. He (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) has stated to Rasools:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الرُّسُلُ كُلُوْا مِنَ الطَّیِّبٰتِ وَ اعْمَلُوْا صَالِحًا ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Noble Rusul, eat good clean things, and do good deeds. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, Ayah 51)

And (has stated to Mu’mineen):

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا كُلُوْا مِنْ طَیِّبٰتِ مَا رَزَقْنٰكُمْ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! Eat of the good things We have provided you. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 172)

Then (the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) mentioned a person who makes a long journey with untidy hair and dusty body. He invokes ‘O Lord! O Lord!’ with his hands raised towards the sky, but his food is Haraam, his drink is Haraam, his clothing is Haraam and his nourishment is Haraam. How can his Du’a be answered! (Sahih Muslim, pp. 506, Hadees 65 - 1015) ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the respected father of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One should refrain from Haraam in eating, drinking, dressing and earning, as Du’a of the people is mostly rejected who eat Haraam and commit Haraam deeds. (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 60) Let’s now listen to an admonitory parable in this regard and obtain Madani pearls of admonition.

Cause of unanswered Du’a

Sayyiduna ‘Ubbaad Khawwaas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Once Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام passed by a place and saw that a person was busy making heartfelt Du’a in tears by raising his hands [towards the sky]. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام kept on seeing him and then humbly asked in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O my Raheem and Kareem Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Why are You not answering the Du’a of this bondman of Yours?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a Wahee [revelation] to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام: ‘O Musa! I will not answer this person’s Du’a even if he cries to death and raises his hands to the extent that they touch the sky.’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly asked: ‘My Maula! What is the

reason behind it?’ He عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام was responded: ‘He eats Haraam and wears Haraam and there is Haraam wealth in his home.’

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 2, pp. 196)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard that a person, who eats Haraam, wears Haraam and keeps Haraam wealth and possessions in his home becomes himself the cause of unanswered Du’a and thus deserves the torment of Hell. Therefore, if we wish our Du’as to be answered and want to remain safe from the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should only get into the habit of eating Halal food and should keep on refraining from everything that is Haraam and impermissible. For example, if someone is unable to meet her living expenses due to low salary, she should get rid of unnecessary expenses rather than using Haraam means for satisfying her greed for wealth.

Dear Islamic sisters! We should bear in mind that it is incumbent [duty] upon the guardians to give Madani Tarbiyyat to their family as per Sunnahs. For this, it is necessary that she should also be associated with a good environment and should have a Madani mind-set, otherwise pinning hope for success is useless.

It is generally observed that some women request to make Du’a for their children in a sad and sympathising manner saying, ‘ Make Du’a for my children that they become Salah-offering, irrespective of the fact that she [mother] herself misses Salah. ‘ Make Du’a for my children that they start reciting the Holy Quran ’, irrespective of the fact that she [mother] herself only opens the Holy Quran in the blessed month of Ramadan. ‘ Make Du’a for my children that they start following the right path and stop watching films, dramas and having bad friendships ’ irrespective of the fact that she [mother] herself does not feel any shame while watching movies, dramas and the channels showing immoral and sinful programs with sons and daughters.

Dear Islamic sisters! Desire for children being righteous is definitely very good but firstly we have to assess our own character. We have to reform our deeds. We have to gain Islamic knowledge and act upon it as well. We have

to perform every deed according to Shari’ah. May Allah Almighty enable us to act according to Shari’ah in every sphere of life.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Daurah’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Please associate yourselves with Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a movement of devotees of Rasool, and take a part actively in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the eight Madani activities is ‘Madani Daurah’ (Madani visit), through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their houses. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani Daurah’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least an elderly woman) should make ‘Madani Daurah’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

I got peace of heart

The following is a summarised statement by an Islamic sister from Punjab (Pakistan): I already had a religious environment in my home as my father was a Muazzin [1] of a Masjid and my elder brother and sister were already affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami. However, my mind was filled with worldly desires and my Nafs was audaciously fond of sins. I had a habit of missing my Salah. One day, some Islamic sisters came to my house in order to invite me to a Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. Their affectionate manner melted my heart and I made an intention to attend the Ijtima’.

When I attended, I heard an Islamic sister delivering a heart-trembling speech about the ‘punishments of missing Salah’ that shook me up. I made a firm intention that ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ from this day on, I would not miss any single

Salah’. Then, with the arrival of Rabi’-un-Noor, the season of blessings, I attended a Milad congregation where I heard an Islamic sister deliver a speech, my hair stood on end and tears gushed from my eyes. Since that day onwards until the present day I have been busy striving to reform myself remaining affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami.

Note: If y ou have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (lil-Banaat)

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool – Dawat-e-Islami has established many departments for Islamic sisters. One of these departments is ‘Majlis Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (lil-Banaat [for Islamic sisters]). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under this Majlis approximately 265 Jami’aat-tul-Madinah (lil-Banaat) have been established within and outside Pakistan. Wherein, student Islamic sisters are undergoing Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalimah Course) free of charge. As such, come forward and have your sisters and daughters take admission in Jami’a-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat and initiate a cause of Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward) for yourself.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Dust the bed off properly before sleeping, so that poisonous insects etc. if any, are removed.

٭ Recite this Du’a before sleeping:

اَللّٰھُمَّ بِاسْمِكَ اَمُوْتُ وَ اَحْیٰ

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I die and live (sleep and wake up) by Your name.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 196, Hadees 6325)

٭ Do not sleep after ‘Asr, as there is a fear of losing the intellect. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever sleeps after ‘Asr and loses his intellect, should blame only himself.’

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 4, pp. 678, Hadees 4897)

٭ It is Mustahab [preferable] to nap for a while in the afternoon.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says, ‘This is probably for those who remain awake at night offering S alah, doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, or reading and studying religious books, so that the tiredness caused by staying awake at night can be removed by the midday nap.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 79)

