اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Unique Son

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Amr Bin ‘Aas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His [blessed] angels will send mercies upon him seventy times.’ (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 2, pp. 614, Hadees 6766)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

… ٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

… ٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah Almighty has bestowed countless blessings upon us. The more we thank for these blessings, the less it is. One great blessing out of these blessings is ‘children’. It is the responsibility of parents to provide education and upbringing in a proper manner to their children. How should parents provide their children education and upbringing so that they have good attributes?

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام is the blessed and chosen Nabi of Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty has blessed him with special favours and honours, and that is why he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام always remained steadfast by Divine blessing in the Divine trials he faced. Let’s listen to a famous parable of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام about his remaining pleased with the Will of Allah Almighty [the parable for commemorating which اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Muslims carry out Qurbani every year at Eid-ul-Adha (10, 11, 12 Zul-Hijjah) all over the world].

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Same dream during three nights

On the eighth night of Zul-Hajj, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام dreamt that someone said, ‘Indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has ordered you to slaughter your son.’ From dawn to dusk, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام continued to contemplate whether the dream was from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or from Satan. This is the reason why the eighth of Zul-Hajj was named ‘ يَوۡمُ التَّرۡوِيَه ’, i.e. the day of contemplation. On the ninth night of Zul-Hajj, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had the same dream and was convinced that the dream was from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, which is why the ninth of Zul-Hajj is referred to as ‘ يَوۡمِ عَرَفَه ’, i.e. the day of recognition. After he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had the same dream once again on the tenth of Zul-Hajj, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a firm intention of sacrificing his son, which is why the tenth of Zul-Hajj is called ‘ يَوۡمُ النَّحۡر ’, i.e. the day of slaughter. (Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 346)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unique manner of complying with Divine commandment

Dear Islamic brothers! The status of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام is higher and more exalted than the rest of the Creation, therefore the trials they face are also very severe, but may I be sacrificed on the patience and steadfastness of these blessed personalities who not only attain higher ranks in the blessed court of Allah Almighty by bearing these troubles and trials cheerfully, but they also keep themselves and their family members prepared all the time for the trials to come in the future. Such sacrifices of these people become guiding principles for the people until the world exists. Since the dreams of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are Divine revelations, (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 3, pp. 214, Tafseer Surah As-Saffaat, Hadees 3665)

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام realized that Allah Almighty was commanding him to slaughter his son. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got immediately ready to sacrifice his beloved son on the Divine command and related the whole story to his young son, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and said: ‘It is the command of Allah Almighty that I should slaughter you. Now you tell me what your opinion is?’ It is stated in Tafseer-e-Khaazin that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not consult Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would act upon Sayyiduna Isma’eel’s decision if he did not give his consent, but rather it was aimed at testing Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام as to what his feelings were about the trial. It was also aimed to know about the patience and steadfastness of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in this trial and his obedience to the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could succeed in attaining the reward for obeying Divine commandment s . (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 4, pp. 22) When Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام related this dream to Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the reply he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام gave has been mentioned in Ayah 102 of Surah Al-Saffaat, Part 23 in the following words:

قَالَ یٰۤاَبَتِ افْعَلْ مَا تُؤْمَرُ٘-سَتَجِدُنِیْۤ اِنْ شَآءَ اللّٰهُ مِنَ الصّٰبِرِیْنَ(۱۰۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He said, ‘O my father! Do what you are commanded to do! Allah willing, you will soon find me patiently enduring!’

(Part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah 102)

Tie me tightly with ropes

It is stated in Tafseer-e-Khaazin that Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to his respected father: Dear father! Tie me tightly with ropes before you slaughter me so that I do not move lest my reward should get reduced. Also please protect your clothes from the splashes of my blood because my mother will get grieved if she sees it. Sharpen the knife so that it runs properly over my throat (i.e. my throat gets cut immediately) because death is extremely painful. Make me lie on my front placing my forehead over the ground so that you cannot see my face while slaughtering me. And when you go to my mother, please convey my Salam to her. And if you consider it appropriate, so please give my Qamee s [i.e. a long loose and full-sleeved shirt] to her. This will comfort her and help her have patience. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘O my son! How helpful you are to me in carrying out the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!’

Thereafter, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام tied his son as suggested by him, made him lie on his front with his forehead placed over the ground, sharpened his knife, averted his eyes from his face and ran the knife over his throat but the knife did not cut, i.e. his throat was not slit.

(Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 4, pp. 22)

Heavenly ram and collection of blessed words

When Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام lie on the ground for slaughtering him, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came with a ram from Paradise as Fidyah by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and said loudly from a distance ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’. Having heard this voice, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام raised his eyes towards the sky and realized that the time of the trial from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has been over and a ram has been sent as Fidyah in place of [his] son. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, therefore, said delightedly ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ وَاللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’. When Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام heard this he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ وَلِلّٰهِ الۡحَمۡدُ ’. Since then the Sunnah of reciting these blessed words by these three blessed

personalities عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام has been going on and it will go on until the Day of Judgement. (Binayah Sharh Hidayah, vol. 3, pp. 130)

Dear Islamic brothers! The abovementioned blessed parable also contains Madani pearls for us. As you have heard when Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام related his dream to Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام instead of being sad and frightened, rejoiced, considering himself to be fortunate because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ asked for his sacrifice and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got ready cheerfully to be sacrificed in the path of Allah Almighty. On the contrary, if somebody experiences a little difficulty or trouble in his life, he begins to complain. Being impatient he even مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ sometimes utters words of disbelief and displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . On such an occasion, one should exercise great patience as this trial is also mercy from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘Undoubtedly, more reward lies in a tough trial and when Allah Almighty loves any nation, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes them suffer a trial. So the one who is pleased with His Qaza, for him there is pleasure and the one who is displeased, for him there is displeasure.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-ul-Fitan, vol. 4, pp. 374, Raqm 4031)

This blessed event also gives us the lesson of giving upbringing to children. Our children are the apple of our eyes and peace of our hearts, but before this they are the bondmen of Allah Almighty, the Ummati of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the important members of the Islamic society. If our upbringing does not make them worship Allah Almighty, obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and love Sunnahs and hate sins, so we should not dream to make them our obedient because it is Islam that teaches a Muslim to become submissive and obedient to his parents. Therefore, we should always be ready to give our children moral and spiritual upbringing along with looking after their physical appearance, good food, nice clothing and other necessities.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How people started living in Makka-tul-Mukarramah

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام brought him [Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ] and his mother, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to Makkah and left them there. A long time passed and the Jurham tribe set up camp in Makkah Mukarramah; they also started living there. (During the same period of time, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had also grown into a young man.) Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام married one of the women belonging to that tribe; his mother, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away during this period of time. After a long time, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام visited his son’s house and asked his wife, ‘Where is your husband?’ She humbly replied, ‘He has gone hunting; may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you! Please have a seat, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he is about to come.’ Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked, ‘Do you have anything to eat?’ She replied in the affirmative and served him with milk and meat.’ When Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked her about their living, the wife of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly said: ‘We are well and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ prosperous.’ Thereafter, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a of blessing for both of them and told her to convey his Salam when her husband would come, and asked her to tell him to continue to have his door frame.’

When Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام felt the fragrance of his respected father and said to his wife: ‘Did anybody come here today?’ She replied, ‘Yes! A beautiful-faced and fragrant pious person came and then she related the whole event. She also said: ‘I washed his blessed head and these are his footsteps.’ Having heard the whole event, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘He (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) was my father, Sayyiduna Ibraheem and my door frame means you and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ordered me not to leave you.’

(Rooh-ul-Bayan, vol. 1, pp. 225)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this event, we have learnt the lesson that whenever a guest comes to us we should offer him hospitality as per our capacity. Instead of talking about our poverty, we should always thank Allah

Almighty in every state. Giving upbringing to children, in particular, to daughters, parents should give them the Dars of fulfilling the rights of their husbands and avoiding ungratefulness. They should also give their daughters the Dars not to forget the favours they receive besides teaching them other manners because words of ungratefulness not only destroy worldly life of a woman, but they can also destroy her Hereafter.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘I saw women in majority in Hell.’ The blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is the reason for this?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Because they are ungrateful.’ It was humbly asked: ‘Are they ungrateful to Allah Almighty?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘They are ungrateful to their husbands and the favours they receive from their husbands. So if you treat a woman well throughout your life, but she sees something that is to be disliked from you, she will say: I have never seen goodness from you .’

(Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-un-Nikah, vol. 3, pp. 463, Hadees 5197)

There is good news of Paradise for the Islamic sisters who wisely play the role of being obedient and grateful to their husbands. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘The woman who offers all five Salahs, observes Siyam of Ramadan, protects her honour and chastity and obeys her husband, it will be said to her: ‘Enter Paradise through whichever door of Paradise you wish.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 1, pp. 406, Hadees 1661)

Remember! A wife should also avoid being ungrateful to her husband because such type of thing if continues, it brings about hatred and hostility in the heart of her husband. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if their relations break up due to this, there will be nothing left, but regret throughout her life. Anyhow, a successful wife is she who never utters words of ungratefulness and who always gives her husband pleasure by being grateful to him. This beautiful and lovely relationship of love and affection between wife and husband may continue in a proper manner only when they both fulfil the rights of each other in a right way.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Attributes of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَلَيۡهِ السَّلَام

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with countless attributes, and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has been mentioned at many places in the Holy Quran. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the one who built Ka’bah Mu’azzamah and the founder of Makkah tul Mukarramah. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is ‘ جَدُّ الۡعَرب ’ (the grandfather of the Arab) and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is ‘ اَبُو الۡعَرب ’ (the father of the Arab). Aab-e-Zamzam is his Mu’jizah-e-Irhaas [a miracle that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم performed before the declaration of Nubuwwat]. It will continue until the Judgement Day. Only two miracles will remain until the Judgement Day: (1) Spring of the Zamzam Water which has sprung out by virtue of the heel of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام (2) The religion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم i.e., the Holy Quran, blessed Hadees and their laws and acts of worship.

(Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 16, pp. 285)

Remembrance of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَلَيۡهِ السَّلَام

Dear Islamic brothers! The miracle of Zamzam Water that will continue to exist until the Judgement Day, is superior and preferable to all types of water in the world by virtue of its relation to Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم .

Many years have passed, but still this water is benefiting the creation of Allah Almighty and also distributing the blessings of the cure of apparent and spiritual diseases. Ala Hadrat عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: Another miracle of the Zamzam Water is that its taste keeps changing all the time—sometimes it is salty to some extent and sometimes it is extremely sweet. If it is drunk at 2 am at night, it gives the taste of pure fresh milk that has just been taken from a cow. (He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said:) Whoever has plenty of blessed Zamzam needs neither any food nor medicine. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 435) It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Zamzam is food in place of food and medicine in place of medicine. (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 4, pp. 358, Hadees 2)

Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Zamzam Water:

-1 Zamzam water is sufficient for whatever purpose of the world and the Hereafter it is drunk. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 490, Hadees 3062)

-2 Drinking Zamzam water to one’s fill makes [him] get rid of hypocrisy.

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbaar, vol. 1, pp. 309, Hadees 2255)

-3 Zamzam water is better than every water [that is] present on the surface of the earth.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 80, Hadees 11167)

Zamzam water is a sign of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how Allah Almighty has blessed this sacred water with great glory and blessings! It will not only refresh our memory about the Nabi of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Isma’eel Zabihullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and his love, but it will also cure the bodily and spiritual diseases of the sick, the distressed, the grieved and the sad until the Judgement Day. Surely, the thing that bears its relation to the blessed body of Allah-loving people, its glory and dignity increase, or rather it becomes ‘ شَعَائِرُ اللّٰه ’ [the signs of Allah Almighty]. The renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: Safa and Marwah are the hills which Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا climbed up and down seven times in search of water. By virtue of the blessing of the touch of an Allah-loving blessed woman’s feet on the hills both these hills have become ‘ شَعَائِرُ اللّٰه ’ signs of Allah Almighty. Now, in imitation of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, climbing up and down these both hills seven times have become compulsory for Hajj pilgrims until the Day of Judgement.

The thing which the feet of pious people touch becomes ‘ شَعَائِرُ اللّٰه ’ the signs of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (He has further stated:) Toor-e-Seena (Mount Sinai) and Makkah

Mu’azzamah have become great because Toor bears relation to Kaleemullah (Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام) and Makkah Mu’azzamah bears relation to Habibullah (i.e. our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). In short, the things that belong to the beloveds of Allah Almighty become the signs of Allah Almighty such as the Holy Quran, Khana Ka’bah, Mount Safa and Mount Marwa, Makkah Mu’azzamah, Bait-ul-Muqaddas, Toor-e-Seena, shrines of blessed Ambiya and pious saints, the Zamzam Water, etc. (‘Ilm-ul-Quran, pp. 48-50)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

In the Holy Quran, the blessed name of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has been mentioned at many places and the Zikr of his glory and eminence has been stated everywhere. At one place Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated his (Sayyiduna Isma’eel’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) attributes in the following words, in Ayah 54, 55 of Surah Maryam, Part 16:

وَ اذْكُرْ فِی الْكِتٰبِ اِسْمٰعِیْلَ٘-اِنَّهٗ كَانَ صَادِقَ الْوَعْدِ وَ كَانَ رَسُوْلًا نَّبِیًّاۚ(۵۴) وَ كَانَ یَاْمُرُ اَهْلَهٗ بِالصَّلٰوةِ وَ الزَّكٰوةِ۪-وَ كَانَ عِنْدَ رَبِّهٖ مَرْضِیًّا(۵۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And remember Isma’eel in the Book; he was indeed true to his promise and was a Noble Messenger, a Prophet. He used to command his people to offer prayer and give charity, and was liked by his Lord. (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 54-55)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, four great attributes of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام have been mentioned: (1) He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was true to his promise (2) He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the one who would give news of Ghayb (3) He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the one who would enjoin his family members to

offer Salah and give Zakah (4) He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the favourite bondman of Allah Almighty.

True to promise!

Dear Islamic brothers! Here learn it by heart that all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are true to promise, but Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has an excellent reputation for this attribute. In his childhood, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام fulfilled the promise very well that he made to his respected father, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with patience and pleasure at the time of being slaughtered. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 4, pp. 22)

Once, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم made a promise to a person that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would meet him at a place. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام reached the place, but that person who was supposed to come, forgot and even evening started. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent the whole night at that place. In the morning, when that person came he was astonished to see Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم there. He humbly said, ‘Did you not leave?’ Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, ‘No, how could I leave before you came?’ (Tafseer Tabari, vol. 4, pp. 351)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how excellent attribute Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام possessed! Despite even being a Nabi he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم stayed the whole night at that place in order to fulfil the promise he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made to one of his Ummatis [followers].

Therefore, if we do not have any Shari compulsion, so adopting this very beautiful habit we should definitely fulfil the promise we make to someone. Alas! Today breach of promise is becoming widespread in our society. It is not regarded as bad though breach of promise is Haraam and a grave sin because fulfilling a promise is Wajib and compulsory for a Muslim as per Shari’ah. In Ayah 1 of Surah Al-Ma’idah, Part 6, Allah Almighty has said:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَوْفُوْا بِالْعُقُوْدِ۬ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! Fulfil your words (agreements). (Part 6, Surah Al-Ma’idah, Ayah 1)

Similarly, in Ayah 34 of Surah Bani Israeel, Part 15, Allah Almighty has stated:

اِنَّ الْعَهْدَ كَانَ مَسْـٴُـوْلًا (۳۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the promise will be asked about.

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 34)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘The Muslim who breaks an agreement and a promise incurs the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels and all humans and neither any of his Fard [obligatory] nor Nafl act will be accepted. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 370, Hadees 3179)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: People will not be destroyed until they break agreement with their people. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 4347)

What is breach of promise?

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how severe punishments there are for those who break promises! The one who breaks promises incurs the curse of Allah Almighty, His angels and all human beings. Neither any of his Fard act nor Nafl act is accepted. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Breach of promise does not mean that a person makes a promise [to someone] and he also intends to fulfil it, but rather breach of promise is that a person makes a promise, but he intends not to fulfil it. (Al-Jami’-ul-Akhlaq Ar-Rawi Al-Khateeb-ul-Baghdad, pp. 315, Hadees 1168)

In another blessed Hadees, it is stated: When a person makes a promise to his brother with the intention to fulfil it, but could not do so, and does not

come at the appointed time, so there is no sin for him. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 388, Hadees 4995)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Qafilah—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the pure attributes of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم . We should associate ourselves with Dawat-e-Islami in order to have such beautiful attributes. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing, our character will improve. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami many spoilt people have repented of their sins and started offering Salah regularly and acting upon Sunnahs. You also associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to make Sunnah-inspiring travel in the company of devotees of Rasool with the Madani Qafilahs that travel in the path of Allah Almighty. Virtues of travelling in the path of Allah Almighty have been mentioned at many places in blessed Ahadees. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person whose heart starts palpitating out of fear in the path of Allah Almighty, Allah Almighty makes Hell Haraam for him. (Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 369, Hadees 2460) It is stated at another place: The bondman whose feet are covered with dust in the path of Allah Almighty, the fire of Hell will not touch them. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 257, Hadees 2811)

We, therefore, should also propagate the message of Islam as much as possible after associating ourselves with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of a Madani Qafilah:

Blessing of Madani Qafilah

An Islamic brother from Punjab, Pakistan came to Faizan-e-Madinah, the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami, Babul Madinah, Karachi for a Tarbiyyati Course. During this course, suddenly he had a pain on the left side of his belly. The pain was so severe that he was given seven injections then the pain subsided. As the day began, his ultrasound was carried out, but doctors could not understand the cause of the pain. That Islamic brother was admitted in a hospital. He learnt there that the Islamic brothers next to him who also came for Tarbiyyati Course were getting ready to travel with a Madani Qafilah for 12 days for learning Sunnah. Doctor prevented him a lot from travelling, but he could not stop himself and started travelling with a Madani Qafilah to Dera Bugti, Baluchistan. On the way to Dera Bugti, he felt a slight pain, but by virtue of the blessing of the Du’a made in the Madani Qafilah, the pain disappeared in a way as if it had never occurred.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the blessed attributes of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام mentioned in the Holy Quran is that:

وَ كَانَ یَاْمُرُ اَهْلَهٗ بِالصَّلٰوةِ وَ الزَّكٰوةِ۪-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And he [Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ] used to command his people to offer prayer and give charity.

(Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 55)

It has been learnt that persuading family members to perform righteous deeds and make them habitual of offering Salah are Sunnahs of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Therefore, realizing the importance of Salah we should not only offer all five Salahs ourselves regularly in the first row of the Masjid with the first Takbeer with Jama’at, but we should also take our sensible children with us to the Masjid.

Remember! If we take our sensible children with us to the Masjid for Salah along with offering Salah regularly, their little minds will turn to Salah from their childhood because the habit that sticks in children’s minds from their childhood, becomes naturally deep-seated in their minds even when they grow up. Keep telling children the virtues of Salah from time to time to make them habitual of offering Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessings, our children will become regular in offering Salah from a very young age.

At present, it is very necessary to give good upbringing to children and make them habitual of offering Salah, observing Siyam and performing all acts of worship from their childhood. For giving correct upbringing to children as per Sunnah, study the 188-page book ‘Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad, published by Maktaba tul Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.’ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this book will prove to be helpful in giving excellent upbringing to children as per Islamic teachings.

Remember! Before persuading children to perform any righteous deed, we have to get into the habit of performing that deed ourselves! Otherwise, whatever we say will not be effective and it will become difficult to get the intended results. Therefore, we have to get into the regular habit of offering Salah ourselves before we persuade our children to offer Salah, etc.

Many good pieces of news for those who offer Salah and countless virtues of Salah have been mentioned in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to a blessed saying of Allah Almighty in order to gain Islamic knowledge and make up our minds to offer Salah regularly. In Ayah 12 of Surah Al-Ma’idah, Part 6, Allah Almighty has stated:

وَ قَالَ اللّٰهُ اِنِّیْ مَعَكُمْؕ-لَىٕنْ اَقَمْتُمُ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَیْتُمُ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah said, ‘Indeed I am with you; surely, if you establish the prayer and pay the charity, and believe in My Noble Messengers and respect them, and lend an excellent loan to Allah, I will surely forgive your sins, and I will surely admit you into Gardens beneath which rivers flow. (Part 6, Surah Al-Ma’idah, Ayah 12)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! There are great blessings for Salah-offering people in the blessed court of Allah Almighty, such as they are being given good pieces of news of Paradise and forgiveness. They are being given good pieces of news of great reward too. Great importance and persuasion have also been made for Salah in blessed Ahadees. For persuasion, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made five Salahs Fard [obligatory]. The one who performs Wudu in a better way for them and offers them at their (right) time, and completes their Ruku and Sujood with humility, so it is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty to forgive him and the one who does not perform them, so there is nothing for him upon Allah Almighty; if He wills, He may forgive him and if He wills, He may torment him. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 1, pp. 186, Raqm 425)

2) If there were a stream in the courtyard of anyone of you, and he took bath in it five times a day, would there be any dirt left on him? People humbly said: ‘No.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Salah washes sins as water washes dirt.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 165, Hadees 1397)

Dear Islamic brothers! Salah-offering people are so fortunate that they have such Divine mercy which removes their sins. By virtue of the blessing of Salah, previous sins are forgiven and a person begins to avoid committing sins and the indecent acts in the future. Attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami, take part in Madani visits and start giving Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat in your Masajid, Mahallahs and homes in order to maintain the habit of offering Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will not only continue to have the habit of offering Salah yourself, but you will also get a great reward of presenting others the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The sacred month of Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam is about to begin soon. It is the month of great blessing and mercy. Therefore, perform as much worship and spiritual exercises as possible in this month. Observe Nafl Siyam in this month as well if possible because Nafl Siyam have countless virtues and blessings. Further, the virtues of first ten days of Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam have also been mentioned in blessed Ahadees.

Excellence equal to night of Qadr

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: "There are no days more beloved to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He be worshipped in them than the ten days of Zul-Hijjah, Sawm of every day of them is the equivalent to observing Siyam of a year, and standing every night of them (in Salah) is the equivalent of standing on the Night of Qadr." (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 192, Hadees 758)

Sawm of ‘Araf ah

Sayyiduna Abu Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ narrates the following blessed statement of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘I have hope to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the Sawm of

‘Arafah (9 th Zul-Hijjah) removes the sins of the previous year and the next year.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 590, Hadees 196)

One Sawm is equal to thousand Siyam

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The Sawm of ‘Arafah (9th Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam) is equal to a thousand Siyam.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 357, Hadees 3764)

However, it is Makruh to observe Sawm on the day of Arafah (i.e. on 9th Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam) for the one who is in Arafat to perform Hajj.

It has been narrated from Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade Hujjaj (Hajj pilgrims) to observe Sawm on the day of ‘Arafah (9th Zul-Hijjah) in Arafat. (Sahih Ibn Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 292, Hadees 2101)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how great virtues and blessings one can get if he observes Siyam in the month of Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam! We, therefore, should get into the habit of observing Nafl Siyam besides performing Qurbani and other acts of worship in this blessed month . اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of it, we will attain countless blessings and mercy.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Madani Qafilah!

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We are very fortunate that Allah Almighty has blessed us with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Dawat-e-Islami is busy presenting the call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments for preaching Islam. One of them is Majlis Madani Qafilah.

Under the supervision of Majlis Madani Qafilah, countless Madani Qafilahs of devotees of Rasool travel for 3 days, 12 days, 1 month and 12 months from country to country, city to city, village to village propagating Islamic knowledge and Sunnahs and presenting the call towards righteousness for learning Sunnahs. Under the supervision of Majlis Madani Qafilah, Madani Tarbiyati (Training) Centres have been established at many places. In these Madani Tarbiyat Centres, Islamic brothers who come from faraway and nearby areas stay and attain the Tarbiyat of Sunnahs [learn Sunnahs] in the company of devotees of Rasool and then go to nearby areas to present the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of treating relatives well!

At the end of the speech, let’s have the privilege to listen to a few Madani pearls of treating relatives well. First, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

… ٭ Every good treatment is Sadaqah whether it is with a rich person or a Faqeer. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 331, Raqm 4754)

… ٭ The one who treats his parents well, congratulations to him because Allah Almighty has increased his age. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 213, Hadees 7339)

… ٭ Treating relatives well is Wajib and breaking ties with them is Haraam and an act leading to Hell. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 558)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of treating relatives well will be mentioned in Tarbiyyati Halqahs, therefore, do attend Tarbiyyati Halqahs to know about these Madani pearls.

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ مَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 9 August 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of treating relatives well!

… ٭ Kind treatment does not only mean treating those relatives kindly who have treated you kindly. This would be actually an ‘exchange of treatment’. For example, sending a gift to the relative who has sent you a gift or going to the house of one who comes to yours. In actual fact, kind treatment means establishing ties with one who cuts off ties with you and caring about the relative who ignores you and stays away from you.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 678)

… ٭ One can treat his relatives with kindness in different ways. For example, giving them gifts, helping them if they need it, saying Salam to them, meeting them, sitting with them, talking to them and treating them gracefully and nicely. (Kitab Ad-Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

… ٭ One should meet his relatives every other day or with gaps, as appropriate, as it will develop affection. One can also meet his relatives weekly or monthly. (Kitab Ad-Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

… ٭ The whole family and community should be united. One should also help his relatives when they are in the right [i.e. justified] in any issue. All of them should favour the truth with unity. (Kitab Ad-Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

… ٭ Not fulfilling need of relative is sin: When any of the relatives requests help for the fulfilment of his need we must help him because turning down this request is like breaking ties with him. (Kitab Ad-Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

For further details about treating relatives well, please study the booklet ‘ Hatho Hath Phuphi say Sulh Ker li ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for refraining from malice towards believers

The Du’a for “ refraining from malice towards believers ” will be memorised as per the schedule in the Madani Halqahs [circles] of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week:

لَا تَجْعَلْ فِیْ قُلُوْبِنَا غِلًّا لِّلَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا رَبَّنَاۤ اِنَّكَ رَءُوْفٌ رَّحِیْمٌ۠(۱۰)

Translation: And do not keep any malice in our hearts towards the believers. O our Lord! Indeed only You are Most Compassionate, Most Merciful.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

… ٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

… ٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

… ٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

… ٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

-1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

-2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

-3 Inquired after an ill person?

-4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

-5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

-6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

-7 Sent a letter?

-8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

