اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Medical Benefits of Wudu

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً

i.e. ‘Indeed, he who recites Salat (Durood) upon me the most, will be the closest to me on the Day of Judgement.’ (Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards and pleasing Allah. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, every wise person knows it well that cleanliness increases the dignity of a human, whereas filthiness decreases human’s respect and dignity. Islam has not only given respect to humans by purifying them from the filthiness of disbelief and Shirk [attributing partners to Allah], it has also elevated the dignity of mankind by apparent purity and the great teachings of cleanliness. Anyhow whether it is purity of body or cleanliness of clothes, improvement of homes and furniture and fittings or washing of conveyance (automobiles), in short, Islam has taught and persuaded us to keep everything neat and clean.

In part 2 of Surah Baqarah, verse 22, Allah Almighty has stated:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ یُحِبُّ التَّوَّابِیْنَ وَ یُحِبُّ الْمُتَطَهِّرِیْنَ(۲۲۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah loves those who repent abundantly, and loves those who purify themselves.

Similarly, the importance of cleanliness has been explained in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it.

Blessed Ahadees on the importance of cleanliness

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: اَلطُّھُوْرُنِصْفُ الْاِیْمَانِ i.e. Cleanliness is half faith. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 308, Hadees 3530)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly, Islam is neat and clean [religion], so you also attain purity because the one who is neat and clean will enter Paradise. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 5, pp. 123, Hadees 25996)

So we should try our best to keep ourselves neat and clean from every type of uncleanliness and filth and should do such things by which we can achieve this purpose. Undoubtedly, it is an excellent deed to stay in the state of Wudu in order to keep ourselves neat and clean and to maintain our health. Every wise person can judge it very well how sensitive and important body parts back bone and spinal cord are. According to the research of physiology, as long as the spinal cord is safe, the nervous system of the body will function correctly. If it develops any kind of malfunction, a person becomes disabled for the rest of his life. Similarly, hopelessness and psychological diseases are also spreading very rapidly in our society.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, Wudu is such an excellent deed that saves a person from many diseases like the disease of back bone, problem in the spinal cord, hopelessness, psychological diseases and paralysis. Modern scientific research is a living proof of it. Let’s listen to some medical benefits of washing the body parts which are washed during Wudu in the light of modern scientific research.

Embraced Islam by virtue of the wisdom of Wudu

On page 1 and 2 of his booklet, ‘Wudu and Science’ Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has written: Someone has stated: I invited a non-Muslim University student to Islam in Belgium. He asked me a question: What scientific wisdom does Wudu have? I fell silent. I took him to an Islamic scholar, but he did not have the information of it either. A person having scientific information told him many benefits of Wudu, but he could not tell him the wisdom of the Mash [1] [ مَسْح ] of the neck. Anyhow, that non-Muslim young man left. After some time, he came and said that during a lecture his professor said, ‘If some drops of water are sprinkled at the back of the neck and around it daily, a person will stay safe from the diseases which develop due to the damage in the backbone and the spinal cord.’ He further said, ‘After listening to it I have understood the wisdom of the Mash [ مَسْح ] of the neck during Wudu, therefore I want to embrace Islam.’ He then embraced Islam. (Wudu and Science, pp. 1 - 2)

Seminar in Germany

In different countries of the world, depression is spreading rapidly; people are going mad; the number of mental hospitals is rising; a large number of patients are found with psychiatrists. A Pakistani physiotherapist who is a diploma holder from Western Germany says: A seminar was held in Western Germany; the topic of the seminar was, ‘In which ways other than medicines is the cure of depression possible? A doctor in his thesis has revealed a wonderful fact: I made the patients of depression wash their faces daily five times. After some time, their illness reduced. Then I made another group of the same type of patients wash their hands, faces and feet, the illness reduced to a great extent. At the end of his thesis, the same doctor admits: The disease of depression is low amongst Muslims because they wash their hands, faces and feet many times a day (i.e. they perform Wudu). (Wudu and Science, pp. 2- 3)

Wudu and high blood pressure

A heart specialist has said very confidently, ‘Make a patient of high blood pressure perform Wudu and then check his blood pressure, it must be low. It is a saying of a Muslim psychiatrist: ‘Wudu is the best cure of psychological disorders’. Western experts make mental patients put water on their bodies like Wudu many times daily. (Wudu and Science, pp. 3)

Wudu and paralysis

There lies also wisdom in the sequence in which body parts are washed during Wudu. The nervous system of the body becomes alert when hands are put into water first and then slowly its effects reach the veins of the face and the brain. During Wudu a person first washes his hands then rinses his mouth then sniffs water into his nose, then washes his face and other body parts all in order. This sequence is useful in preventing paralysis. If someone starts Wudu by washing his face and doing Mash [ مَسْح ], his body may suffer from many diseases. (Wudu and Science, pp. 3)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, Wudu has the cure of very dangerous diseases! Today’s science is also telling us its medical benefits. Therefore we should get into the habit of always staying in the state of Wudu so that we can also attain many benefits of the world and the Hereafter by virtue of its blessing. Remember! To stay always in the state of Wudu is Mustahab and a Sunnah of Islam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 702; summarised) Persuasion and excellence have also been mentioned in a blessed Hadees for always staying in the state of Wudu.

Excellence of staying in the state of Wudu all the time

Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: Son! If you have the strength to always stay in the state of Wudu, you should do it because the person whose soul the angel of death seizes in the state of Wudu, martyrdom is written for him. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 29, Hadees 2783)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Some blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: Allah Almighty blesses the one who always stays in the state of Wudu with seven virtues:

1. Angels desire to have his company.

2. Pen continues to write virtues for him.

3. His body parts glorify Allah Almighty.

4. He does not miss the first Takbeer.

5. When he sleeps, Allah Almighty sends some angels so that they protect him from the evil of Jinns and humans.

6. Agonies of death become easy for him.

7. He is in Divine protection as long as he remains in the state of Wudu. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 702)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Some blessed Sufia رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی said: Wearing clean clothes, sleeping on a clean bed and always staying in the state of Wudu are a source of cleaning the heart. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 1, pp. 468)

It is stated on page 95 and 96 of ‘Hafizah kaysay mazboot ho?’ a book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Get into the habit of staying in the state of Wudu all the time because by staying in the state of Wudu not only does a person get other countless benefits and blessings, he also gets rid of the disease of considering himself to be inferior to others. (Hafizah kaysay mazboot ho?, pp. 95 – 96; summarised)

An excellent way to form the habit of staying in the state of Wudu and to attain steadfastness in it is to fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily. Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat Hadrat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has also included one Madani In’aam about the persuasion of staying in the state of Wudu most part of the day in his booklet namely, ‘72 Madani In’amaat’.

Madani In’aam 39 says: Today did you stay in the state of Wudu most part of the day?

May Allah Almighty enable us to fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily and also enable us to attain its blessings by staying in the state of Wudu most part of the day!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَي ۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! We may usually be privileged to perform Wudu daily before Salah and other acts of worship, but perhaps we may not have pondered over it as to why we start Wudu by washing hands. So remember! We do many types of work by hands throughout the day, that’s why many types of dangerous germs stick to our hands. If they are not kept neat and clean so the germs which stick to them may enter our stomach. After making intention and reciting بِسْمِ اللّٰہ we start Wudu and wash both hands three times up to the wrists. By virtue of the blessing of this act we get the reward for acting upon Sunnah and we also remain safe from many diseases and germs.

Wisdom of washing hands

On page number 10 of his booklet namely ‘Wudu and Science’ Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has written: One uses his hands to touch many things. As a result, different chemical substances and germs come into contact with hands. If hands are not washed throughout the day, they may have skin infections e.g. pimples on the hand, skin irritation, eczema and fungus infections etc. When we wash hands, rays emit from our finger-tips, activating our internal electromagnetic system, a part of which approaches our hands and causes beautification of the hands. (Wudu and Science, pp. 10, summarised)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Miswak is also such an excellent Sunnah of Wudu which is full of many wisdom and many benefits of the world and the Hereafter are hidden in it. Learned people have mentioned many virtues and benefits of Miswak in books, but modern science has carried out a research on Miswak and has revealed such facts about it that astonish our intellect. Let’s listen to a few worldly and Hereafter benefits of Miswak.

25 blessings of Miswak

‘Allamah Sayyid Ahmad Tahtaawi Hanafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated:

Make the use of blessed Miswak obligatory. Do not be careless with it. Always use it because in it lies the pleasure of Allah Almighty. The use of Miswak brings ease and blessing in sustenance; it makes headache go away; it removes phlegm, improves vision, makes the stomach better and gives energy to the body; it sharpens memory and increases intellect; it purifies the heart and increases virtues. Angels feel happy. Miswak displeases the devil and digests food; it increases the birth of children; by virtue of using it a person remains young for a long time; it strengthens the back; it gives strength to the body to obey Allah Almighty. It will make things easy at the time of death and remind a person of Kalimah Shahadat. It will bring the Book of Deeds in the right hand on the Judgment Day. It will help to cross Siraat Bridge as swift as electricity. The one who uses Miswak will be helped. He will find comfort and peace in his grave. The doors of Paradise will be opened for him. He departs this life after being neat and clean. And the most important benefit is that it pleases Allah Almighty. (Hashiyah Tahtaawi, pp. 69 – Miswak Shareef kay Fazail, pp. 19)

Blessing of Miswak! Will continue. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Blessing of Miswak! Will continue. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Medical benefits of Miswak from scientific perspective

٭ According to a research of a famous company of America, Miswak has the capability to kill any harmful bacteria 20 percent more than any other method.

٭ According to a research of Swedish scientists, the bristles of Miswak kill bacteria directly without touching them and protect teeth from many diseases.

٭ In the published research of US National Library of Medicine it is stated that if a Miswak is used correctly, it is the best source of cleaning teeth, mouth and of the health of gums.

٭ According to research, the gums of the people who have a habit of using Miswak bleed very less.

٭ In a session about teeth in America it has been said that Miswak contains such substances which protect teeth from growing weak. Miswak is the most beneficial amongst all the medicines which are used in cleaning teeth.

٭ Miswak removes the layer which has stuck to teeth.

٭ Miswak protects teeth from wear and tear.

٭ When the patient who cannot bring up phlegm due to having chronic cold and flu uses Miswak, he starts getting rid of phlegm which relaxes his mind.

٭ Experiments and researches have proved that Miswak is the best cure for chronic cold. (Miswak Shareef kay Fazail, pp. 7 - 8)

Blessing of Miswak! Will continue. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Blessing of Miswak! Will continue. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Treatment of gastric acidity and mouth blisters by Miswak

Some types of mouth blisters are developed by stomach heat and acidity. One of them is that whose germs spread. For this rub fresh Miswak in the

mouth and also rub a lot the saliva which forms through it. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the disease will go away. Some people make a complaint that their teeth have gone yellow or their enamel have eroded. For such people, new bristles of Miswak are useful. It is also beneficial to remove the yellowness of teeth. Miswak removes foul smell of the mouth and kills the germs of the mouth. Hence a person can stay safe from countless diseases. (Miswak Shareef kay Fazail, pp. 8 - 9)

Protection from cancer

According to a survey, if there are 100 cancer patients, so out of these hundred patients 5 will be Muslims, that is to say, one of the reasons why cancer is low in Muslims is the use of Miswak because inside the mouth the germs which remain alive even after the use of a toothpaste are killed with the help of the thin bristles of Miswak. That’s why Muslims remain safe from the mouth and stomach cancer.

Medical treatment of throat pain and neck swelling with Miswak

A person had a sore throat and pain and swelling in his neck. Due to the illness of the throat he lost his voice. He also started feeling dizzy due to the neck pain and swelling and his memory also became weak. He remained under the treatment of doctors but all proved useless. Someone suggested him to use Miswak so he started using Miswak regularly. Besides this he would boil a Miswak after breaking it into two pieces and would gargle with the same water. In addition, he would also apply some medicine to the swelled part. This treatment proved to be very useful. When a research was carried out it was revealed that his thyroid glands were affected which affected his entire body. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of the treatment given to him with Miswak, he recovered and became healthy.

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard! By virtue of the blessing of blessed Miswak those who use Miswak are blessed with great virtues and blessings. They are privileged to gain great benefits. So if we also get into the habit of staying in the state of Wudu and act upon this great Sunnah of using Miswak, so surely we will also get these virtues, blessings and benefits اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Let’s make intention that we will stay in the state of Wudu most of the day from today, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will revive the beautiful Sunnah of Miswak. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and will give some time to 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah by remaining associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to attain steadfastness in these acts اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

‘Madani Dars’ one of the 12 Madani activities

Remember! One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is a daily ‘Madani Dars’ which is an excellent source of gaining and imparting Islamic knowledge. Giving Dars from all books and booklets (except few) of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ in Masajid, Chowks (busy places), markets, shops, offices, homes, etc., especially from the following chapters of ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat volume one’ and ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat volume two’ namely (1) Backbiting a cancer of society and (2) Call to righteousness, is called ‘Madani Dars’ in organizational terminology.

٭ Madani Dars is a very beautiful Madani activity.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars one is privileged to go to a Masjid again and again.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars one gets the opportunity to study books and booklets.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars the Sunnahs of meeting and saying Salam to Muslims are propagated.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars precious Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge about different topics from the books and booklets of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat can be conveyed to Muslim Ummah.

٭ Madani Dars is very helpful in making non-Salah-offering people Salah-offering.

٭ Madani Dars is a very useful source of presenting the call towards righteousness to those who do not go to the Masjid to offer Salah.

٭ If Madani Dars is given at Chowks, markets, shops, etc., apart from Masajid, by virtue of its blessing the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, will be promoted.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars different books and booklets of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ will be introduced to people.

Du’a of Attar: O Allah! Forgive me and the Islamic brother or sister, who gives or listens to two Dars daily, without any accountability and keep us together in the neighbourhood of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable of a ‘Madani Dars’.

One who sat for Madani Dars became Islamic scholar

There was an Islamic brother from Babul Islam (Sindh) who was in class nine and was busy with his worldly life. The Islamic brothers of his area brought him to the Masjid after presenting him the call towards righteousness. When after offering Salah he started leaving the Masjid, a kind Islamic brother standing near the gate of the Masjid invited him to attend the Dars. He sat to listen to the Madani Dars (Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat). He then by the individual efforts of the Islamic brothers started studying at Madrasa tul Madinah (adults). He also attended the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. After a few weeks a telephonic speech of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ was relayed. After the speech Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ made everyone repent of their sins collectively and made them his disciples, so this Islamic brother also repented of his sins and became Attari. By virtue of the blessing of Madani environment he gained admission in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Faizan-e-Madinah, Babul Madinah, Karachi) for gaining Islamic knowledge in 1999 and was privileged to wear ‘Imamah as Dastar-e-Fazeelat by the hands of our beloved Murshid Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ when he became an Islamic scholar in 2005.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the speech about the medical benefits of Wudu. Remember! Mouth is a precious part of our body with many benefits. For example, we eat food, drink water, take medicines and eat many other things by mouth. We also recite the Holy Quran with it. We recite Hamd, Na’at and Manqabat with this. We say Salam and have conversation by it. In addition, we perform many other pieces of work by this mouth, so all these things demand that we should keep our mouth neat and clean. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of rinsing mouth and gargling during Wudu the mouth also remains neat and clean and one remains safe from many diseases. Let’s listen to some medical benefits of rinsing mouth and gargling.

Medical benefits of rinsing mouth and gargling

Countless dangerous germs and parts of food stick to our mouth and teeth with saliva. If we do not clean our mouth in an excellent way by Miswak and rinsing during Wudu, many dangerous diseases may develop in it. For example:

1. AIDS: The initial symptoms of AIDS also include mouth sores.

2. Angular cheilitis

3. Fungal infection and blisters in the mouth, etc.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ We can protect ourselves from these dangerous diseases by rinsing mouth during Wudu. By rinsing mouth we can recognize the taste and smell of the water we are using in order to know if it is harmful to health. Likewise, if we are not fasting, we should gargle as gargling along with rinsing the mouth is also Sunnah. The one who gargles regularly stays safe from the increased pharynx, tonsillitis and many other throat illnesses. He even stays safe from the throat cancer.

Medical benefits of sniffing water into nose

Dear Islamic brothers! Sniffing water into the nose during Wudu is very effective from medical point of view and it protects a person from many diseases. Since we breathe by the nose throughout the day, smoke, dust, and

different other types of germs enter the nose through breathing. Sniffing water into the nose approximately 15 times a day during Wudu can protect us from germs and the dangerous diseases caused by smoke. Similarly, lungs need the air that is free from germs and smoke containing 80% moisture. For providing us with such air Allah Almighty has blessed us with the blessing of nose. By virtue of putting water into the nose during Wudu we become safe from countless diseases. For the patients who are suffering from a chronic cold and have wounds in their nose it is very effective to sniff water into the nose like done during Wudu. As per the experts who treat patients with water, putting water into the nose improves vision.

Dear Islamic brothers! Some people try different home remedies and prescriptions and apply expensive creams on their faces in order to improve the beauty and give freshness to their faces and to get rid of acne and pimples from their faces so that they can have artificial beauty on their faces. Remember! By using home remedies and prescriptions and applying expensive creams a person’s face glows for the time being, but later on due to using them wrinkles, pustules, acne and pimples and very strange spots appear on the face which cause great pain and due to them the face instead of becoming beautiful becomes ugly. Wudu is an excellent prescription for improving the beauty of the face and for giving freshness to the face because the face is washed three times during Wudu by virtue of which not only the beauty of the face increases, but by virtue of the blessing of it many other medical benefits are also obtained. Let’s listen to some medical benefits of washing face during Wudu and gain blessings of staying in the state of Wudu.

Medical benefits of washing face

By moving hands three times on the face during Wudu not only the brain feels relaxed, but the face also brightens and skin grows soft. Smoke, dust, etc., are cleaned from the face giving attraction, beauty and awe to the face. It comforts the parts of eyes and eyes become beautiful. A European doctor has written a thesis named ‘Eye Water Heath’. In this thesis, he has stressed that eyes should be washed many times a day, otherwise a person can suffer from dangerous illnesses. If someone washes his face many times a day, pimples either do not appear or few pimples appear on his face. According to

a research carried out by Chinese experts, washing face also exerts good effect on the small intestine, chest and large intestine, etc. which reduces significantly eye diseases, the feeling of giddiness, weakness, weakness of teeth, headache, fatigue and nervousness, etc. During Wudu when the face is washed, eyelashes are moist [with water] and according to the medical rules, by wetting eyelashes the possibilities of such an eye disease remain no more which can make a person lose his vision.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Medical benefits of doing Mash [ مَسْح ] of head and washing feet

Head is the most important part of the human body. The functions of all the body parts are linked to the brain. There is ‘ حَبْلُ الْوَرِیْد ’ between the head and neck which is also called jugular vein. It is linked to the backbone, the spinal cord and all the joints of the body. By doing the Mash [ مَسْح ] of the head and the neck, one stays safe from the diseases developed due to the damage in backbone and the spinal cord. Similarly, in the human body the thing which can cover with dust the most is foot. Infection first starts from the middle part of toes. Diabetic patients suffer more from the foot infection. Like palms the sole of the foot is linked to all nerves especially to glands. So by virtue of the blessing of washing feet these patients have decreased appetite, feel relief from raging fever, sciatica [pain which starts from groin and goes down to the ankle], nosebleed, jaundice, joint pain, piles, giddiness, sexual weakness, constipation, panting, etc. (Collected from different Websites)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

What intentions should be made before Wudu?

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to the medical benefits of Wudu it is hoped that we must have made our mind to be in the state of Wudu, but remember, the science of medicine is not certain. Scientific researches are not even final and they also keep changing. However, the commandments of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are final and certain

and they will never change. We should act upon Sunnahs not to attain medical benefits, but to only please Allah Almighty. Those who perform Wudu so that their blood pressure becomes normal or they get refreshed or fast for dieting so that they can get the benefits of appetite, travel to Madinah so that they can have some change of climate and get some relief from their homes and business activities or study Islamic books to pass time will not get reward for their deeds because of such intentions. If we perform deeds to please Allah Almighty, we will also get reward along with their benefits. Therefore keeping in view apparent and hidden etiquette we should also perform Wudu to please Allah Almighty.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Though we succeed in cleansing our outer-self by virtue of the blessing of Wudu, more than this we desperately need to cleanse our hearts of the filth of sins. Therefore the way we purify our outer-self of sins by performing Wudu, in the same way, when we cleanse our inner-self by making repentance and bow down before our Lord we will get more blessings.

Great Madani method of Tasawwuf

On page 425 of ‘Ihya-ul-‘Uloom’, volume one published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, highlighting the importance of the cleanliness of the heart, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When we finish Wudu and pay attention to Salah, we should have this thing in mind that I have cleansed my outer-self which everyone sees, therefore I should feel ashamed of making Munajat in Divine court without cleansing my heart because Allah Almighty sees it and it is certain that the heart can be cleansed by repentance. It is necessary for the heart to like good manners and dislike bad manners. So the person who is confined to only outer purity is like the one who intends to invite the king to his home and in order to please the king, he cleans and paints the outside of his home but leaves the interior dirty and full of garbage. Of course, the king

will be very displeased with such a person. Allah Almighty knows better. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 185)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to learn the method of inner cleanliness and to form the habit of staying in the state of Wudu keep associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool and support Dawat-e-Islami in propagating the call towards righteousness. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam approximately in 107 departments all over the world. One of them is ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ under the supervision of which the first ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ was established on 15 Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam [1421] at Jami’ Masjid Kanz-ul-Iman, Babri Chowk Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi). So far, many ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ have been established in different areas of Karachi and different cities of Pakistan where blessed Muftis are busy guiding Muslim Ummah [nation] as per Shari’ah. In addition, the blessed Muftis of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat tell the solutions of the problems asked by the Muslims from all around the world on the telephone and on the internet. Questions are asked from all around the world by this email address (darulifta@dawateislami.net) on the internet. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a very popular and very informative series from the series of Madani Channel by the name of ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ is also broadcast on Madani Channel.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in cooperation with Majlis IT, a Majlis of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat Mobile Application’ has also been introduced to propagate Islamic knowledge. Dawat-e-Islami is making further progress. Remember! Dar-ul-Ifta can be contacted from morning 10:00 to evening 4:00 as per Pakistan Standard Time. There is a break from 1:00 to 2:00 PM and Friday is a holiday. May Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat be blessed with more progress!

Madani pearls of avoiding wastage of water

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege to listen to a few Madani pearls of avoiding wastage of water. First of all listen to two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There is no goodness in making plenty of water flow during Wudu and this deed is from the devil. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 144, Hadees 26255)

2. Once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a person performing Wudu, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Do not waste, do not waste. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 254, Hadees 424)

3. If someone performs Wudu with Waqf water, so using more water than needed is Haraam in the sight of all Islamic scholars.

(Wudu ka Tariqah, pp. 42)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of avoiding wastage of water will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 06 June 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of avoiding wastage of water

٭ Some people fill water in their hands in a way that water spills. The spilled water is wasted. Care must be taken in this regard.

٭ Repent of all past unlawful wastage and make every possible attempt to avoid it in future.

٭ During Wudu, open the tap carefully. During Wudu, keep one hand on the tap wherever possible and keep turning the tap off when the water is not needed.

٭ Make a habit of turning your tap off completely so that not a single drop of water leaks while using a Miswak, rinsing, gargling, cleaning your nose, doing Khilal of your beard, hands, feet; and wiping your head.

٭ Avoid draining cold water for using hot water for Wudu, Ghusl, washing clothes, utensils etc. Pay attention to it especially in winter. You can avoid wasting this cold water by collecting it in some sort of container (for later use).

٭ Also use water carefully when forming soap lather (rubbing your hands) in order to clean your hands or face.

٭ After use, place your soap in a totally water free soap holder.

٭ If you have a constantly leaking tap, you must take immediate action to get it repaired; otherwise water will continue to go to waste. Sometimes, taps in Masajid and Madaris drip continuously but nobody cares about it.

Managements should take prompt remedial actions fulfilling their responsibility for the betterment of their own afterlife.

٭ Be very careful when eating, drinking tea or other beverages, cutting fruits etc. so that each and every particle of food and drop of beverage is used. (Wudu ka Tariqah – Urdu, pp. 45, 46, 47)

Du’as to be recited before and after Wudu

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, Du’as before and after Wudu will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’as are as follows:

Du’a before Wudu

بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْم

Translation: Allah’s Name (I) begin with, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.

بِسْمِ اللہِ وَالْحَمْدُلِلّٰہِ

Translation: Allah’s Name (I) begin with and all praise is due to Allah.

Du’a after Wudu

اَللّٰھُمَّ اجْعَلْنِیْ مِنَ التَّوَّابِیْنَ وَاجْعَلْنِیْ مِنَ الْمُتَطَھِّرِیْنَ

Translation: O Allah! Make me amongst those who repent abundantly and make me amongst those who remain pure.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 1, pp. 121, Hadees 55)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

