اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Effect of Mother’s Du’a

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one, before whom I am mentioned, and he does not recite Salat upon me, he abandons the path to Jannah. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 128, Hadees 2887)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود ان پہ سدا میں

اور ذکر کا بھی شوق پئے غوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dignity of mother!

Dear Islamic brothers! Mother is a unique gift of Allah عزوجل . The dignity of mother has been mentioned in the Holy Quran and Ahadees. One who obeys his mother succeeds in attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Mother sacrifices her comfort for the comfort of her children. Child’s body is formed from Mother’s blood. For many years Mother lulls her child to sleep by patting him. Mother grows restless and weeps when she sees her child sick. Mother spends the whole night awake for the sake of her sick child even in very cold winter. Mother wanders in expensive hospitals and clinics for the sake of her sick child. Mother devotes her entire life for her child for making the future of her child better. Mother is like a shady tree for her child. Mother endures heat herself, but she waves fan with her hand for her child. Mother makes her child sit in the shade whereas she herself endures the scorching sun. Mother pampers her children. Mother fulfils the wishes of her children even by borrowing money. Mother does not let her children wander after her husband’s death. Mother endures the pains before the birth, during the birth and after the birth of her child. Mother makes her child a good human. Mother feels happy even after sacrificing her food for her child and herself sleeps hungry. Mother makes her child lie on a warm bed and lies herself on a cold floor. Mother does not think anything bad for her children. Mother’s happiness lies in the happiness of her children. Mother gets restless when she sees her children in trouble. Mother encourages her children in difficulties. Mother does not leave even her disabled child helpless. Mother becomes affectionate and kind even to her disobedient child. The home seems deserted without Mother. The one who looks after his mother lives a comfortable and peaceful life. To serve mother entails her child to enter Paradise. It is mandatory for a child to keep his mother happy. It is impossible to be free from the rights of mother.

Carried mother on shoulders (and walked) 6 miles on hot stones …

A companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘On a path, stones were so hot that a piece of meat would have roasted if it had been put onto them! I carried my mother on my shoulders for six miles. Am I free from the rights of my mother?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ

وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Perhaps, this could be the return for one of the contractions she endured in labour.’ (Al-Mu’jam-us-Sagheer lit-Tabarani, vol. 1, pp. 92, Hadees 256)

Mother is the kind personage who makes Du’as tearfully for her children. The Du’a of mother leads to Paradise. The Du’a of mother makes children obedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Du’a of mother protects from evils. The Du’a of mother blesses children with the status of sainthood. The Du’a of mother changes the fortune of children. The Du’a of mother is answered for her children. The Du’a of mother leads to successes. The Du’a of mother causes mercy to descend. The Du’a of mother is a source of forgiveness of sins. By the blessing of the Du’a of mother, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes troubles and trials from children. Let’s have the privilege to listen to a few faith-refreshing parables about the blessings of mother’s Du’as.

Effect of mother’s Du’a

Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman Bin Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I heard my father saying that once an elderly woman came to Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Makhlad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said: My young son has been imprisoned by Romans. I have a small house, other than that I have no other possessions; I cannot sell it off. Therefore you ask any wealthy person to free my son by paying Fidya (ransom) because now I am spending restless days and sleepless nights. Consoling her, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I am trying to solve your problem. The narrator said: When the elderly woman left, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sat lowering his head and his blessed lips were moving (as if he had been reciting something). After a few days, the same elderly woman came to him with her young son and making Du’as for him started saying: (اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ) My son has come back safely and he will also state his account of journey to you.

The son (came and) said: With a group of prisoners I was in prison of the Roman king who had many orchards. He would send us every day to work in his orchards and (in the evening) put us back in the prison. One day, when after Maghrib we were going back to the prison after working (in the orchards), suddenly the strong chains tied around my feet broke themselves and fell onto the ground.

(The narrator said that) The young man mentioned the same time and the same day [when the chains broke] on which the elderly woman came to Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Makhlad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for Du’a. The soldiers asked me (the son of the elderly woman): Did you break the chains? I replied: No! They fell onto the ground from my feet after being broke themselves. Having heard the young man, the soldiers became very surprised. They went to their officer and mentioned it to him. He also became surprised. He then immediately called a blacksmith and said: Tie this young man tightly with chains. The blacksmith tied chains tightly around me. I had just gone a few steps; the chains again broke and fell from my feet onto the ground.

At this, everyone became quite surprised. They called their monks (religious guides) and informed them about the whole situation. Having heard all the conversation, the monks asked me: Is your mother alive? I replied in the affirmative. After hearing me the monk turned to them and said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has answered to his mother’s Du’a. The soldiers said: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has freed you, how can we tie you tightly with chains? Saying this, the Romans released me and helped me join Muslims. (In this way, the young man was released by virtue of the Du’a of his mother and blessing of Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Makhlad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .) (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 166)

دُعائے ولی میں وہ تاثیر دیکھی

بدلتی ہزاروں کی تقدیر دیکھی

ماں کی دُعا میں یہ تاثیر دیکھی۔۔۔

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! How effective Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the Du’as of a mother. When she makes Du’a for her children, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows acceptance due to her raised hands and answers to her Du’as for her children. Even by virtue of the blessing of the heartfelt Du’as of mother, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes troubles and trials from children. So fortunate are the people whose parents are alive and are happy with them. What a great fortune those children possess, who help their parents and get eligible of their Du’as by looking after them and become deserving of the Divine pleasure. Therefore if we want the Pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and our parents make Du’as for us, we should give

importance to our parents, remember their favours, avoid the things which are against their mood, look after them in every way, treat them well, fulfil their permissible needs, obey every permissible order of theirs, especially when they have grown old. In the old age, they need more sympathies from their children because their body parts do not work properly; body suffers from diseases; and even relatives become strangers. The old age of parents puts a person to the test. Most of the time, in the old age, they develop several diseases related to defecation and passing of urine, due to which usually their children get sick of them.

But remember! It is a must for children to look after their parents even under these conditions. In childhood, the mother also looks after children and keeps them clean when they wet (their bed) and defecate. Therefore, even if they get extremely irritable and quarrelsome due to their old age and diseases, children still have to be patient, patient and nothing but patient, treating them with respect is necessary. Yes! This is the very test. They should not even say ‘ uff ’ to them, let alone being rude to them and shouting at them or else they may suffer a great loss and be destroyed in the world and in the Hereafter both. The one who hurts the feelings of his parents is humiliated and disgraced in the world and also deserves torment of the Hereafter.

Consequence of the one who speaks ill of parents

Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hajar Makki Shafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘On the night of Mi’raj, I saw some people who were hanging on the branches of fire. So I asked, ‘O Jibrael, who are these people?’ He humbly replied, ‘These are the people who used to speak ill of their fathers and mothers in the world.’ (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabair, vol. 2, pp. 139)

Grave breaks ribs

It is narrated, ‘When the one, who disobeys his parents, is buried, the grave presses him to the extent that his ribs penetrate into each other (after breaking). (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabair, vol. 2, pp. 140)

دِل دُکھانا چھوڑ دیں ماں باپ کا ورنہ ہے اِس میں خَسارہ آپ کا

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The status and dignity of parents are very high and elevated. It can be judged by the fact that in the Holy Quran where Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded us to worship Him, at the same place, He has also commanded us to be good to parents and do favours to them. In Ayah 23 & 24 of Surah Bani Israel, part 15 it is stated:

وَ قَضٰى رَبُّكَ اَلَّا تَعْبُدُوْۤا اِلَّاۤ اِیَّاهُ وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًاؕ-اِمَّا یَبْلُغَنَّ عِنْدَكَ الْكِبَرَ اَحَدُهُمَاۤ اَوْ كِلٰهُمَا فَلَا تَقُلْ لَّهُمَاۤ اُفٍّ وَّ لَا تَنْهَرْهُمَا وَ قُلْ لَّهُمَا قَوْلًا كَرِیْمًا(۲۳) وَ اخْفِضْ لَهُمَا جَنَاحَ الذُّلِّ مِنَ الرَّحْمَةِ وَ قُلْ رَّبِّ ارْحَمْهُمَا كَمَا رَبَّیٰنِیْ صَغِیْرًاؕ(۲۴)

And your Lord has ordained that you do not worship anyone except Him, and treat your parents with kindness; if either of them or both reach old age in your presence, do not say ‘Uff’* to them and do not rebuff them, and speak to them with the utmost respect. (* Any expression of disgust) And lower your wing humbly for them, with mercy, and pray, ‘My Lord! Have mercy on them both, the way they nursed me when I was young.’

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 23 -24)

Regarding the abovementioned blessed Ayah, Allamah Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Naeemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When parents become very weak and their body parts no longer remain strong, they become as weak in their old age with you as you were with them in your childhood, do not say anything that indicates that you are considering them to be a burden on you. Neither scold them nor speak aloud to them, but rather talk to them in an extremely polite manner as a slave and servant do to his master. Treat them gently and politely and behave towards them in a loving and affectionate manner in their hard times because they brought you

up with love when you were very weak. Further, do not become stingy in spending for the thing they need. This means that no one can fulfil the rights of the favours of parents, regardless of how great a person treats and looks after them in the world. Therefore a bondman should make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to have grace and mercy on them and should humbly say: O my Lord! My act of looking after [my parents] cannot be the return for their favours; You have mercy on them so that it can be the return for their favours.

Regarding Ayah 83 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 1 he (Allamah Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Naeemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) says: ‘The ways of doing favours to parents, which have been narrated, are as follows: (1) One should love them from the bottom of his heart (2) He must respect them while conversing and spending time with them (3) He should use respectful words for them (4) He should try to please them (5) He should not conceal his excellent (wealth/belongings) from them (6) He should act upon their wills after their death (7) He should make Isal-e-Sawab for them by Fatihah, Sadaqat and recitation of the Holy Quran (8) He should make Du’a of forgiveness for them from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (9) He should visit their graves every week (10) It is also included in doing good to parents that if they are habitual of committing sins or have any corrupt beliefs, their children should try to reform them, persuade them towards piety, correct their corrupt beliefs with extreme politeness. In short, if someone serves his parents throughout his life, even then it is not possible for him return their favours. (Khazain-ul-Irfan, Parah 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah 83)

بڑے بھائی بہن کا میں کہا مانا کروں ہردم کروں ماں باپ کی دِن رات خدمت یارسولَ اللہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way we have been persuaded to respect and revere parents in the Holy Quran, similarly, we have been commanded to obey parents at many places in blessed Ahadees and their glory and greatness have also been stated. Let’s listen to four sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for persuasion:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When a person looks at his parents mercifully, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes for him the reward of Hajj Mabroor (accepted Hajj) for every (such) look.’ Blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked, ‘Even if someone looks at them hundred times a day!’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ﴿ نَعَمۡ ، اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ وَ اَطۡيَبُ﴾ i.e. Yes, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the Greatest and the Purest . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 186, Hadees 7856) That is, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is All-Powerful. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ can bestow as much reward as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is absolutely beyond all limitations and bindings. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, Part. 3, pp. 554)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Two doors of Paradise are opened for the one who spends his morning obeying his parents, and if only one parent [is alive], then one door opens. And two doors of Hell are opened for the one who spends his morning disobeying his parents and if only one parent [is alive], then one door opens. A person humbly asked, وَاِنْ ظَلَمَاهُ ؟ ‘Even if they oppress him’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Even if they oppress, even if they oppress, even if they oppress.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 206, Hadees 7916)

3. A person humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم! What are the rights of parents upon their children?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, هُمَا جَنَّتُكَ وَنَارُكَ i.e. ‘They are your Paradise and your Hell.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-ul-Adab, vol. 4, pp. 186, Raqm 3662)

4. A person came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Who is the most deserving of my good service? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Your mother’. He again humbly asked: ‘Who is after her?’ It was replied: ‘Your mother’. He humbly asked again: ‘Who is after her?’ This time the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also replied the same: ‘Your mother’. He again humbly asked: ‘Who is after her?’ Then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Your father’. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Adab, vol. 4, pp. 93, Hadees 5971)

مُطِیْع اپنے ماں باپ کا کر میں اُنکا ہر ایک حکم لاؤں بجا یااِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, it has become obvious that the status of parents is extremely high and elevated. If we keep them happy, our world and Hereafter both will get better, whereas to displease them is an act leading to Hell. It has also been understood that no matter if parents oppress, even then it is a must for children to obey them. For example, if parents are displeased with us, scold us, or kick us out of home after becoming upset, we should reproach our conscience instead of declaring our parents guilty, by thinking that we might have made some mistakes. If I had kept them happy and become their slave, I would not have to face this day today because parents are very kind to their children. Why will they treat me like this? Therefore the people whose parents are alive should contemplate: Do we fulfil the rights of our parents? Are our parents happy with us? Do we speak softly to them? Do we obey every permissible order of theirs? Do we quarrel with them? Do we talk rudely to them? Do we consider it to be a burden to look after them? Do we frown when doing their work? Do we give them an angry look when they scold us? Do we make excuses when they ask for money? Do our mother feel delight when she sees us? Do we respect our mother? Do we request our mother to make Du’as for us?

Remember! The Du’a of mother is answered very quickly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The Du’a of a mother is answered quickly (in her children’s favour)’. It was humbly asked: ‘Why is it so?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘A mother is more kind than a father and the Du’a for mercy is not rejected. (Tabaqaat-us-Shafiyah, vol. 6, pp. 317)

Let’s listen to some parables about the blessings of the Du’as of a mother and make intentions to perform the deeds which will cause our mother to make Du’as for us:

Companion in Paradise

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has stated his booklet ‘Oceanic Dome’: Once Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly requested in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘O the most Forgiving! Show me the person who will be my companion in Paradise .’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘Go to such and such city. You will find there so and so meat trader who is your companion in Paradise.’ Therefore, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام went to the city to meet the meat trader. (Despite not knowing him, considering him to be a traveller and a guest), the meat trader invited Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . When both of them sat down to eat, he placed a very big basket beside him. He would eat one morsel himself and put two into the basket. In the meantime someone knocked on the door. The meat trader stood up and went out. Meanwhile, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام looked in the basket and found an elderly man and woman inside. As soon as they looked at Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, a smile spread across their faces. They testified the Risalat [Prophethood] of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and passed away immediately.

When the meat trader came back and looked at his deceased parents in the basket, he understood the whole matter. Then, kissing the hands of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام he humbly said: ‘It seems that you are the Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah (عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام).’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام asked: ‘How did you judge it?’ He replied: ‘My parents would make the following Du’a beseechingly every day: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Bless us with the death while we are beholding Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . Due to their sudden death, I judged that you must be Sayyiduna Musa (عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام).’

The meat trader humbly said further: ‘When my mother ate food, she would get delighted and make the following Du’a for me. O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Make my son the companion of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام in Paradise.’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘Congratulations! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made you my companion in Paradise.’ (Samundari Gumbad, pp. 7)

پڑوسی بنا مجھ کو جنّت میں اُن کا خدائے محمد برائے مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Ateeq’ by virtue of mother’s Du’a:

One reason why Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was called ‘Ateeq’ has been stated that no child of her mother would remain alive. When he was born, she took him to Baytullah Sharif and made the following Du’a beseechingly: ‘O my Lord! If this son of mine is free from death, bestow him upon me’. Afterwards he was called ‘Ateeq’. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 22)

Respect for mother

Sayyiduna Bayazid Bistami قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّهُ الـسَّـامِی has said: ‘During a very cold night, my mother asked me for [a glass of] water. I went to bring a glass of water, but she had fallen asleep when I came. I did not feel it appropriate to wake her up. Therefore, I stood near her holding the glass of water, waiting for her to wake up so that I could present it to her. I stood for a long time. Meantime, some water spilled over my finger and froze, turning into ice. When my respected mother woke up, I presented her the glass of water. My finger had stuck to the glass because of the ice. As I detached my finger from the glass, its skin came off, causing bleeding. Seeing it, my mother asked, ‘What is this?’ I told her the whole story. Listening to it, she raised her hands and made Du’a: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I am pleased with him. You also be pleased with him.’ (Samundari Gumbad, pp. 4)

Great mother

The great mother of Muhaddis-e-A’zam Pakistan Allamah Maulana Sardar Ahmad Qaadiri Chishti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would quite often say: اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this beloved child of mine will become a great personality and she would make this Du’a as well: ‘Your name is Sardar (Chief); May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make you the Sardar of Deen and the world’; and the world saw that the Du’a of the

mother was really answered for the great son and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him Sardar. (Hayat-e-Muhaddis-e-A’zam, pp. 30)

پِیر و مُرشِد پر مِرے ماں باپ پر ہو سدا رَحمت اے نانائے حُسَیْن

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! When a mother makes Du’a for her child, how its blessed effects appear that not only a meat trader became Jannati by virtue of his mother’s Du’a, but he was also blessed with the good news of becoming the neighbour of a Nabi in Paradise, whereas by virtue of the Du’a of his mother, Muhaddis-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was given the Sardari (leadership) of Deen and the world as well. It has also been learnt that our pious predecessors would get Du’as of their mothers after keeping them happy by looking after them. Therefore following in the footsteps of these Allah-loving people, we should also get ready to look after our mother so that we also become the apple of our mother’s eye and she feel pleased with us and make Du’as for us that O my Lord! Make my child Hafiz of Quran, Qari of Quran, preacher of Dawat-e-Islami, a practising Islamic scholar and a Mufti of Dawat-e-Islami; bless him with the success in both the worlds; make him enter Paradise without any accountability; be pleased with him forever, etc.! Let’s all make intention that we will continue to look after our parents; we will not disobey them; we will not speak rudely to them; we will lower our voice and gaze before them; we will be patient upon their harsh sentences and the things they do contrary to our mood; we will fulfil their needs; we will look after them in a better way as per our financial ability; we will take care of their likes and dislikes; we will help them in their suffering and trouble; we will not disturb them when they are taking a rest; we will try to bring round our angry parents; we will do good to them regarding their food, living, medicines and other things; we will obey every permissible order of theirs. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, it is a must for children to obey their parents. However, if parents order them to do anything contrary to Shariyya, such as

get your beard shaved, etc., so in this case, Shari’ah has forbidden to obey their order because it is not permissible to obey the creation by disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Unfortunately, due to a lack of Islamic knowledge there are a number of such unwise people who instead of sacrificing their joy for the sake of their parents’ joy, fulfil their Nafsaani [carnal] desire by deceiving their parents. Where we want, we forcefully try to convince our parents by hook or by crook. For example, if children grow up and there is a delay in their marriage due to any reason, so sometimes these unwise children make complaint of their parents in front of others by saying: Look, now this is the age of my marriage; this is the age to see the glories of youth; if my marriage does not take place even now, then will it take place in my old age? My parents do not worry about me; who will make them understand!!!

Some say! I have to marry only in that family. What do my parents know? I will do only what I want. My parents do not know what I know.

Some say! My friend has an expensive mobile phone, whereas I have a simple mobile phone. Don’t I have any right to live in this age?

Some say! The students of my school/college go to different places of entertainment for fun; they move about freely, but my father does think about me. I also have feelings. Should I be imprisoned in my home?

Some say! Those who spend time with me have very elegant dresses/clothes. I feel ashamed to spend time with such people due to my simple dress/clothes.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the success in understanding the feelings of our parents! Just ponder, who are the parents that do not want to see the joy of their children? Parents always think better for their children. They want to do many things for their beloved children, but sometimes their circumstances do not allow them. Someone’s old father is still working for his wages to run his home instead of resting. His mother, who is suffering from many diseases,

cannot afford all the medicines, but rather she sacrifices her rest and sews clothes late night to support his father so that the home can be run.

Dear Islamic brothers! What has happened to us? Which direction have we headed? The misuse of social media has made us so powerless that our thought has completely changed. We have almost lost the dignity and status of our parents. We should refrain from such friendship and company which keep us away from our parents and tempt us to perform evil acts in the society. For the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, come to your senses!

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of the meat trader who will be the companion of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم in Paradise, grant us blessings!

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of Sayyiduna Siddiqu-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ make us the obedient to our parents!

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of Sayyiduna Bayazeed Bastami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه make us the one who really looks after his parents!

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of Muhadis-e-Azam Pakistan Maulana Sardar Ahmad Qadiri Chishti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه make us the one who always gets the Du’as of parents!

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want to make our parents happy and it is hoped that everyone wants this, so we should have the company in which the respect and reverence for parents are taught. In this critical age, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami [the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool] is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May I be sacrificed upon the great pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami! His Madani teaching has brought such a reformation in the Madani lives of hundreds of thousands of people who would cause trouble to their parents. Such fortunate people now comfort their parents. There would be a number of people due to whose mischiefs or evil acts their parents were very upset, but

now they are very relaxed by virtue of the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Let’s act upon Madani Inama’at and travel with Madani Qafilas. We will understand as to how the Du’as of parents are obtained. Not only attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima and Madani Muzakras yourself, but also persuade your friends and relatives to attend them. You will then understand as to how the Du’as of parents are obtained after making them happy. Present yourself for ‘Madani visits’; get ready all the time for virtuous deeds.

If parents quarrel with each other, what should children do?

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If there is a quarrel between parents, children should neither support the mother nor the father. They should not treat their father harshly out of their mother’s love. Hurting the feelings of the father, answering him back and talking to him rudely with disrespect are all Haraam acts as well as disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is not permissible at all for children to support either their mother or father in this way. Both of them are his Paradise and Hell. If he causes trouble to any of them, he will deserve Hell, وَالۡعِيَاذُ بِاللّٰه (We seek protection of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). No one can be obeyed by disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

For example, if a mother wants her son to cause a trouble to his father, but he does not do so, i.e. he refuses to treat his father cruelly, and his mother gets displeased with him because of his refusal, then he should let her get displeased and should not listen to her at all in this matter. The same ruling will apply if his father asks him to treat his mother cruelly. Islamic scholars have elaborated that priority should be given to the mother when it comes to looking after [parents], and preference should be given to the father when it comes to respecting them because he has authority and power even over his mother. (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 390)

If parents order to shave beard, do not obey

(Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said:) It has become evident that we should not obey our parents if they order us to do something impermissible. You will become a sinner if you obey them in impermissible matters. For example, if parents ask us to tell a lie or shave the beard off or keep it less than a fist-length, we should not listen to them at all, no matter how much they get displeased. We will not be considered to be disobedient. However, if we obey them in such a matter, we will definitely be considered to be disobedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Similarly, if parents get divorced and the mother tries to prevent children from meeting the father, children must not obey this order of the mother, no matter how much she cries and warns that I will not forgive you at all. Not only will children have to meet the father, but they will also have to look after him. Even though parents are separated but the relationship with children is not cut-off. Both of them still have the same rights over their children. (Samundari Gumbad, pp. 21)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Chowk Dars’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to have the awareness of the importance of parents, increase the passion for looking after them, become deserving of their Du’as and know the ways to keep them happy. Participate actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of them is ‘Chowk Dars’ (Dars at a busy place) daily. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Chowk Dars is a source of protecting Muslims from evils. Chowk Dars makes Muslims, who do not offer Salah, Salah-offering. Chowk Dars brings the people closer to Masjids who are away from Masjids. By virtue of the blessing of Chowk Dars one desires to perform virtuous deeds. By virtue of the blessing of Chowk Dars Madani activities are performed abundantly in the area. Chowk Dars not only makes our mind to offer Salah regularly, but it is

also a great source of gaining and teaching plenty of Islamic knowledge and conveying Islamic knowledge to people is an act of reward.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever conveys any Islamic knowledge to my Ummah so that Sunnah is revived or corrupt belief is removed, is a Jannati.’ (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 10 pp. 45, Hadees 14466)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Chowk Dars for persuasion.

Reformed by virtue of Chowk Dars’ blessing

One Islamic brother from the Lines Area of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi stated: ‘I was standing on the roof of my house when I saw an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami, with a green ‘Imamah on his head, giving Chowk Dars all alone by the street corner. No one was sitting there to listen to him. Even though I was away from religion and would avoid Islamic brothers who wore green ‘Imamahs. When I saw that brother giving Dars all alone, I felt bad. I went down and attended his Dars in sympathy. Attending that Dars became a source of my reformation and I associated myself with the Madani environment. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ at present, I am a Zimmahdar (responsible Islamic brother) of Madani In’amaat in my area. There was a time when I used to run away from people wearing green ‘Imamahs and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today the crown of the green Imamah is shining on my head’.

بُری صحبتوں سے کنارہ کشی کر اور اچھوں کے پاس آ کے پا مدنی ماحول

تمہیں لطف آجائے گا زندگی کا قریب آ کے دیکھو ذرا مدنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way the Du’a of mother is answered for her children, similarly, her curse is also answered. Hence we should not do anything at all that causes any kind of trouble to our mother due to which she curses us. How unwise are the people who perform deeds that result in

the curse from their mothers! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If they make bad Du’a for their children after being displeased, the children will be destined to disrespect and disgrace. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable about it and learn a lesson.

Leg cut due to mother’s curse

On page 441 of his book, ‘Nayki ki Dawat’, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Allamah Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has mentioned that ‘Allamah Kamaaluddin Dameeri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه narrated: One leg of Zamakhshari (who was a scholar of the Mu’tazili sect) was cut off. When asked by people about it, he disclosed that it was the consequence of the curse of his mother. Going into details, he said: ‘In my childhood, I once caught a sparrow and tied a string to its leg. Coincidentally, it flew away from my hand and entered an opening of a wall, but the string remained hanging out. Holding the string, I pulled it hard, and the sparrow came out of the opening writhing in severe pain. The leg of the poor sparrow had been cut. Noticing this painful scene, my mother became very grieved and cursed me with these words, ‘May your leg get cut as you have cut the leg of this bird that cannot express its suffering.’ The matter was then ignored. After some time, I travelled to ‘Bukhara’ to gain knowledge. On the way, I fell down from my conveyance receiving a severe injury to my leg. Having reached Bukhara, I underwent treatments but nothing relieved the pain. Eventually, my leg was cut off’. (This way, the curse of the mother produced its effect). (Hayat-ul-Haywan-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 163)

دل دُکھانا چھوڑ دیں ماں باپ کا ورنہ ہے اِس میں خسارہ آپ کا

The above-mentioned parable not only contain Madani pearls of admonition for those who hurt animals and parents, it also has something for the parents to ponder over, especially for the mothers who curse their children on trivial matters by producing such utterances: May you be destroyed, may you be burst, may you suffer from leprosy, etc. They should control their tongue, lest their curse is heard provided that it is the very time of accepting Du’as and something bad happens to their children in reality. In this way, the mother herself will become worried. Therefore it is more appropriate to only make

Du’a for well-being of children. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to keep our parents happy and get their Du’as! Ameen …

Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat [Islamic sisters]):

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Not only Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, has established different departments in order to make the mind of Islamic brothers to obey their parents, it has also established many departments for Islamic sisters so that they can also become the apples of their parents’ eyes. One of them is ‘Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) approximately 265 Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) have been established at home and abroad. In these Jami’aat, approximately 16,217 female students are receiving free education of Dars-e-Nizami (Alimah Course). Approximately 3,600 Islamic sisters have completed Dars-e-Nizami (Alimah Course), whereas approximately 414 Islamic sisters have completed ‘Faizan-e-Shari’at Course’.

Hundreds of Islamic sisters are serving Islam in administration and teaching in Jamia tul Madinah (for Islamic sisters). Thousands of Islamic sisters are performing eight Madani activities by carrying out different responsibilities and are propagating the call towards righteousness. Let’s get the Islamic sisters of our family enrolled in Jamia tul Madinah (for Islamic sisters) and make them the continuous source of reward for us.

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تِری دُھوم مچی ہو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard that

1- By looking at parents mercifully one gets the Sawab of accepted Hajj.

2-One who disobeys his parents, falls into disgrace in the world and the Hereafter.

3-Two doors of Hell open for the one who spends his morning disobeying his parents.

4-Mother’s Du’a helps to get rid of troubles and difficulties.

5-Mother’s Du’a makes a person deserving of Paradise.

6-Mother sacrifices her wishes for the sake of her children.

7-One who obeys his mother will be with pious people in Paradise.

8-The curse of mother disgraces and humiliates a person in the world and the Hereafter both.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable all the Muslims to obey their parents, keep them happy, make Du’as for them, obey every permissible order of theirs and get their Dua’s!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Salam

1-It is Sunnah to say Salam when meeting a Muslim.

2-Ninety mercies descend upon the one who takes the lead in Salam and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

3-One receives 10 virtues for saying (اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمْ), 20 virtues if (وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ) is further added, 30 if (وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ) is also added.

4-The person who takes the lead in saying Salam is free from arrogance.

5-The person one who takes the lead in saying Salam is close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

6-The best words of Salam are (اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ) i.e., may peace be upon you, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

7-The best words for the reply to Salam are as follows (وَعَلَیْـکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ) i.e., and may peace be upon you too, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

8-It is Wajib [obligatory] to reply to Salam immediately in a voice audible to the one who greeted you with Salam.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭…٭…٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

