اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Why the 12th Rabi’-ul-Awwal is cherished by all

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat 100 times upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and hellfire, and will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement .’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

کیوں کہوں بیکس ہوں میں، کیوں کہوں بے بس ہوں میں

تُم ہو میں تُم پر فِدا، تُم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Before the speech, let’s chant slogans of ‘Marhaba Ya Mustafa’, given to us by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, by waving Madani flags if possible, with great passion and enthusiasm, love and devotion.

سَرکار کی آمد…مَرحبا…سَردار کی آمد …مَرحبا …آمِنہ کے پُھول کی آمد … مَرحبا…رَسولِ مَقبول کی آمد …مَرحبا…پیارے کی آمد …مَرحبا…اچھے کی آمد …مَرحبا…سچے کی آمد …مَرحبا…سوہنے کی آمد…مَرحبا…موہنے کی آمد…مَرحبا… مُختار کی آمد…مَرحبا! مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Celebration on shifting Noor of Mustafa

Allamah Shu’aib Harefeesh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ shifted Noor-e-Muhammadi to the blessed womb of Sayyidatuna Aminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, then great signs started to reveal. All the creation started giving good news to each other; announcement was made on the earth and in the sky: O ‘Arsh! Become serious. O Kursi! Feel proud. O Sidra-tul-Muntaha! Rejoice. O luminosities of awe and grandeur! You also become fairly bright. O Paradise! Get extremely decorated. O the Hurs [heavenly brides] of palaces! You also see from the height. O Rizwan (Gardener of Paradise)! Open the doors of Paradise and adorn the Hurs and Gilmaan (male servants) and make the universe fragrant with their fragrance. O Malik (Darogah [Custodian] of Hell)! Close the doors of Hell because tonight the Noor and secret, which are hidden in My treasures, are about to shift to Aminah from Abdullah, and the moment this Noor shifts, its birth will complete and this Noor will appear as a perfect human in front of people. (Al-Raud-ul-Faiq, pp. 242)

ترے خُلق کو حق نے عظیم کہا، تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہُوا ہے نہ ہوگا، شہا تِرے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Explanation of the couplet: O my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has declared your blessed manners to be the exalted and sublime ones, and your blessed birth has brought about thousands of blessings and fortune. No one has ever been blessed with such a beautiful and outstanding birth. O my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Well, who else can be like you? Of course! By the One Who has created the earth and the sky, ‘No one is like you.’

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 226)

Every four-footed animal started speaking!

Noor-e-Muhammadi shifted on the 1 st Rajab Al-Murajjab, Friday night, whereas according to Sayyiduna Imam Waqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it was the 15 th night of Jumadal-Ukhra when Noor entered every house and home. Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: This night, every four-footed animal of Quraysh said (eloquently): The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has blessed the womb of his mother by his blessed appearance. By Rab of Ka’bah! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a protection for the world and light for the people of the world.

(Al-Raud-ul-Faiq, pp. 242)

نِثار تیری چہل پہل پر ہزار عِیدیں رَبِیْعُ الْاَوَّل سِوائے اِبْلِیس کے جہاں میں سَبھی تو خوشیا ں مَنا رہے ہیں

زمانہ بھر میں یہ قاعِدہ ہے کہ جس کا کھانا اُسی کا گانا تو نعمتیں جِن کی کھا رہے ہیں اُنہیں کے ہم گیت گا رہے ہیں

سَرکار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَردار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَالار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مُختار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ غمخوار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ تاجدار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ شاندار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Rabi-ul-Awwal is the great and blessed month in the Islamic calendar. Every Muslim knows its importance and significance. When the sacred month of Rabi-ul-Noor begins, it brings great joy to people everywhere. The devotees of Rasool are filled with joy and happiness,

whether they are old or young. In fact, every real Muslim speaks from the bottom of his heart:

نُور والا آیا ہے ہاں نُور لیکر آیا ہے سارے عالَم میں یہ دیکھو نُور کیسا چھایا ہے

چار جانِب روشنی ہے سب سَماں ہے نُور نُور حَق نے پیدا آج اپنے پیارے کو فَرمایا ہے

آؤ آؤ نُور کی خَیرات لینے کو چلیں نُور والا آمِنہ بی بی کے گھر میں آیا ہے

جُوں ہی آمد ماہِ مِیْلادِ مُبارَک کی ہُوئی اَہلِ اِیماں جُھوم اُٹھے شَیْطاں کو غُصّہ آیا ہے

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! a large number of devotees of Rasool hold and attend the Ijtima’at of Zikr and Naat in the month of Milaad, especially in the first 12 days, out of joy for celebrating the Milaad-e-Mustafa. They illuminate homes, shops, factories, vehicles, markets, streets and neighbourhoods with green flags and decorative electrical bulbs. They take out processions of Milaad with green flags in hands, chanting slogans ‘Marhaba Ya Mustafa’ and reciting Salat Alan Nabi. They also distribute booklets and Langer-e-Milaad generously. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ book, ’Faizan-e-Sunnat’, in order to attain the spiritual blessings of the blessed days of this blessed month of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Blessing in sweets of celebrating blessed birth

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has stated: In Moradabad, Hind [India], a devotee of Rasool would enthusiastically celebrate the blessed birth [of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] and would also hold a marvellous Milaad-gathering every year. Sadr-ul-Afadil ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْـهِ رَحۡـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی, a spiritual successor [Khalifah] of Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن would especially attend it.

Once, the attendants were far more than expected. In the end, like every year, when the distribution of traditional Indian laddus [1] [sweets weighing approx. 250 grams each] started, it seemed that they would only suffice half

of the people. The anxious host informed the Sadr-ul-Afadil رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه of the situation. Taking out his handkerchief from his pocket, the Shaykh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه handed it to the host, and said, ‘Put it over the dish of the laddus and distribute them from under the handkerchief without looking at them.’ Therefore, the sweets were distributed as per his instruction (and sufficed for all the attendees). At the end, when the handkerchief was removed, the quantity of sweets was the same as was before the distribution. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 355)

عِیدِ مِیْلادُ النَّبِی ہے دِل بڑا مَسْرُور ہے ہر طرف ہے شادمانی رَنج و غَم کافُور ہے

جَشنِ مِیْلادُ النَّبِی ہے کیوں نہ جُھومیں آج ہم مُسکراتی ہیں بہاریں سب فَضا پُر نُور ہے

آمِنہ تجھ کو مُبارَک شاہ کا مِیْلاد ہو تیرا آنگن نُور،تیرا گھر کا گھر سب نُور ہے

سَرکار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَردار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سالار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مُختار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ غمخوار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ تاجدار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ شاندار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable, we have attained a few Madani pearls. For example, the caliph of A’la Hadrat Allamah Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a miraculous saint. By virtue of his saintly miracle, there was so much blessing in the Laddus of blessed Milaad (Birth) that despite laddus being distributed to all the attendees, they did not reduce and remained the same as were before putting the handkerchief over them. On the occasions of Milaad gatherings or ‘Urs of pious predecessors, it is not necessary to do Langer with biryani or qaurma, etc. If someone distributes Langer of Luddoo, balo shahi (a type of sweet) or something like this, he will also attain the blessings of Milaad. To celebrate the blessed Milaad and to distribute Tabarruk (sweets or something) on this occasion are not bad or something new, but it has always been the practice of Muslims.

The commentator of Bukhari, Hadrat Sayyiduna Imam Qastallani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Muslims always hold gatherings, cook food happily, invite one another, give in charity all sorts and kinds of things in these nights (of Rabi-ul-Awwal) and feel joy in the month of the Beloved Rasool‘s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم birth. (Mawahib Li-Dunya, vol. 1, pp. 148)

کیوں بارہویں پہ ہے سبھی کو پیار آگیا آیا اِسی دن اَحمدِ مُختار آگیا

گھر آمِنہ کے سَیّدِ اَبرار آگیا خوشیاں مَناؤ غَمزدو غمخوار آگیا

سَرکار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَردار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَالار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مُختار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ غمخوار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ تاجدار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ شاندار کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to book, ‘Seerat-e-Mustafa’

Dear Islamic brothers! By listening and reading about the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, especially about the events of his blessed birth, we attain peace of the heart and satisfaction. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is making efforts to celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all over the world. It is also making efforts all the time to benefit the Muslim Ummah with different aspects of the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed life and character and with his marvellous blessed sayings.

So for the same purpose, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a department of Dawat-e- Islami, has published a book, ‘Seerat-e-Mustafa’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains information about the blessed habits and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, blessed events of his childhood, interesting information about Ghazwaat (Islamic battles in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

himself participated) and faith-refreshing parables, information about migration to Madinah Munawwarah from Makkah Mukarramah, different styles of Makki and Madani life and different miracles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم etc . Therefore, buy this book today from the stalls of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Study it yourself and also persuade others to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in this world as Allah’s عَزَّوَجَلَّ Grace and Mercy; and certainly the day when the Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ descends, it is a joyful day.

In Ayah 58 of Surah Yunus, Part 11 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

قُلْ بِفَضْلِ اللّٰهِ وَ بِرَحْمَتِهٖ فَبِذٰلِكَ فَلْیَفْرَحُوْاؕ-هُوَ خَیْرٌ مِّمَّا یَجْمَعُوْنَ(۵۸)

Say, “Upon Allah’s munificence and upon His mercy - upon these should the people rejoice”; that is better than all their wealth and possessions

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 11, Surah Al-Yunus, Ayah 58)

It is stated about the above-mentioned blessed Ayah in ‘Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan’ the published book of Maktaba tul Madinah: The pleasure one gains upon getting a beautiful and loving thing is called ‘ فَرِحٌ ’, and the meaning of the blessed Ayah is that the believers should be happy upon the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as He has blessed them with comfort and peace of the heart along with pieces of advice, cleansing of hearts and bestowed them with faith.

What does Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’s grace and mercy mean?

What does Allah’s عَزَّوَجَلَّ grace and mercy mean in this blessed Ayah? Exegetists have stated different opinions about it. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, Sayyiduna Hassan and Sayyiduna Qattada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا have said that the meaning of Allah‘s عَزَّوَجَلَّ grace is Islam and His mercy means the Holy Quran. At another place it is stated that Allah’s عَزَّوَجَلَّ grace refers to the Holy Quran and His mercy refers to Ahadees. Whereas some Islamic scholars have stated that Allah’s عَزَّوَجَلَّ grace is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and His mercy is the Holy Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ كَانَ فَضْلُ اللّٰهِ عَلَیْكَ عَظِیْمًا(۱۱۳)

and upon you is Allah’s great munificence

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 5, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 113)

Some have stated: The grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Quran and mercy is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ مَاۤ اَرْسَلْنٰكَ اِلَّا رَحْمَةً لِّلْعٰلَمِیْنَ(۱۰۷)

And We did not send you except as a mercy for the entire world

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 17, Surah An-Anbiya, Ayah 107)

And if, for instance, in this blessed Ayah, grace and mercy do not especially refer to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then it is stated separately that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is certainly the greatest grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore one should feel happy about the blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم either by holding a Milaad gathering or celebrating blessed Mai’raj. However, if someone does not feel delight or rejoice on this occasion, he is unfortunate and he is different from us, so he should think about his faith. (Sirat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 340)

جب تلک یہ چاند تارے جِھلْملاتے جائیں گے تَب تلک جشنِ وِلادَت ہم مَناتے جائیں گے

اُن کے عاشِق نُور کی شَمعیں جَلاتے جائیں گے جبکہ حاسِد دِل جلاتے سٹپٹاتے جائیں گے

لاکھ شَیْطاں ہم کو روکے فَضْلِ ربّ سے تا اَبَد جَشن، آقا کی وِلادَت کا مَناتے جائیں گے

اچھے کی آمد …مَرحبا…سچے کی آمد …مَرحبا…سوہنے کی آمد …مَرحبا…موہنے کی آمد …مَرحبا … مُختار کی آمد …مَرحبا! مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

His blessed self is the means of creation of the whole Universe!

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely whatever blessings we are receiving are all by virtue of the Sadaqah of the blessed existence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the life of the universe, or rather the existence of the universe is for the Sadaqah of the dust of the Beloved Rasool‘s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed feet. If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not arrived in this world, there would be no jinn, no human, no sun, no moon, no earth, no sky, no Jannah and Hell, no maidens of Paradise and Gilman (male servants attending the virtuous in Paradise), no Lawh’ and Qalam and no ‘Arsh and Kursi. In short! The universe has been created only for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O ‘Isa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)! Have faith in Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and order the people of your Ummah who will live in his era to believe in him. Because if there had not been the blessed personality of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), I would have neither created Adam nor Paradise and Hell’. When I made the ‘Arsh upon the water, it was shaking that time. I wrote ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ ’ on it, then it became steady. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 14)

وہ جو نہ تھے تو کچھ نہ تھا وہ جو نہ ہوں تو کچھ نہ ہو جان ہیں وہ جَہان کی جان ہے تو جہان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, on the occasion of Eid Milaad-un-Nabi, Muslims, all over the world, are extremely happy. Surely, it is appreciable and admirable because despite the conspiracies of enemies, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, every year the celebration of Milaad is increasing. Undoubtedly, all this is the result of Islamic scholars and pious saints’ great efforts that today, every Muslim praises the greatness and glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and celebrates his blessed birth with love and devotion. Just ponder, when these are the blessings of the teachings of such people, so how outstanding would be the manner of celebrating Eid Milaad-un-Nabi of these people! Let’s listen to something about Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ impressive and devotional manner of celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat‘s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ manner of celebrating Barween

Devotee of the month of Milaad, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has been practising the celebration of the blessed birth for many years in an extremely great manner within the boundaries of Shari’ah. As the moon of this sacred month is sighted, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ decorates his residence with green flags, bunting and colourful small electric bulbs. He recites Salat Alan Nabi abundantly and also persuades devotees of Rasool to celebrate the blessed birth with zeal and enthusiasm. He also holds Madani Muzakarahs consecutively for 12 days from the moon-sighting night to the night of 12 th Rabi-ul-Awwal. Taking advantage of his company, a large number of Islamic brothers ask questions about beliefs and deeds, virtues, Shari’at and Tareeqat, history and biography, science and medicine, ethics and Islamic information, economics, social and organizational affairs and many other topics, and Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ gives wisdom-filled logical answers enriched with devotion to Rasool. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ enables the

attendees, from time to time, to have the privilege of reciting Salat Alan Nabi by calling out loudly ‘ صَلُّوْا عَلَی الْحَبِیْب! ’.

Upon the arrival of the 12 th night, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ feels more delighted. On the 12 th night, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ especially takes bath (Ghusl), uses usually almost everything new of his use like Madani dress, green Imamah, topi, comb, Itr (fragrance), Miswak, writing-pad, pen, Madani chador (shawl), handkerchief, Sarband, slippers, etc. On the 12 th night, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ holds Madani Muzakarah and attends the Ijtima of Zikr and Naat, then recites Salat Alan Nabi together with a large number of devotees of Rasool at the end of the Ijtima. He then cheerfully and delightedly welcomes Subha Baharan [the blessed dawn] with tearful eyes in a very enthusiastic manner. Seeing his impressive style, many Islamic brothers start to weep and develop the devotion to Rasool. On the day of 12 th Rabi-ul-Awwal, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ also distributes ‘Eidi to devotees of Rasool out of the pleasure of Eid Milaad-un-Nabi. His enthusiasm filled with devotion and love out of the pleasure and delight for Milaad-e-Mustafa can be easily judged from his Naatiya collection ‘Wasa’il-e-Bakhshish’. In his Naatiya collection, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ expresses his feeling in his one of the last couplets of a Naat:

پُھولے نہیں سَماتے ہیں عطّارؔ آج تو دُنیا میں آج حامیِ عطّارؔ آگئے

سَرکار کی آمد…مَرحبا…سَردار کی آمد …مَرحبا…آمِنہ کے پھول کی آمد … مَرحبا…رَسُولِ مقبول کی آمد …مَرحبا…پیارے کی آمد …مَرحبا… مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے…مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے… مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

Madani In’amaat, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ act of celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with love and devotion is a clear proof that he, undoubtedly, is a true devotee of Rasool. If you also want to get the eternal wealth of devotion to Rasool and learn how to celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the

best way of it is to remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and participate happily and actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities is to fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat by performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily as per Madani In’amaat and then after filling it, submit it to the responsible Islamic brother of your area on the 1 st of every Madani month. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this great gift of Madani In’aam not only reminds us of the pious predecessors, but it is also the best source of making self-accountability by following their footsteps. Our pious predecessors’ manner of making self-accountability of their deeds was also very beautiful. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it.

Fikr-e-Madinah throughout the day

Sayyiduna Muhammad Waasi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: A person from Basra asked the wife of Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ about his worship after his demise. She replied, ‘He used to ponder the whole day (over the Hereafter) sitting in a corner of the home’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 162) . By virtue of the blessing of this grand Ijtima of Milaad, all the Islamic brothers should make the intention: From today onwards, we will also perform Fikr-e-Madinah or rather persuade other Islamic brothers to do so. For persuasion, listen to a Madani parable of performing Fikr-e-Madinah.

Reward of performing Fikr-e-Madina h daily

Here is a summary of the account given by an Islamic brother. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I love Madani In’amaat and perform Fikr-e-Madinah every day. Once, I travelled to Baluchistan (Pakistan) with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami [the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool] in the company of devotees of Rasool. In this Madani Qafilah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed me with Divine mercy. When I slept at night, fortune smiled at me and I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream. I was engulfed in his blessed visions, his blessed lips began to move, and I heard these blessed words, ‘I will take with me the ones to Paradise who perform Fikr-e-Madinah daily in the Madani Qafilah’.

مِرے تم خَواب میں آؤ مِرے گھر روشنی ہوگی مِری قسمت جگا جاؤ، عِنایت یہ بڑی ہوگی

مجھے گَر دِید ہوجائے،تو میری عِیْد ہوجائے تِرا دیدار جب ہوگا، مجھے حاصِل خوشی ہوگی

میں بَن جاؤں سَراپا ”مَدَنی اِنْعَامات“ کی تَصویر بَنُوں گا نیک یااللہ اگر رَحمت تِری ہوگی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Eid of Eids

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed day when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born is not less than the Eid for devotees of Rasool, but rather it is the Eid of Eids because on this day, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in this world as mercy. Sayyiduna Imam Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on the one who celebrates the nights of the month of blessed birth like Eid. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 148)

عِیدِ مِیْلَادُ النَّبِی تو عِید کی بھی عِید ہے بِالیقیں ہے عِیدِ عِیداں عِیدِ مِیْلَادُ النَّبِی

If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not arrived in this world, so surely no Eid would be Eid, nor would there be any night the night of Qadr or the night of Bara`at. We have been blessed with these Eids and sacred nights for the Sadaqah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, for attaining the blessing on this Eid of devotees of Rasool, we should celebrate the blessed birth with so much zeal and enthusiasm and delight that accursed Satan should run away in vain. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, rejoicing upon the bestowment of blessing and celebrating Eid on this day are such blessed acts for which we also get evidence from the Holy Quran.

قَالَ عِیْسَى ابْنُ مَرْیَمَ اللّٰهُمَّ رَبَّنَاۤ اَنْزِلْ عَلَیْنَا مَآىٕدَةً مِّنَ السَّمَآءِ تَكُوْنُ لَنَا عِیْدًا لِّاَوَّلِنَا وَ اٰخِرِنَا وَ اٰیَةً مِّنْكَۚ-

Eisa, the son of Maryam, said, “O Allah, O our Lord! Send down to us a table spread from heaven, so that it may become a day of celebration for us – for our former and latter people - and a sign from You

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part. 7, Surah Al-Mai’dah, Ayah 114)

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, it is stated in Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan: From this blessed Ayah, it has been understood that celebrating Eid, rejoicing, performing acts of worship, and expressing thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the day when His special mercy is revealed, are the ways of pious people. Surely, the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the greatest blessing and the most important mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore celebrating Eid on the blessed day of the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and expressing thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by holding blessed Milaad gatherings and feeling delight are all appreciable and the ways of chosen bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has stated: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in Madinah-tul-Munawwarah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw that non-Muslims observe sawm on the day of ‘Ashura. So he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘What is this?’ They humbly replied, ‘This is a great day because this day, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ saved Bani Israeel from their enemy. So Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام observed Sawm this day to thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘I have closer relation to Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام than you.’ So the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed Sawm on Ashura and ordered us to observe Sawm this day. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 656, Hadees 2004) Similarly, blessed Friday and the day of Arafah have also been called Eid in different narrations.

Two Eids

It is stated in Tirmizi Shareef that Sayyiduna Abdullah bin Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا recited the following blessed Ayah:

اَلْیَوْمَ اَكْمَلْتُ لَكُمْ دِیْنَكُمْ وَ اَتْمَمْتُ عَلَیْكُمْ نِعْمَتِیْ وَ رَضِیْتُ لَكُمُ الْاِسْلَامَ دِیْنًاؕ-

This day have I perfected your religion for you and completed My favour upon you, and have chosen Islam as your religion

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 6, Surah Al-Mai’dah, Ayah 3)

Having heard this blessed Ayah, a non-Muslim near him started saying: If this Ayah had been revealed to us, we would celebrate Eid on the day when it was revealed. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said: The day when this blessed Ayah was revealed there were two Eids: (1) Friday and (2) Arafah. (Tirmizi, Kitab-u-Tafseer, Surah Al-Maidah, vol. 5, pp. 33, Hadees 3055)

It has also become obvious from the above that celebrating the day when Islamic success is achieved is permissible and it is proved by the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَنْہُم . Otherwise, Sayyiduna Abdullah bin Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا would have clearly said: We consider it to be a Biddat (innovation in religion) to establish the memorial and to celebrate Eid on the day when any happy event takes place. It has also been proven that celebrating Eid-e-Milaad is permissible because it is the remembrance and gratitude for the greatest blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sirat-ul-Jinnan, vol. 2, pp. 382)

منانا جَشنِ مِیْلَادُالنَّبِی ہرگِز نہ چھوڑیں گے جُلوسِ پاک میں جانا کبھی ہرگِز نہ چھوڑیں گے

خُدا کے دوستوں سے دوستی ہرگِز نہ چھوڑیں گے نَبِی کے دُشمنوں کی دُشمنی ہرگِز نہ چھوڑیں گے

رہنما کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ رہبر کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ افسر کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سَرْوَر کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مَحبوبِِ ربّ کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ سُلطانِ عَرَب کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ رَسُولِ اَکرم کی آمد مَرحبا ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے ٭ مَرحبا یا مُصْطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, has its own unique manner of expressing thanks for the greatest blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that is, the blessed birth of the Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Grand Ijtima’at of Milaad are held in countless countries of the world under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami during the sacred night of Eid Milaad-un-Nabi. How beautiful are the blessings of Milaad Ijtima’! Madani revolution takes place in the lives of many fortunate people who attend this Ijtima. Therefore you are also requested to remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain the blessings of celebrating the blessed birth and celebrate Milaad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as much as possible.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in almost 104 departments. One of them is Madrasa tul Madinah Online. In Shawwal- ul-Mukarram 1432 A.H. (September 2011), the Majlis ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online’ was established, providing the Islamic brothers of different countries with the facility of learning the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation with the help of internet. In addition to the correct method of Quranic recitation, the rulings on basic Islamic teachings such as Wudu, Ghusl, Tayammum, Azan, Salah, Zakah, Sawm and Hajj etc., are also taught to Islamic brothers. Detailed information about this department and the admission forms are available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . So the Islamic brothers, who are willing to get enrolled in Madrasa tul Madinah Online, must visit this website of Dawat-e-Islami.

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اِسلامی تِری دُھوم مَچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How is it for women to attend processions of Milaad?

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely celebrating Eid Milaad-un-Nabi is an act of great reward and the source of attaining Divine pleasure. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, millions of devotees of Rasool attend the procession of Milaad on the day of 12 th Rabi-ul-Awwal. But remember! Women are not allowed at all to go to such processions. Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has forbidden it many times

in his Madani Muzakarahs. But Alas! Some unwise people bring their women to the processions of Milaad that is certainly a matter of serious thinking. Remember! Women’s act of attending the processions of Milaad constantly expose [us] to danger, causes mingling of men and women, unlawful gazes, puts devotees of Rasool in trouble, becomes the cause of insult for Muslims, gives Satan and conspirators a chance of spreading evils. In short, women’s act of attending a procession of Milaad awakens many Fitnahs (Evils). It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The Fitnah [evil] is sleeping. Curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be upon the one who awakens it. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 370, Hadees 5975) To destroy the system of life by making people suffer from restlessness, disagreements, difficulty and trouble without any religious advantage is called ‘Fitnah’. (Hadiqah Nadiyah, vol. 2, pp. 146)

The character of our Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen, Sahabiyaat رَضِیَ اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَنْہُنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن, female pious saints رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِتَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن in regard to acting upon Shar’i principles, maintaining the sanctity of chador [veil] and boundary wall of house, obeying the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and preferring to be at home except any Shar’i need, is certainly a best practical example for our Islamic sisters. Therefore, Islamic sisters should make the character of these Allah-fearing women a practical example for themselves and make the path that will lead to Paradise easy for them. Let’s listen to a thought-provoking parable in this regard.

I have performed the Fard Hajj

When Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna Sawdah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهَا was asked about a Nafl Hajj and ‘Umrah, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهَا replied, ‘I have performed the Fard Hajj; my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded me to remain at home; I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, now only my corpse shall leave this home.’ The narrator said, ‘I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! After that until her last breath, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهَا never stepped outside her home.’ (Tafseer Ad-Dur-rul-Mansur, vol. 6, pp. 599)

Summary of speech!

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, we have heard that:

§ Entire creation celebrates the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Muslims have always celebrated the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has illuminated everything of the universe.

§ The blessed birth is celebrated all over the world with great pomp, zeal and enthusiasm.

§ The birthday of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a day of Eid for Muslims.

§ Celebrating blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the custom of the chosen bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ Celebrating blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an act of expressing gratitude for great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to celebrate the blessed birth with great pomp, zeal and enthusiasm as per Shari’ah throughout our life, for the Sadaqah (sake) of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

14 Madani pearls of Miswak

1. Miswak should be of Peelu or bitter wood such as olive etc.

The thickness of a Miswak should be equal to that of the small finger.

It shouldn’t be longer than a hand-span, otherwise Satan sits on it.

Its bristles should be soft because hard bristles cause gaps between the teeth and gums.

Miswak being fresh is better otherwise make it soft by placing it in a glass of water for a while.

Doctors advise to cut the bristles of Miswak daily.

The method of performing Miswak

Perform Miswak horizontally on teeth.

Whenever one performs Miswak, it should be done so at least thrice and washed each time.

Hold the Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains at the bottom, and the middle three fingers remain on it while the thumb remains at the top bristles end of Miswak. First clean the top right row of the teeth and then the top left row. Then clean the bottom right row and then the bottom left row of the teeth.

Performing Miswak while holding it in a fist may cause piles.

Miswak is a Sunnat-e-Qabliyyah [in other words, Miswak is a Sunnah before Wudu, not during Wudu] therefore perform Miswak before starting Wudu, then wash both hands three times and (complete Wudu) as per usual. However, it becomes Sunnah Muakkadah when there is a bad breath. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 837)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department

of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

