اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Importance of Salah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

ا َلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ ا للہ

نَـوَیْتُ سُنَّتَ الاعْتِکَا

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep getting the reward of I’tikaf. Remember! There is no Shar’i permission to eat and drink, sleep or do Sahari and Iftari even to drink Zamzam water and the water on which Dam has been made in a Masjid. However, if the intention of I’tikaf is made, all these acts will become permissible. One should not make intention to observe I’tikaf only to eat, drink or sleep, but rather he should do it for pleasing Allah Almighty. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: If someone wants to eat, drink, sleep in a Masjid, he should make intention to observe I’tikaf, do Zikr of Allah Almighty for some time, then whatever he wants he can do (i.e. now if he wants to eat, drink or sleep, he can do so.).

Excellence of blessed Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ مِاءَۃً کَتَبَ اللّٰہُ بَیْنَ عَیْنَیْہِ بَرَاءَ ۃً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَاءَۃً مِّنَ النَّارِوَاَسْکَنَہُ اللّٰہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مَعَ الشُّہَدَاءِ

i.e. The one who recited Durood upon me hundred times, Allah Almighty inscribes between both his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and fire of

Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, He will keep him with martyrs. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for pleasing Allah Almighty and attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by saying Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, let us listen to the importance of Salah, benefits of offering Salah and harm of leaving Salah.

Flames of fire in grave

Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions an admonitory parable on page no. 20 of his booklet “Kafan Choron ke Inkashafat” [Disclosures from shroud thief]: A man’s sister died. After he returned having buried her, he recalled that his pouch of money had dropped into her grave. So he came to the graveyard to dig it out from the grave. When he dug the grave open, he saw a terrifying scene. The flames of fire were blazing in the grave of his sister. He quickly filled up the grave and rushed to his mother and asked, ‘Dear mother! What were the deeds of my sister?’ She said, ‘Son! Why are you asking?’ He replied, ‘I have seen flames of fire blazing in her grave.’ On hearing this, his mother began to cry and said, Alas! ‘Your sister was sluggish in Salah and would offer Salah after the stipulated time (i.e. she used to offer Salah after making it Qada).’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 189)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know from the aforementioned narration that being lazy in offering Salah is a very big sin and a cause for the punishment of grave. We shall also offer all five Salahs with full enthusiasm in Masjid with Jama’at and not observe laziness in Salah at all.

Being lazy in Salah is a sign of hypocrites. When hypocrites used to stand for Salah with Muslims, they used to be lazy in doing so. The reason because their hearts were void of Iman [faith], hence, they were unable to relish the pleasure of worship. They used to offer Salah just to show off to people. Allah Almighty says regarding them in 142 nd Ayah of Surah Nisa, Part 5:

وَ اِذَا قَامُوْۤا اِلَى الصَّلٰوةِ قَامُوْا كُسَالٰىۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: A nd when they stand up for Salah, they do it unwillingly.

Under this Ayah, it is written in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Not offering Salah, offering it in front of people but not when alone,

offering it with extreme humility and self-mortification in front of people and quickly when alone, bringing other thoughts in your mind while offering Salah, not making efforts to offer it with composure and contentment, etc., are all signs of laziness. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 2, pp. 335)

Alas! We miss our Salah just because of laziness in our society today, whereas, we immediately become active from being lazy when it comes to committing a sin. There are such people as well that if they miss one or more Salahs, then they don’t offer Salah deliberately for weeks, rather months. If any well-wisher Islamic brother performs individual efforts and persuades them to offer Salah, then they reply saying: “(اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ), I will resume offering Salah from next Friday”, or “I will start offering Salah properly from next Ramadhan”, etc. In other words, it is as if we very shamelessly and boldly admit the fact that (مَعَاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ), we will continue committing this major sin of missing Salah until next Friday or Ramadhan. This is undoubtedly a result of having no Divine fear and any passion for worship. Otherwise, the one who has the Divine fear and passion for worship in his heart, he punctually offers Salah in every state and refrains from the disobedience to Allah Almighty.

Remember! Missing Salah deliberately is a major sin, ‘Haraam act and an action that leads towards the Hell. Allah Almighty says in Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah no. 59:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So after them in their place came those unworthy successors who missed Salah and pursued their lusts, so they will soon encounter the jungle of Ghayy in Hell (a dreadful valley in Hell).

Terrifying valley and frightening well of the Hell

Dear Islamic brothers! The aforementioned Ayah talks about “Ghayy” . It refers to a valley of Hell. Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: “Ghayy” is a valley in the Hell which has the most heat and depth. There is a well in it called “Hub Hub”. When the fire of Hell gets close to extinguishing, then Allah

Almighty opens up that well which makes the fire of Hell blazing just like before. (Allah Almighty says):

كُلَّمَا خَبَتْ زِدْنٰهُمْ سَعِیْرًا(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whenever it will be about to extinguish, We will intensify the flame.

This well is for those who miss Salah, fornicators, alcoholics, interest takers and the ones who oppress parents. (Bahar-e-Shari'at, vol. 1, pp. 434; summarised)

Punishment of Hell and difficulties of the world

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that “Ghayy” is a valley in the Hell which has most depth and heat. When the fire of Hell gets close to extinguishing, then this valley is opened up which blazes back the fire of Hell. Just imagine, what will a non-Salah-offering person go through when he will be thrown into it? Remember! Hell is the place for the wrath of Allah Almighty to be revealed at. The way there is no limit to His mercy and blessings and human intellect cannot comprehend it, similarly, there is no limit to the wrath of Allah Almighty either.

Any harmful thing that one can think of, for example, plucking a living person’s nails using a tool; beating someone with a knife or stick; fracturing someone’s bones by driving a vehicle over his body; pouring salt and pepper over someone after severing his body organs; peeling off the skin from the body of a living person; operating someone without giving him anaesthesia; or the sufferings of different ailments such as headache, fever, stomach ache; or sufferings of serious illnesses such as heart attack, cancer, kidney stone pain, itch or severe stress, etc., or all the diseases, worldly calamities and hardships that one can think of are very insignificant in front of the torments of the Hell. In short, if all the illnesses and calamities of the world are inflicted upon a person, they are still not even equal to the slightest punishment of the Hell.

Slightest punishment of the Hell

What is the slightest punishment of the Hell? Regarding this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who will be afflicted with the slightest

punishment of Hell will be made to wear the shoes of fire. Due to it, his brain will boil the way a copper pot boils. He would be under the impression that he is subjected to the severest of the punishments, whereas, this would be the slightest punishment upon him.’ (Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 111, Hadees 517)

O devotees of Rasool! Fear the torment of Hell. Feel pity on your weak bodies. Abandon laziness, refrain from sins and start offering Salah. Alas! Some people miss their Salah by indulging in useless activities. They don’t even realise the fact that they are continuously disobeying Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty is blessing us with countless blessings day and night without us asking for them, but some people are deprived of prostrating in His court only five times a day.

Alas! In order to remain protected against worldly diseases, problems and hardships, we start Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations) instantly told to us by people, but Allah Almighty, Who has commanded us to offer Salah hundreds of times in the Holy Quran, everyone should ponder that how much do I act upon this command? When I am called to present myself in the court of Allah Almighty, how many times do I say “Labbaik” and go to the Masjid? Everyone should ponder that the five times daily call from the Masjid that calls towards success, do I ignore it or do I go to the Masjid leaving everything behind? Alas! So many heedless people still remain asleep heedlessly despite hearing about the punishments of the grave, severities of the Hell and terrors of the Judgement Day. May Allah Almighty truly wake us up from the sleep of heedlessness.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! 5 times daily Salah is Fard upon every sane, Baaligh [the one who has reached the age of puberty], male and female Muslim. The one who denies the obligation of Salah is excluded from the fold of Islam even if his name and other acts remain like that of Muslims. The one who does admit Salah to be Fard but misses even one Salah deliberately is a

grave sinner and deserving of the torment of the Hell. A’la Hazrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘The one who deliberately missed one Salah became deserving of staying in the Hell for thousands of years unless he repents for it and offers its Qada.’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 158) Just imagine that one will have to stay in the Hell for thousands of years for missing only one Salah deliberately, then what severe punishment will one face who misses the whole day’s Salahs deliberately, or doesn’t offer them at all.

O devotees of Rasool! Remember! Even Satan seeks refuge from the one who deliberately misses Salah.

It is narrated that a person was going in a jungle. Satan also joined him. That person did not offer a single Salah throughout the day, to the extent that night fell. Satan started running away from that person. Astonished, the person asked Satan the reason for him running away. The Satan replied: I only denied once in my entire life to prostrate to Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and I became accursed, and you have missed all five Salahs today. I fear that in case you get afflicted with torment, may I not get afflicted with it too. (Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 144)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall also offer all five daily Salahs punctually with Jama’at in the first row of the Masjid with Takbeer-e-Ula [primary Takbeer]. In order to develop the fear of the Divine torment and the habit of offering Salah, let’s listen to 4 admonitions for not offering Salah.

1. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْه ُ states: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised me: Do not associate partners to Allah Almighty even if you are torn into pieces and burnt. Do not leave Fard Salah deliberately because the one who misses Salah deliberately, refuge is lifted away from him. And do not drink alcohol at all because it is the root of every evil. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 376, Hadees 4034)

2. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who left Salah will meet Allah Almighty in such a state that Allah Almighty will have wrath upon him. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 2, pp. 26, Hadees 632)

3. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who left Salah decreased his household and wealth. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 132, Hadees 19085)

4. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who missed Salah deliberately is verily deprived of Allah’s mercy. (Mu'jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 12, pp. 195, Hadees 13023)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: A non-Salah offering person does not stay under the refuge of Allah Almighty. By the virtue of the blessing of Salah, a person remains protected from calamities in this world, a bad end at the time of his death, failing (the test of) grave, and severities of the Judgement Day by the grace of Allah Almighty. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 79; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Being heedless in regards to Salah is a means of Allah Almighty’s displeasure, being deserving of the Hell and blessings being taken away from the households and wealth. While commanding us to punctually offer our Salah, Allah Almighty says in Part 2, Surah e Baqarah, Ayah no. 238:

حٰفِظُوْا عَلَى الصَّلَوٰتِ وَ الصَّلٰوةِ الْوُسْطٰىۗ-وَ قُوْمُوْا لِلّٰهِ قٰنِتِیْنَ(۲۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Guard all your Salahs and (particularly) the middle Salah, and stand with devotion before Allah.

Importance of Salah can also be judged from the fact that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم supplicated for Salah to remain established for himself as well as his offspring. It has been mentioned in Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah no. 40 in the following way:

رَبِّ اجْعَلْنِیْ مُقِیْمَ الصَّلٰوةِ وَ مِنْ ذُرِّیَّتِیْ ﳓ رَبَّنَا وَ تَقَبَّلْ دُعَآءِ(۴۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O my Lord! Make me the one who keeps Salah established, and (also) to some of my offspring. O our Lord! And answer my supplication.’

Remember! Even on the Day of Judgement, the first question will be regarding Salah. It is stated in a Hadees: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَایُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَا تُہٗ i.e. On the Day of Judgement, the first thing a bondman will be questioned about is his Salah’. Under this Hadees, ‘Allamah Abdul Rauf Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Undoubtedly, Salah is the symbol of Iman [faith] and essence of worship.’ (At-Tayseer, vol. 1, pp. 391)

A person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and asked about the most superior action three times. All three times, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the same reply that: Salah is the most superior action. (Musnad Imam Ahmed, vol. 2, pp. 580, Hadees 6613)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! We shall also understand the importance of Salah and not only offer all 5 Salahs punctually in the first row of Masjid with Takbeer-e-Ula ourselves but we should also take our mature children with us to the Masjid, not the immature ones. It is stated in Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 434: ‘There is a prohibition for taking immature children to the Masjid. It is stated in a Hadees: “ جَنِّبُوْامَسَاجِدَکُمْ صِبْيَانَکُمْ وَمَجَانِيْنَکُمْ i.e. Keep your Masajid safe from immature children and insane individuals”.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 415, Hadees 750)

O devotees of A’la Hazrat! Along with offering Salah punctually, if we also take our mature children to the Masjid with us, then they will be inclined towards offering Salah from their childhood. They will be used to offering Salah when they grow up; because whatever is embedded in children’s nature in their childhood gets firmly developed in their character when they grow up.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

3 Sayings of Allah Almighty regarding Salah

Dear Islamic brothers! If someone doesn’t offer Salah even after knowing the importance of it, then such a person is an extremely foolish person and

gathers the means for entering the Hell himself. Offering Salah is the source of gaining blessings in this world and the Hereafter. At various places in the Holy Quran, it not only commands us to offer Salah, but also persuades us to offer it by mentioning its reward. Let’s listen to three saying of Allah Almighty in this regard:

Allah Almighty says in part 6, Surah Nisa, Ayah No. 162:

وَ الْمُقِیْمِیْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ سَنُؤْتِیْهِمْ اَجْرًا عَظِیْمًا۠(۱۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who keep Salah established, and give Zakat, and believe in Allah and the Last Day; to such (people), We shall soon give a great reward.

Allah Almighty says in part 9, Surah Anfaal, Ayah No. 3 and 4:

الَّذِیْنَ یُقِیْمُوْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ یُنْفِقُوْنَؕ(۳) اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٌ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ وَ مَغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Those who keep Salah established and spend some in Our Path from what We have provided for them. Only these are true Muslims; for them are ranks with their Lord, and is forgiveness and honourable sustenance.

Allah Almighty says in part 6, Surah e Ma'idah, Ayah No. 12:

وَ قَالَ اللّٰهُ اِنِّیْ مَعَكُمْؕ-لَىٕنْ اَقَمْتُمُ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَیْتُمُ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah said, ‘Indeed I am with you. Undoubtedly, if you keep Salah established, and pay Zakat, and believe in My Messengers and respect them, and lend Allah a good loan, so I will surely

remove your sins, and I will surely admit you to Gardens; beneath which rivers flow.

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! What great rewards are there for Salah-offering people in the court of Allah Almighty. At some places, they are given the glad tidings of Paradise and forgiveness, and at other places, they are given the glad tidings of a great reward. Even in blessed Ahadees, there has been a great emphasis on the persuasion of offering Salah. If we abandon all our worldly activities as soon as the time for Salah approaches and start getting ready to offer Salah and offer it with Jama’at with humility of body and full concentration, then not only will it enable us to gain the blessings of this world but one benefit of the Hereafter would be that the same Salah will become a means of our salvation and forgiveness on the Day of Judgement.

Forgiveness of the one offering Salah with humility and self-mortification

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah Almighty has made 5 Salahs Fard. The one who performs proper Wudhu for them, offers them in their due time, and completes its Ruku and Sujood with humility, then it is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty to forgive him. And the one who does not offer them [the 5 daily Salahs], then he will be deprived of the mercy of Allah Almighty. If He Almighty wills, He may forgive him and if He wills, He may punish him. (Abu Dawood, Raqm 1, 425/186)

Salah wipes off sins

O devotees of Rasool! Those fortunate Muslims who offer the five daily Salahs, all their sins are forgiven. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘If anyone among you has a stream in his courtyard and takes bath in it 5 times a day, would any dirt remain on him?’ People humbly replied: ‘No.’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Salah wipes away sins in the same manner as water washes away dirt.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 2, pp. 165, Hadees 1397)

Every Salah is an atonement for the previous sins

Those fortunate individuals who are used to offering Salah, let’s suppose, if sins get committed by them in between two Salahs, then the second Salah

becomes an atonement for those sins. I.e. Allah Almighty forgives the sins committed between two Salahs.

Sayyiduna Haaris رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that one day, we and Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were seated. In the meanwhile, the Muazzin (one who calls Azan) came. Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked for water and performed Wudhu. Then, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘I saw the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performing Wudhu in the similar manner. I also heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: ‘The one who performs Wudhu the way I have performed and then offers the Zuhr Salah, Allah Almighty forgives his sins, i.e. the sins that were committed between Fajr and Zuhr. Then when he offers ‘Asr Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between Zuhr and ‘Asr. Then when he offers Maghrib Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between ‘Asr and Maghrib. Then when he offers Isha Salah, then Allah Almighty forgives his sins committed between Maghrib and Isha. Then it is possible that he spends the entire night lying down. Then when he gets up, performs Wudu and offers Fajr Salah, then the sins committed between ‘Isha and Fajr are forgiven. These are the virtuous deeds that remove the evils.’ (Al Ahadees-ul-Mukhtarah, vol. 1, pp. 450, Hadees 324)

Salah contains cure

O devotees of Rasool! Those fortunate individuals who offer all 5 daily Salahs, Allah Almighty grants them cure from diseases by virtue of it. Nowadays, such new diseases are being diagnosed that were not even heard of in the past. Despite spending millions on their treatment, the diseases keep increasing. If we act upon the blessed sayings of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and start offering Salah punctually, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we can also attain cure from diseases. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اِنَّ فِی الصَّلٰوۃِ شِفَاءً i.e. Indeed, there is cure in Salah. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 98, Hadees 3458) Therefore, no matter whether we are ill or healthy, we should not only offer Salah punctually ourselves, but also make our households used to offering Salah.

Blessings in sustenance

O devotees of Rasool! Those fortunate individuals who offer all five daily Salahs, Allah Almighty grants blessings in their sustenance. In this sensitive era that we are living in today, everyone works long hours but yet complains that I earn so much money but still there is no blessing in it. Remember! Offering all five daily Salahs with extreme humility and self-mortification while taking care of Ta’deel-e-Arkaan [1], Wajibat, Sunnahs and etiquette of Salah duly is a means of blessings and prosperity in sustenance.

(Rah-e-'Ilm, pp. 105)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Salah is a great form of worship. For a believer, Salah is a great act that leads him towards the Paradise. Paradise becomes Wajib for the one who offers two Rak’at Salah with extreme humility of the body and full concentration. Two Rak’at Salah is better than this world and whatever it contains. Salah is a beloved action in the sight of Allah Almighty. In exchange for every Sajdah in Salah, one righteous deed is written down, one sin is erased and one rank is elevated. A Salah-offering person will be made to enter Paradise on the Day of Judgement with peace. Salah wipes off sins. Salah washes away the filth of sins. One Salah erases the sins committed during the previous Salah. A Salah-offering person spends the night in goodness. Salah erases sins. A Salah-offering person will enter Paradise. Ma'soom [innocent - sinless] angels request in the court of Allah Almighty for the forgiveness of the Salah-offering person. A Salah-offering person remains under the protection of Allah Almighty. Salah supplicates for the protection of the Salah-offering person. A Salah-offering person is a complete believer. A Salah-offering person will be given full reward. Salah disgraces Satan.

So let’s make the intention that from now onwards, we will not miss any Salah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will offer all daily 5 Salahs with Jama’at in the first row of the Masjid, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will persuade others to offer Salah as well, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will fill Masajid with Salah offering people, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We

will launch the ‘Masjid-filling campaign’, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Moreover, in order to adopt this Madani mindset, we will firmly attach ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and actively continue to take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zeli Halqa, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will keep acting upon the Madani In'amaat and travelling with the Madani Qafilahs, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

“Madani Qafilah”, one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! Madani Qafilah is also among the 12 Madani activities of the Zeli Halqa. ا َلْـحَمْـدُ

لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

٭ Madani Qafilah is a great source to acquire Islamic knowledge.

٭ Madani Qafilah is a means for blessings to be showered upon.

٭ By the virtue of Madani Qafilah, one attains steadfastness over Faraaid and Wajibat.

٭ By the virtue of Madani Qafilah, one gets the opportunity of acting upon Sunnahs.

٭ By the virtue Madani Qafilah, one gets the privilege of offering Ishraq, Chasht, Awwabeen and Tahajjud.

٭ By the virtue of Madani Qafilah, one gets the opportunity of acting upon the Sunnah of calling people towards righteousness. Generally, Madani Qafilahs stay in Masajid. What can be said about those who stay in Masajid with the intention of worship. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said three things regarding such fortunate individual. (1) Benefit is sought from him. Or (2) His speech is full of wisdom. Or (3) He is awaiting for mercy. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 169, Raqm 503)

In order to learn in detail regarding this Madani activity “Madani Qafilah” out of the 12 Madani activities, read the booklet “Madani Qafilah” published by Maktaba-tul-Madina. All responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami, especially the Nigrans and Arakeen of the Majlis “Madani Qafilah”, should definitely read this booklet. This booklet can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of reading this booklet, you will be able to know:

٭ Aims and importance of travelling in the path of Allah Almighty

٭ 14 excellences and benefits of travelling with the Madani Qafilah

٭ Intentions of travelling with the Madani Qafilah

٭ Brief Jadwal [schedule] of Madani Qafilah

٭ 22 Madani pearls relating to Madani Qafilah

٭ Madani pearls in relation to selected Madani Qafilahs derived from Madani Muzakarahs

٭ Selected Madani pearls from the Madani Mashwarahs of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

٭ Questions and answers consisting of Shar’i and organisational precautions of Madani Qafilah and beneficial information,

٭ And various fragrant Madani pearls are blossoming in this booklet.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of Madani Qafilah and rejoice.

Got rid of sins

One Islamic brother was drowned in the filth of sins before joining the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. It was his normal practice to miss Salah deliberately, disobey parents and remain indulged in various other sins. How a reformation took place in his life was that one day, a devotee of Rasool associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, performed individual efforts upon him and persuaded him to travel in the Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami with the devotees of Rasool. Due to his (Islamic brother’s) kind invitation, he agreed to travel with the Madani Qafilah and soon became a traveller of the Madani Qafilah too. Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, he was blessed with offering all five Salahs with punctuality in the first row of the Masjid for the first time in his life. Moreover, he was also blessed with learning other Shar’i rulings too. A prominent change took place in his character due to the

blessings of the company of the devotees of Rasool. He became averted towards sins and inclined towards righteous deeds. He developed a mindset to act upon the Sunnahs. He made a firm intention to offer his Salahs punctually and he adorned his head with the crown of ‘Imamah [blessed turban] too. (Maflooj ki Shifa Yaabi ka Raaz, pp. 16)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We were listening about the importance and virtues of Salah. Remember! Salah is a pillar of Islam. Salah prevents one from diseases. Salah is a means of blessings in the sustenance. Salah not only saves one from the punishment of grave but is also a source of light for the dark grave. Wherever it has been commanded to offer Salah in the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees, it refers to offering it with all its Faraaid and Wajibat. Offering Salah with Jama’at is also among the Wajibat for men. Various virtues have been mentioned in Ahadees for offering Salah with Jama’at. For persuasion, let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Offering Salah with Jama’at is 27 times more superior than offering it alone. (Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 232, Hadees 645)

2. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who performed Wudhu properly, then left for Fard Salah and offered it with the Imam, his sins will be forgiven. (Shu'ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 9, Hadees 2727)

3. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When a person offers Salah with Jama’at and implores Allah Almighty for his need, then Allah Almighty does not like the fact that the person returns back before his need is fulfilled. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 299, Hadees 10591)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that what great blessings a person attains for offering Salah with Jama’at. Therefore, we shall also develop the habit of offering all five Salahs with Jama’at in the first row of the Masjid. At times, various disable and elderly people struggle to walk towards the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at, and then they offer Salah whichever way is

convenient for them. If they can prioritise offering Salah with Jama’at despite being in so much pain, then we should be more active in offering Salah with Jama’at.

Nowadays, various people try to surpass each other in worldly matters. For example, if they see a beautiful house, they will also desire for it. If they came across someone wearing clothes of an excellent garment, then same wish would arise in their hearts too. If they see someone in a brand new car, then they would also desire to have it. If they see someone running a successful business, then they would also dream of becoming rich. In short, people have become so greedy in the love of the wealth of this world that they make efforts tirelessly day and night to acquire it. If only we could also start acting upon righteous actions by seeing someone performing righteous deeds. If only we could also develop the yearning for offering all five daily Salahs with Jama’at when we see others going towards the Masjid. If only we could also start loving Masajid when we see others loving the Masajid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, A’la Hazrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embarked on great journeys and bore the difficulties of the travel, but always offered Salah with Jama’at. In this regard, let us listen to a faith enlightening parable of his.

A’la Hadrat’s رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه love for Salah

When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for the journey of Hajj for the second time at the age of 52, then he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell so ill after performing the rites of Hajj that he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained bedridden for more than two months. When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recovered a bit, he got ready to behold the blessed Raudah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He travelled through a boat and reached a place called “Raabigh” after three days via Jeddah. From there, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rode upon a camel to go to Madina-e-Munawwarah. During this journey, when he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached “Beer-e-Sheikh” [ بیرِ شیخ ], then destination was nearby but very less time was left for Fajr Salah.

The camel owners decided to stop the camels at the destination. But by then, there was a risk that the time of Fajr would pass. Seeing this situation, A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped there with his companions and the caravan left.

He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a canvas bucket but did not have a rope, and the well was quite deep as well. Therefore, they tied it with their turbans and drew water out of the well. Then they performed Wudhu and offered Salah within its due time. Now, they were worried that due to being ill for so long, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had become very weak. How would he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه walk for so many miles? When he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه turned his face, he saw a stranger camel rider waiting. He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thanked Allah Almighty and rode upon it. (Malfuzaat-e-A'la Hazrat, pp. 217)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ, o devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! This is the passion of Salah and worship of A’la Hazrat. Despite being ill for months, severe weakness and bearing the hardships of the journey, he رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left the caravan but did not leave the most superior act of worship, i.e. Salah. We shall punctually offer Salah on every occasion, whether it is an occasion of happiness or sorrow. Moreover, those who do not know how to offer Salah shall not feel embarrassed at all in learning it. Those who know how to offer Salah but do not offer due to falling prey to the satanic whispers such as “I am a grave sinner. I am not worthy of presenting myself in the court of Allah Almighty.” or “Let me become pious first. Let me grow a beard first. Then I will start offering Salah”, such people should remove such satanic whispers straightaway and start offering Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to its blessings, they will succeed in refraining from sins. Allah Almighty says in Part 21, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah No. 45:

اِنَّ الصَّلٰوةَ تَنْهٰى عَنِ الْفَحْشَآءِ وَ الْمُنْكَرِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Salah stops indecency and evil.

In the commentary of this Ayah, Sadr-ul-Afazil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The one who is punctual in his Salah and offers it properly, as a result of this, he will abandon those sins one day that he was indulged in once. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that a young Ansari man used to offer Salah with the

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He used to commit various major sins. People complained about him to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘His Salah will stop him from those sins one day.’ Therefore, he repented in near future and became a lot better. (Khaza'in-ul-'Irfan summarised)

Thief became Wali due to the blessing of Salah

Let’s listen to a beautiful parable in this regard: It is narrated that a thief entered the house of Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا at night time. He searched through the whole house but could not find anything except for a lota (ewer). When he intended to leave, then she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا said: ‘If you are a wise and clever thief, then you will not leave empty handed.’ He said: ‘I could not find anything.’ She رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا said: ‘O poor man! Perform Wudu with this lota (ewer) and enter the room and offer 2 Rak’at Salah. You will leave from here with something.’ He performed Wudhu as per her instructions.

When he stood for Salah, then she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا supplicated in the following manner: ‘O Allah Almighty! This man came to my house but could not find anything. Now, I have made him stand in Your court. Do not deprive him of Your grace and mercy.’ When he completed his Salah, he relished the sweetness of the worship. Therefore, he remained engaged in offering Salah until the last part of the night. When the time of Sahari arrived, Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا heard him saying while scolding his Nafs in the state of Sajdah: ‘When my Lord will ask me that were you not ashamed of disobeying Me? You used to hide sins from people but now, you are present in My court with the piles of sins! When He would inflict His wrath upon me and abandon me from His merciful court, then what answer will I give?’

Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا asked him: ‘O brother! How was the night?’ He said: ‘It was good. I stood in the court of Allah Almighty with humility and he reformed my mischief. He accepted my excuse. He forgave my sins and made me reach what I desired for.’

Then that person left with the signs of anxiousness on his face. Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا raised her hands towards the sky and humbly said: ‘O Gracious Lord! This person stood in Your court once and You accepted him. Whereas, I have been standing in Your court for a long time.

Have You accepted me too?’ Suddenly, she رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا heard the following from the ears of heart: ‘O Rabi’ah! We accepted him because of you and it was because of you that We blessed him with Our closeness.’ (Al Rauz-ul-Faaiq, pp. 159; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that how beautiful the worship Salah is that one thief comes with the intention of robbery and stands for Salah upon the instructions of a pious servant of Allah Almighty, Sayyidatuna Rabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْھا . He was lost in the sweetness of Salah so much that he remained engaged in offering Salah the whole night and came on the right path in the morning by repenting from his sins.

Unfortunately! There are a number of such people as well in our society who despite offering Salah cannot refrain from ‘Haraam and impermissible acts. Why is it so?

Dear Islamic brothers! It is possible that we don’t take care of the apparent and Baatini [inner] Sunnahs and manners of Salah properly which has kept us deprived of the blessings of Salah up to now. If we performed Wudhu properly and offered Salah with humility and self-mortification while abiding by all the apparent and Baatini Sunnahs and etiquette, then blessings of Salah would have been apparent upon us as well. Alas! A great number of Muslims do not offer Salah at all. Moreover, those who do offer, a lot of them do not know the basic rulings of Salah. Due to it, they make mistakes in their Salah which invalidates their Salah.

Therefore, along with making a firm intention of punctually offering Salah, we shall also pay full attention towards offering our Salah correctly so that our Salahs can be secured from being wasted. In order to save your Salah from mistakes, to learn the correct method of offering it and to learn the important rulings of Salah, read the book “Laws of Salah” written by Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and travel with the Madani Qafilahs. It is also extremely beneficial to complete the 7-day Faizan-e-Namaz course. Other than this, associate yourself with the Madani environment of

Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and render your services to its departments.

Majlis Madani Qafilah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is engaged in conveying the call towards righteousness throughout the world in around 107 departments. One of its departments is the Majlis Madani Qafilah. The aim of this department is to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, all around the world. In order to do so, it is to make every Islamic brother ready to travel and make him travel with a 12-month Madani Qafilah once in a lifetime, one month Madani Qafilah in every 12 months, 3-day Madani Qafilah according to the Jadwal [schedule] every month, and making them an individual who can convey call towards righteousness. Under this Majlis, numerous Madani Qafilahs of the devotees of Rasool travel in different countries, cities and villages for the propagation of Sunnahs. They spread the fragrance of Islamic knowledge, Sunnahs and invitation towards righteousness. Under the Majlis Madani Qafilah, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Dar-us-Sunnahs have been established at various locations. Local Islamic brothers and those from far come to these Dar-us-Sunnahs, attain Tarbiyyah [edification] of Sunnahs in the company of the devotees of Rasool, and then spread invitation towards righteousness throughout the world. May Allah Almighty bless the Majlis “Madani Qafilah” with further success.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Sunan and manners of I’tikaf

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about the Sunan and manners of I’tikaf. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever observes I’tikaf with faith and the intention to get reward, all of his previous sins will be forgiven. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 516, Hadees 8480)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one doing I’tikaf (for 10 days) in Ramadan is like the one who has performed Hajj and ‘Umrah twice. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 3966)

٭ I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan is ‘Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah ‘Alal Kifayah.’ (Durr-e-Mukhtar ma’ Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 430) This implies that if any one person from the whole city does I’tikaf, it will be sufficient for everyone (in the city) but if no body did it then everyone is blameworthy. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 5, pp. 152)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of I’tikaf will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭…٭…٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْه ُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 09 May 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunan and manners of I’tikaf

٭ Observing Sawm is not a condition for Nafl I’tikaf and there is no time limit for it either. Whenever you enter a Masjid, make the intention of I’tikaf. (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 235; summarized)

٭ The most important purpose of doing I’tikaf in Ramadan is to search for Layla-tul-Qadr. (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 232)

٭ The best Masjid for I’tikaf is Masjid-ul-Haraam, then Masjid-un-Nabawi عَـلٰی صَاحِبِھَا الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, then Masjid-ul-Aqsa (Bayt-ul-Muqaddas) and then any Jaami’ Masjid where the five daily Salah are offered with Jama’at.

(Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 240)

٭ It is a special mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the Mu’takif will gain the reward of even such righteous deeds he used to do outside the Masjid but can no longer perform them due to I’tikaf. It is as if he is still performing them, and their reward will be recorded for him. For example, if an Islamic brother used to visit sick people, but cannot do that due to I’tikaf he will still get its reward.

٭ Islamic sisters do I’tikaf in their Masjid-e-Bayt. (The place a woman specifies for Salah in her home is called Masjid-e-Bayt.) (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 289)

٭ A Mu’takif can exit the Masjid (boundaries) during I’tikaf due to the following two reasons: (1) Shar’i needs (2) Physical needs. (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 265)

Du’a for whenever you look at the moon

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the Du’a for “Whenever you look at the moon” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du'a is as follows:

اَعُوْذُ بِا للّٰہِ مِنْ شَرِّ ھٰذَ الْغَاسِقِ

Translation: I seek Allah’s refuge from the evil of this dark turning thing. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 240, Hadees 3377) (Khazeena-e-Rahmat, pp. 67)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ َ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

ا ٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

