اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Modesty and Ill-usage of Social Media

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

اِنَّ اللّٰہَ وَ کَّلَ بِقَبْرِیْ مَلَکًا فَلَا یُصَلِّیْ عَلَیَّ اَحَدٌ اِ لٰی یَوْمِ الْقِیَامَۃِ

اِلَّا اَبْلَغَنِیْ بِاِسْمِہٖ وَ اِسْمِ اَبِیْہِ اَعْطَاہُ اَسْمَاعَ الْخَلَائِقِ ہٰذَا فُلانُ بْنُ فُلانٍٍ قَدْ صَلّٰی عَلَیْکَ

i.e. Indeed, Allah Almighty has appointed one angel on my grave who has been blessed with the power of listening to the voices of the entire creation. Therefore, whosoever recites Salat upon me until the Day of Judgement, he (that angel) presents me his name along with his father’s name, (and says), ‘So and so, son of so and so, has recited this Salat upon you.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 251, Hadees 17291)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of modesty

Dear Islamic sisters! Islam gives a lot of importance to modesty. Highlighting the importance of modesty, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who preached modesty, has stated: ‘ اَلْاِيمَانُ بِضْعٌ وَّسَبْعُونَ شُعْبَةً، وَالْحَيَاءُ شُعْبَةٌ مِنَ الْاِيمَانِ ’ i.e. Iman [faith] has more than seventy (70) branches, and modesty is one of the branches of Iman. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 45, Hadees 35)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه writes: ‘True (essence of) modesty does not lie in the fact of only apparently performing virtuous deeds and acknowledging modesty only verbally; rather, modesty means to safeguard your apparent and non-apparent organs from sins. Therefore, one shall refrain from bowing his head down in prostration to anyone else except Allah Almighty; one shall purify his mind from ostentation [showing-off] and arrogance; one shall safeguard his tongue, eyes and ears from saying, seeing and listening to impermissible things. This would be the protection of the head. One shall protect his stomach from Haraam food, his private parts from fornication and his heart from evil desires. This would be the protection of the stomach. The truth of the matter is that these blessings can be attained by the bestowment of Allah Almighty and the gracious sight of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 440; summarised)

What is modesty?

Remember! Modesty is such a trait that stops a person from evil deeds. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اِذَا لَمْ تَسْتَحْیِ فَاصْنَعْ مَا شِئْتَ ’ i.e. if you do not possess modesty, then do whatever you like . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, chap. 56, pp. 470, Hadees 3484)

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه states: This saying is to make us feel fear that ‘ do whatever you like ’. You reap what you sow. If you do bad, (perform an immodest action), then you will face its punishment.

A noble person gave his son some advice. Its summary is as follows: ‘Whilst committing sin, when you feel no shame from anyone on the earth or in the sky, then consider yourself to be amongst the animals.’

‘Allamah ‘Ali Qaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states regarding modesty:

وَھُوَ خُلُقٌ یَّمْنَعُ الشَّخْصَ مِنَ الْفِعْلِ الْقَبِیْحِ بِسَبَبِ الْاِیْمَانِ

i.e. Modesty is the trait that prevents a person from committing evil deeds due to Iman [faith]. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 1, pp. 140; Taht-al-Hadees: 5)

Rulings of modesty

Author of the commentary of Sahih Bukhari, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Shareef-ul-Haq Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: At times, observing modesty becomes Fard and Wajib; such as observing modesty from a Haraam and impermissible action. At times, it becomes Mustahab [preferable]; such as observing modesty in abstaining from a Makruh Tanzeehi. And at times, it becomes Mubah [permissible]; such as observing modesty from performing a Mubah-e-Shar’i [i.e. such an action that Shar’iah has declared it to be permissible]. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 334)

Connection of modesty with the environment

Dear Islamic sisters! Environment and upbringing play a vital role in spreading modesty. One’s modesty develops further if she is blessed with a modest environment. Whereas, company of immodest people makes a person immodest, taking the purity of her heart and eyes away. Due to this, a person indulges in countless immoral and impermissible affairs. It was the blessing of modesty that stopped a person from committing sins and evil actions. When modesty is removed, then what will stop us from committing evil actions?

There are several people who do not commit evil actions fearing the embarrassment of being defamed. However, those who do not care about

being defamed, such immodest people end up committing every sin, cross the bounds of morality and end up being immoral, and do not even feel embarrassed to perform those actions that are against the human ethics. Whereas, righteous servants of Allah Almighty are not only an embodiment of modesty, but modesty is embedded into every vein and drop of their blood.

For persuasion, let us listen to a faith enlightening parable regarding the modesty of the third caliph and the beloved companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

Even angels observe modesty

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states that one day, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was lying down in his blessed house and the cloth was not in place at blessed thigh or calf. In the meanwhile, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came and sought permission to come inside. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (who had immense affection for Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) called him inside. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came inside. However, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remained lying in the same position and kept talking to him.

After this, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also came. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sought permission to enter. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (who had immense affection for Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) gave him the permission too. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came inside too, but the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remained lying like before, i.e. the cloth was not in place at his blessed thigh or calf.

Then the third caliph of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e- Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came. When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sought permission to come inside, then the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم got up and sat down, and straightened his clothes. Thereafter, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted permission to Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to enter.

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: When they all left, I asked the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What was the reason that when my honourable father,

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came, you remained lying like before? Then Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came, but you still remained lying like before and did not even move. But when ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came, then you got up, sat down and straightened your clothes?’ Replying to this question of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah, the Distributor of Na’mah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Shall I not observe modesty from the one whom even angels observe modesty from.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1004, Hadees 2401)

The aforementioned Hadees mentions the cloth being removed from the blessed thigh. Whilst explaining it, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states, ‘It does not mean that the blessed thigh was completely uncovered. It can also mean that the Qameez [long shirt] was removed from the blessed thigh, whereas it was still covered with the tahband [lower garment].’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 392)

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! What can be said about the modesty of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that even the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to observe modesty from him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possessed excellent qualities. To the extent that even during the [pre-Islamic] era of ignorance, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stayed away from various evils. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ says about himself that, ‘Neither did I ever hum useless couplets, nor did I ever hold a desire for them. I never consumed alcohol in the [pre-Islamic] era of ignorance, and nor during the period of Islam. And since I have pledged allegiance to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I have not touched my private part with my right hand since then.’ (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 39, pp. 225)

Modesty of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

O devotees of Rasool! Just ponder! When this is the state of modesty of a companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then what would be the state of the modesty of the most modest master, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?

Regarding the modesty of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the renowned companion, Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe more modesty than even an unmarried girl who observes modesty in purdah (veil).’

(Mishkat, vol. 2, pp. 365, Hadees 5813)

In the commentary of this Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states, ‘When an unmarried girl is about to get married, she is made to sit in one corner of the house. In Urdu, this tradition is called Mayun [ مایوں ]. During this time, the girl is extremely shy and observes extreme modesty. She even observes modesty and is shy from her own household. She does not talk to anyone openly. The modesty of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was even more than that. Modesty is a special gem of a person. Stronger the Iman [faith] is, higher the (level of) modesty will be.’

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 73)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Alas! The environment has become so critical that we are falling into the pits of illiteracy and immodesty. Along with other evils the destruction of unveiling, immodesty, and unlawful gazing have brought our society to the brink of destruction and devastation.

مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه, circumstances have become so severe that those families who observe purdah (veil) are deemed to be old minded. Moreover, they are severely taunted by saying that they do not move along with the time; whereas, on the other hand, those who foment [promote] unveiling and obscenity are highly acclaimed. Those who observe veil are ridiculed [made fun of]. If a purdah (veil) observing Islamic sister attends a function and refrains from unlawful gazing, then she is severely taunted. Someone says, ‘ just leave it! We know how strictly you observe veil ’.

Similarly, veil-observing Islamic sister is taunted in the following manner also, ‘The world has gone so advanced and you are still so old fashioned! Religion is not that strict. There should only be the purdah (veil) of heart. ’ مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه

How is it to say, “There should be only veil of heart”?

The following question was asked to Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

What is the truth behind the phrase “ there should be only veil of heart ”? He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه replied: This is a great and an extremely evil trap of Satan. Moreover, this phrase denies those Ayahs of the Holy Quran that command one from covering the apparent body. For example, it is stated in part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 33:

وَ قَرْنَ فِیْ بُیُوْتِكُنَّ وَ لَا تَبَرَّجْنَ تَبَرُّجَ الْجَاهِلِیَّةِ الْاُوْلٰى

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And stay in your homes and do not remain unveiled like the former unveiling in the times of ignorance.

Under this blessed Ayah, it is written in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 8, page 21: i.e. the way the women of the pre-Islamic era of ignorance used to remain unveiled, you should not observe unveiling like that. Mufassireen have different opinions in regards to the eras of former and latter ‘ جَاهِلِیَّةِ ’ [ignorance]. One of the opinions is that the era of former Jahiliyyah refers to the period before Islam. During that time, women would go out strutting and revealing their adornment and beauty so that (stranger) men gaze at them. They would wear such clothes that would not cover their body parts properly. Furthermore, the era of latter Jahiliyyah refers to the last era in which, the affairs of people will be like those of the former people. (Khaazin, Al-Ahzaab, Taht-al-Ayah: 33, vol. 3, pp. 499; Jalalayn, Al-Ahzaab, Taht-al-Ayah: 33, pp. 354)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The concept that “Baatin [i.e. heart] should be pure, no matter how the apparent form is”, is baseless. It is stated in a blessed Hadees, ‘If his heart was pure, then his apparent form would have

been reformed itself’. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 605; Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 193-195; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Generally, a person passes through three stages in her life: (1) Childhood (2) Youth and (3) old age.

In childhood, a person is inclined towards playing and physical activities. In the old age, body parts become weak. One faces numerous diseases. One gets less inclined towards sins and gets more inclined towards performing worship; whereas, youth is that important phase of a person’s life where carnal desires dominate a person’s mind. The reason because the body organs are healthy during this phase of life, that’s why our youth forget the true purpose of their life and waste the precious moments of their life in immodest activities rather than spending them in the activities that would bring about the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Therefore, in order to save themselves from the destructiveness of immodesty, our youth should especially follow the footsteps of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی as how beautifully they spent the precious moments of their youth. They observed extreme modesty even at the peak of their youth. In return for this, they became deserving of rewards and favours from the court of Allah Almighty. Let us listen to a parable of a similar kind of modest young man and try to get the Madani pearls gathered from this parable.

Undoubtedly, I have been blessed with 2 Jannahs

During the blessed era of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, there was a very pious young man who would worship abundantly. Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also be stunned upon his [acts of] worship. After offering Salat-ul-‘Isha in Masjid, that young man would go to serve his old father. On the way, a beautiful woman used to call him towards her but the young man would pass through without paying any attention to her with his gaze lowered.

After all, one day, falling prey to the whispers of Shaytan and invitation of that woman, that young man went towards her with the evil intention. As soon as he reached the doorstep, he recalled the following blessed saying of Allah Almighty:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ اتَّقَوْا اِذَا مَسَّهُمْ طٰٓىٕفٌ مِّنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ تَذَكَّرُوْا فَاِذَاهُمْ مُّبْصِرُوْنَۚ(۲۰۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed those who fear (Allah); whenever a temptation from the devil touches them, they become alert, and at that very moment, their eyes open-up. (Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 201)

As soon as he recalled this blessed Ayah, then the fear of Allah Almighty dominated his heart to such an extent that he fell on the ground unconscious. When he did not arrive home till quite late, then his old father came there in his search and brought him home with the help of people. When he regained consciousness, his father inquired the reason for him losing consciousness. Upon this, the young man relayed the entire incident. While doing so, when he mentioned the aforementioned Ayah, then once again the fear of Allah Almighty dominated him. He let out a loud scream and passed away.

Arrangements for his Ghusl, shrouding and burial were made the same night. In the morning, when this incident was relayed to Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to his father for condoling him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to him, ‘Why did you not inform us last night? We too would have participated in the funeral.’ He replied, ‘Keeping in view your rest, we did not feel it appropriate to do so.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Take me to his grave.’ After reaching his grave, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ recited the 46 th Ayah of Surah Ar-Rahman, part 27:

وَ لِمَنْ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّهٖ جَنَّتٰنِۚ(۴۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And for the one who fears standing in the Majestic Court of his Lord, are two Paradises [1] .

Upon this, the young man loudly proclaimed from the grave, ‘O Ameer of Mu`mineen! Indeed, my Lord Almighty has blessed me with two Jannahs.’ (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 213)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that what great Madani mindset Allah-loving people had even in their youth in terms of performing acts of worship and abstaining from immodesty? As most of their time even in their youth was spent in worshipping Allah Almighty and serving their parents. These people would always remain cautious of the satanic traps. That’s why, despite having the power of committing the sin, they would protect their eyes and keep their noble character pure from immodest activities.

Remember! Shaytan is an open enemy of a Muslim. He tries his utmost to deviate Muslims away from the path of the righteous people and indulge them into sins so that modesty gets completely eradicated from the society, and immodesty and obscenity prevail all around.

‘Madani Daurah’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to increase the passion and respect for the Awliya-e-Kiraam, associate yourselves with Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a movement of devotees of Rasool, and take a part actively in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the eight Madani activities is ‘Madani Daurah’ (Madani visit), through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their houses. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani Daurah’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least an elderly woman) should make ‘Madani Daurah’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister living in Taxila (district Rawalpindi, Punjab) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being angry and peevish. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The communication of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attain the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the sounds/voices of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! A woman plays a vital role in forming or deforming a society. For example, if the woman is pious, righteous and modest, then the same attributes will be shifted over to her future generations. Therefore, women should abandon adopting impermissible fashions and refrain from going to shopping centres, markets, mixed entertainment spots and immodest places unnecessarily and become a centre of attention there. On the contrary, they should develop a habit of observing veil and staying

indoors while acting upon the blessed Seerah of Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ and the blessed daughters رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; because these are the blessed personalities who are the embodiment of modesty. Especially, the state of modesty of the beloved and blessed daughter of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, is immensely enviable and something to be followed. Therefore, let us listen to a faith refreshing parable regarding the matchless modesty of Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Matchless observance of veil by a matchless personality

After the apparent demise of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the grief of this incident dominated Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to such an extent that the smile from her lips had completely vanished. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was seen smiling only once before her apparent demise.

This event is as such that Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was worried over the fact that all my life, I protected myself from the eyes of non-Mahram men. Now after my death, may it not be the case that people’s gaze falls on my shroud wrapped blessed body.

At one occasion, Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: I saw in Abyssinia that they tie tree branches over the funeral and make it in a shape of palanquin. Then they place a shawl over it. Then, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا called for date branches, joined them together and placed a cloth over them. Then she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا showed it to Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Upon this, Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا became extremely happy and a smile spread on her lips. This was the only smile that was seen on her lips after the apparent demise of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 159)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remained grieved all her life after the apparent demise of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, despite this, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا strictly observed modesty until her last breath. All she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was worried about that in case any non-Mahram man casts sight on my shroud after my demise.

I have lost son, not modesty!

Similar kind of event is found for the Sahabiyyah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Khallad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Her son got martyred in one of the battles. In order to find out about him, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا went in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while covering her face and observing veil. Upon this, someone asked her out of astonishment, ‘You have covered your face even at this time!’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied, ‘I have indeed lost my son, not my modesty.’ (Abu Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 9, Hadees 2488)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that despite her son being martyred, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Khallad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا still observed “veil”. But alas! Unveiling and immodesty are prevalent all around now. Remember! This is what Shaytan wants that a woman should be unveiled and modesty be eradicated. That’s why Shaytan and its followers raised the slogan “ men and women shoulder to shoulder ”. Women thought that they are being given respect and dignity through this slogan in society; whereas, the purpose of this slogan is to fool the woman and use her beauty for one’s own financial gains.

Destruction of Internet

Dear Islamic sisters! Social media is like a knife that has good usage as well as an ill-usage. But unfortunately, there is more ill-usage of social media in our society. The obscene articles and stories, pictures and such videos that arouse carnal desires have destroyed the character, morals and habits of the younger generation. Sins like wasting one’s precious money and time, lying, deceiving and blackmailing people are rapidly spreading in our society. The usage of social media was limited before; but since this facility has become available on mobile phones, even small aged children are falling prey to it and destroying their future. Those who fall prey to it remain deprived of acquiring education, fail to attain a prominent status in the society, lose morals and become disgraced all around. Let us listen about some of the harms of social media.

Destruction of social media

1. Religious (spiritual) loss: It is stated on page no. 33 of the monthly magazine “ Faizan-e-Madinah ”, October 2017 edition: Those who use social media, it is very difficult for them to refrain from sins, especially unlawful gazing. Because people with corrupt beliefs and disbelievers also use social media in large numbers. That’s why sometimes there is a great risk for a common Muslim to fall prey to their whispers and develop corrupt beliefs or become an apostate.

2. Physical loss: Social media accounts are normally accessed through mobile phones or computers. Both of them are harmful to one’s eyesight. Moreover, in case of not using it in the right posture can also result in effecting one’s muscles.

3. Educational loss: Using time effectively is the key to success in education, whether worldly or religious. There would perhaps not be anything else that wastes one’s time as much as social media does.

4. Social loss: Although you can contact the entire world by sitting at one place through social media, but this has created distances among our own loved ones. Father, mother and children are all busy on their own social media accounts and are unable to give time to each other.

5. Economic loss: One spends a lot of money on the internet to use social media. Same time and money could be utilised more effectively in order to strengthen one’s position. May Allah Almighty enable us to appreciate time. اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

(Mahnamah Faizan-e-Madinah, October 2017, pp. 33)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see what severe destruction social media contains and what kind of evils are spreading in the society because of it? Therefore, wise approach is to spend time in performing worship, Zikr and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, contemplating the Hereafter, obeying the parents, Madani upbringing of children, being busy with Madani activities, and reading the

books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Maktaba-tul- Madinah.

Now the question arises that how can the responsible Islamic sisters of Dawat-e-Islami benefit from social media and how can Islam be served through it? So, let us listen to some important benefits of social media in terms of how it becomes useful for the activities of Deen.

Rendering services to Islam through social media

1. Means of calling to righteousness: It is stated on page no. 52 of the monthly magazine “ Faizan-e-Madinah ”, November 2017 edition: Positive usage of social media can become a means of earning numerous virtuous deeds. A large number of Islamic sisters can be presented with the call to righteousness at once.

2. Consultation for the religious activities: One positive use of social media is also that despite physically being at different locations, Madani Mashwarah can easily be conducted among everyone for the betterment of the religious activities.

3. Defending Islam: Social media can be used to eradicate conspiracies against Islam and straightaway abolish the misconceptions that get created due to it.

4. Ease in keeping in touch: Social media has made it very easy to stay in touch and convey messages to each other. Through social media, one can convey his message to anywhere in the world within few seconds. (Mahnamah Faizan-e-Madinah, November 2017, pp. 52; summarised)

5. Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat [speeches]: Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Guldastahs [instructive short clips] of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and other Muballighin [preachers] are watched and listened to through social media.

6. Programs full of knowledge and wisdom: One can watch the short clips of the faith enlightening, informative and spiritual programs of Madani Channel through the social media. Moreover, live broadcast of Madani Channel can also be heard and watched through social media.

7. Updates of Dawat-e-Islami: You can stay up to date with the updates of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, through social media.

8. Reading the books and booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Hundreds of books and booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah can easily be read through social media.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with teachers and students of (Women) colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering

Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progression!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of wearing shoes

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of wearing shoes from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Shake out the shoes before you put them on so that any insect or small stone etc. may come out if lying in them.

٭ Wear the right foot shoe first and then the left one. When taking them off, take off the left foot shoe first, and then the right one.

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: When any of you wears shoes, he should start wearing with the right foot shoe, and when taking them off, he should start taking off the left foot shoe, so that the right foot will be first when wearing and last when taking off.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 65, Hadees 5855)

