اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Islamic Saints’ Passion for Reforming the Ummah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Recite Salat upon me abundantly on Friday night and on the day of Friday

[from sunset on Thursday to sunset on Friday], because your Salat is presented to me. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 84, Hadees 241)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! There are numerous virtues and blessings of inviting people to good and forbidding them from evil. That was the reason why our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would not observe heedlessness in inviting people to good and forbidding them from evil.

If we study the history of Islam, then we realise that the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used their time in the most appropriate manner and authored books on various sciences due to their great passion for creating ease for the future generations and propagating the knowledge of Deen. These noble saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی sacrificed their time and household for the accomplishment of the great purpose of the call to righteousness.

If we think about it, then at times we will see the pages of history adorned with the likes of Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه distributing the pearls of knowledge of Deen and at times, we will see the name of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه enlightening the hearts of people with the Noor [luminosity] of ‘Ilm (knowledge). At some places, we will see Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reforming the Ummah and at some places, we will find the name of the great personality like Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who quenched the thirst of knowledge seekers through his writings.

In the current era, in order to spread call to righteousness across the globe, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه laid foundations of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, “Dawat-e-Islami” . In short, these sacred personalities continued the great work of reforming the Ummah through their Bayans [speeches], teachings, books, compilations and call to righteousness.

Today, let us listen to some faith-refreshing events of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی that are filled with the passion of reforming the Ummah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated a faith-refreshing parable on page 459-460 of the great and renowned book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’, volume 2 of Faizan-e-Sunnat (Blessings of Sunnah). Let us also listen to this parable and try to enlighten our hearts with its Madani pearls!

Whole tribe became Muslim

Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ along with Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ travelled in the Divine path and reached a garden of the tribe Bani Zafar where they sat on [the sidewall of] a well, namely ‘Maraq’ [ مَرَقۡ ]. People from the tribe of Banu Aslam gathered around them. The most powerful chiefs of the tribe were Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and Usayd Bin Hudayr who had not yet entered the fold of Islam. Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was a first cousin [i.e. a son of the maternal aunt] of Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz sent Usayd Bin Hudayr instructing him, ‘Go! Rebuke those two preachers and stop them who have come to mislead our naive people’ (م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ). Therefore, Usayd Bin Hudayr picked up his spear and reached where they were present. As soon as he arrived, he started speaking ill of them and threatened, ‘If your life is dear to you, go away from here.’ (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said kindly and affectionately, ‘Please sit down and just listen to what we say. If you find it to be appropriate, then accept it. If you do not like it, we will not force you.’

The nice words had an impact on Usayd Bin Hudayr. Sinking his spear into the ground, he sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented him with Madani pearls about Islam, reciting the Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A Madani revolution occurred in his heart and he had the honour of embracing Islam. Having embraced Islam, he said, ‘Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz will come here shortly. If he accepts your advice, my entire tribe will accept it. I am sending him to you.’ Saying this, he went straight to the place where Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was present and convinced him to meet the two preachers.

As soon as Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz arrived, he started speaking ill of them. (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ persuaded him kindly and affectionately to listen to the call to righteousness. He also sank his spear into the ground and sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented him also with Madani pearls about the perfection of Islam. He also recited the initial Ayahs of Surah Az-Zukhruf. The blessed Ayahs had a profound impact on the heart of Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and he also embraced Islam. Having become Muslim, Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned to his tribe and said, ‘What do you think of me?’ ‘You are our chief and your opinions are correct and highly regarded’, all the people said with one voice. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘It is Haraam [i.e. prohibited] for me to talk to your men and women unless you believe in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

The narrator said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! All men and women of the tribe became Muslim before evening.’ (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah, vol. 2, pp. 527-529; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard how bravely blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would convey the call to righteousness even by endangering their own lives! This parable also shows that individual efforts upon influential personalities who are given importance such as wealthy businessmen, mill owners, doctors, professors, etc., and those chiefs of tribes, families, affluent people and those associated with different walks of life who are obeyed by others may bring about far-reaching effects. The way when two chiefs of the tribe ‘Banu Aslam’ were called towards righteousness by the means of individual efforts, they accepted the call to righteousness by entering the fold of Islam and brought the entire tribe into it [fold of Islam].

Once a Muballigh (preacher) has met a dignitary, he should remain in touch with him at least for as long as the dignitary becomes a regular traveller of Madani Qafilahs and also makes others travel with the Madani Qafilahs as well. He himself, by becoming a part of Masjid filling movement, starts good deeds and propagates call to righteousness to others. He starts acting upon

Madani In’amaat himself as well and persuades others also to do so. This is how one shall remain in touch with every new Islamic brother as well. Just shaking hands and talking as a formality should not be deemed enough.

Beware! The Muballigh must not have the dignitary resolve his personal issues. He must not request the dignitary to help him get a job, assist him in his business or lend him money etc. Rather, he should keep making individual efforts for him (dignitary) to travel with the Madani Qafilah and attend the Ijtima’ [congregation] etc.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Trying to reform wicked people, i.e. calling them towards righteousness and forbidding them from evil, is not a new or an ordinary task, rather, this is that great act which has duly been performed by the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام very well. Thereafter, when the chain of Nubuwwah came to an end, the blessed ardent companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were given this noble responsibility.

Overwhelmed with the passion of reforming the Ummah, when these sacred personalities started the Madani activity of calling people to righteousness, then they were not welcomed with the shower of rose petals and floral garlands. Rather, in return for this favour, they were severely oppressed, tortured by being imprisoned and even their body skins were ripped off. They were dragged on blazing sand; arrows, swords and spears were pierced into their bodies, to the extent that these sacred people did not even care about their lives in the way of Allah Almighty and many of them also embraced martyrdom. In short, the glorious manner in which these Allah-loving people continued the Madani activity of reforming people is indeed matchless.

Whereas, today things are totally different; people show great respect to the preachers. Despite this fact, the state of our laziness is such that various evils are in full swing around us and in our neighbourhood. We do get a lot of opportunities to convey the call towards righteousness but alas! Seeing people involved in sins and despite having the ability and power to reform

them, we remain heedless of reforming them due to our sheer laziness and shyness and remain engaged in our own reformation only.

Remember! Despite having ability and power, turning away from neighbours and other people indulged in sins by not reforming them is truly a cause of serious loss. In this relation, let us listen to a heart-trembling narration and make our mind to call people towards righteousness.

Harm of not stopping neighbour from sin

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘It is written in the blessed Torah that the one whose neighbour indulges in sins and he does not prevent him (despite having the power and ability to do so) is also involved in that sin.’ (Az-Zuhd lil-Imam Ahmad, pp. 134, Raqm 527)

A deaf with cut ears

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘If anyone hears that so-and-so has committed a sin and then does not prevent the sinner (despite having the power to do so) will be raised as a deaf with his ears cut off on the Day of Judgement. (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 236)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Along with other righteous activities, our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were also enriched with the Madani passion of reforming the Ummah. Their hearts would always remain restless to reform the Ummah. Their way of reformation was full of emotions and compassion. If someone sought advice from them while walking on the way or even during traveling, then these sacred personalities would not delay and instantly bless them with the “Madani pearls of reformation” with sincerity then and there while shedding tears and overcoming with the fear of Allah Almighty. While mentioning those Madani pearls, not only would they start shedding tears but those who would listen to them would also be overtaken with an emotional state. Let us listen to an admonitory parable and gather Madani pearls from it.

Cried out of fear of Allah Almighty while conveying the call to righteousness

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Bashshaar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Imam Abu Yusuf Fasawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and I were going to Syria. A person came in front of him, said Salam and humbly said, ‘O Abu Yusuf! Give me some advice.’ Listening to it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wept and said (while conveying the call to righteousness), ‘O brother! Undoubtedly, the quick passing of days and nights indicate that your body is weakening, your age is ending and every moment, your death is fast approaching. Therefore, o my brother! You must not be satisfied unless you have known for sure that you would have a good end and whether you would enter Paradise or مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Hell is your abode; and whether Allah Almighty is pleased with you because of His grace and mercy or is displeased with you because of your sins and heedlessness. O, weak man! Do not forget what you actually are. You were an impure droplet in the beginning and would be a rotten corpse in the end. If you are unable to realise the depth of my advice now, then you will soon realise it when you would be buried in your grave. One will be embarrassed by his sins there but it will be of no use.’

Saying this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه began to weep and the advice-seeking person also began to cry. The narrator goes onto say that seeing them both weeping made me weep as well, to the extent that they both fell unconscious.

(Zamm-ul-Hawa, pp. 437; summarised)

Dear Islamic brothers! The abovementioned parable contains many Madani pearls of advice for us. For example, when a preacher gets the privilege to try to reform the Muslims individually or collectively, he should not regard himself as a pious and ascetic person requiring no more reform at all. Rather, whatever he says, he should address it to himself thinking that in fact, this piece of advice is for me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Enriched with the blessings of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is constantly striving to reform the Ummah. Acting upon this great Sunnah, some preachers associated with this movement try to reform strayed people by calling them towards righteousness with extreme humility and tearful eyes. Undoubtedly,

this is through the collective and individual efforts of the sincere preachers like them that today, Sunnahs have prevailed in our society.

Those who were drifting into the darkness of disbelief, who were heretics (people with corrupt beliefs), who were disobedient to their parents, who were fashion lovers, who were passionate about music and singing, who were indulged in Haraam acts and carnal love; in short, they were severely submerged into various sins, but when the sincere preachers of Dawat-e-Islami called them towards righteousness drawing their attention towards the contemplation of Hereafter whilst being overcome with the fear of Allah Almighty, then the same very people became soft-hearted, associated themselves with Dawat-e-Islami and began to propagate Sunnahs. Therefore, we should also mentally prepare ourselves to take part in this great noble cause.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The noble act of calling Muslims towards righteousness in order to reform them is such a great action that Allah Almighty has also praised such people in the Glorious Quran who perform this important obligation. Therefore, it is stated in part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah no. 33:

وَ مَنْ اَحْسَنُ قَوْلًا مِّمَّنْ دَعَاۤ اِلَى اللّٰهِ وَ عَمِلَ صَالِحًا وَّ قَالَ اِنَّنِیْ مِنَ الْمُسْلِمِیْنَ(۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whose speech is better than him who calls towards his Lord and does righteous deeds, and says, ‘I am a Muslim’?

(Part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah 33)

Commenting on the foregoing Ayah, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: In this (calling towards righteousness), the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best. By his sake, blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and scholars, even Muazzins (i.e. those who call towards Salah), those who say Takbeer, and every believer who calls the creation of Allah Almighty towards any righteousness are also included in the aforementioned Ayah. So we have come to know that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves the speech of the one who calls towards righteousness, even if he does so in simple words and has a rough voice. (Tafseer Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 766)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! O fortunate Islamic brothers who deliver Sunnah-inspiring reformative Bayans! O the ones who attain the privilege of delivering Madani Dars! O devotees of Rasool who call people towards righteousness by performing 5 daily Madani activities, 5 weekly Madani activities and 2 monthly Madani activities! Rejoice upon the mercy of Allah Almighty as Allah Almighty loves the speech of the one who calls people towards righteousness. Do not lose heart whether anybody teases you, taunts you, makes fun of you or passes any type of comments. Rather, remember the inflictions and persecutions caused to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Taif. Remember, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presented call towards righteousness despite tying stones to his blessed belly due to starvation, being severely opposed and facing various kinds of false accusations. May Allah Almighty grant us Taufeeq (ability) to abundantly preach call towards righteousness with passion and enthusiasm.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reformation of the one performing ablution [Wudu]

A pious saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was passing through an area in Baghdad. He saw a young man who was not performing ablution in an appropriate manner. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه explained him in an extremely affectionate manner, ‘O young man! Perform ablution correctly. May Allah Almighty bestow favour upon you in this world and the Hereafter!’ Saying this, the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went away. After the ablution, the young man who was very impressed by the call to righteousness conveyed to him very politely by the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, went to him and sought advice from him. (Conveying the call to righteousness) the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him three Madani pearls of advice:

1. Be aware that the one who gained the Ma’rifah [i.e. true recognition] of Allah Almighty will gain salvation.

2. One who feared Allah Almighty in terms of his religion is protected from destructiveness.

3. One who adopts asceticism [i.e. disinterest] in the world will feast his eyes on the reward granted to him by Allah Almighty on the Day of Judgement.

(The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then said), ‘Should I not tell you more?’ The young man replied, ‘Please do tell me.’ The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Anyone having three characteristics has perfected his faith:

1. One who enjoins good and also acts accordingly.

2. One who forbids evil and also refrains from it.

3. One who protects Divinely-declared bounds (i.e. carries out the commandments of Shari’ah and refrains from Shari’ah-prohibited deeds).

The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said, ‘Should I tell you something more?’ The young man replied, ‘Why not? Please do tell me.’ The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Get uninterested in the world and develop an interest in the Hereafter. Adopt truthfulness with Allah Almighty in every matter of yours. You will gain salvation with other salvation-gaining individuals.’ Saying this, the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went away. When the young man enquired about the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he was told that the saint was Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 45, summarised)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that how affectionately the leader of millions of Shaafi’i Muslims, Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made the individual effort. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reformed a young man who was not performing ablution properly as well as conveyed the call to righteousness to him. If only! We also succeed in following his footsteps. If we ever see someone making mistakes in Wudu, being lazy in offering Salah or committing sins such as lying, backbiting, tale-telling; then we should try to prevent him from committing these sins rather than committing backbiting and criticising him in his absence without a reason. We should advise him very affectionately and politely, and gain the treasure of rich reward in the afterlife. If we advise someone sincerely, then it will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ certainly be beneficial. And why wouldn’t it be beneficial as Allah Almighty has

announced in the Glorious Quran that advice produces benefit. Therefore, it is stated in the 55 th Ayah of Surah Az-Zariyaat, part 27:

وَ ذَكِّرْ فَاِنَّ الذِّكْرٰى تَنْفَعُ الْمُؤْمِنِیْنَ(۵۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And advise, that advising benefits the Muslims. (Part 27, Surah Az-Zariyaat, Ayah 55)

Let’s make an intention that if we see someone indulged in sin, we will try to reform him politely اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Along with reforming others, we will also try to reform ourselves اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By making individual efforts upon our household, we will develop a Madani environment in our home اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

In order to develop Madani environment in your home, adopt 19 Madani pearls bestowed by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . You can find these Madani pearls on page no. 29 of the booklet ‘72 Madani In’amaat’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی devoted their lives in trying to reform Muslims. Some accomplished the sacred task of reforming Muslims through their effective pieces of writings, some through their inspirational speeches, and some through both.

Try to comprehend it in this way that these blessed people are like spiritual physicians. Their righteous gatherings are like clinics for which no token is required, nor is there any long queue and nor is there any fee etc. Rather, they have a unique system. When the people, misled by the darkness of disbelief and wrongdoings, come in the spiritual clinics of these blessed saints, then they are immediately granted Madani pearls extracted from the Quranic Ayahs, Tafaseer, Ahadees, interpretations, admonitory accounts etc. Being impressed through these Madani pearls, non-Muslims embrace Islam

whereas countless sinful people attain the privilege of repenting. In this relation, let us listen to a faith-enlightening parable.

Strange event of ‘Utbah

It is stated on page no. 67 of the book Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: (Before his repentance), ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam was famously known as a drunkard and transgressor. One day, he attended the gathering of Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who at that time was mentioning the commentary of the following blessed Ayah:

اَلَمْ یَاْنِ لِلَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَنْ تَخْشَعَ قُلُوْبُهُمْ لِذِكْرِ اللّٰهِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Has the time not come for the believers to humble their hearts to Allah’s remembrance. (Part 27, Surah Al-Hadeed, Ayah 16)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه delivered such effective and heart-touching Tafseer of this Ayah that attendees were moved to tears. Standing up, a young man said, ‘O believer! Will Allah Almighty also accept the repentance of a grave sinner like me if I repent?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Yes. Allah Almighty will also forgive your sins.’ When ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam heard this, he began to scream with his body trembling and face turning pale. Then, he fell unconscious. After he regained consciousness, Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه approached him and recited the following couplets (whose translation is as follows):

1. O young man who has disobeyed Allah Almighty! Do you know what is the punishment for disobedience?

2. For disobedient people, there is Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, there will be severe wrath of Allah Almighty for them.

3. If you are satisfied upon the fire of Hell, then indeed keep committing sins. Otherwise, give up sins.

4. In exchange for your sins, you have pawned your life. Now strive to liberate it.

‘Utbah screamed again and fell unconscious. After he recovered, he asked, ‘O Shaykh! Will the Merciful Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept the repentance of a despicable person like me?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘The forgiving Lord Almighty accepts the repentance of an oppressor.’ At that time, ‘Utbah raised his head and made three Du’as:

1. O Allah Almighty! If You have forgiven my sins and accepted my repentance, then bestow upon me such a high level of intellect and memory that I never neglect whatever Islamic knowledge and Holy Quran I hear.

2. O Allah Almighty! Bless me with such a pleasant voice which turns even a hard heart into a soft one.

3. O Allah Almighty! Bless me with Halal sustenance by such means which I cannot even think about.

Allah Almighty accepted all three Du’as of ‘Utbah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with a very strong memory and wisdom. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the Holy Quran, sinners would repent by listening to his recitation. Every day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would get a bowl of gravy and two loaves of bread (from Halal sustenance) at his home. No one knew who brings these things and this practice continued his entire life. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 67)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard what a wonderful way of conveying the call to righteousness Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had. How beautifully he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fulfilled the obligation of reforming the creation of Allah Almighty. Through his saintly insight, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه enlightened the heart of a sinner. Moreover, Allah Almighty not only bestowed upon Sayyiduna ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه a status of sainthood but also conferred incredible rewards and favours on him before his demise.

The abovementioned parable contains a lot of Madani pearls especially for those preachers who say that we did deliver Bayan but it had no impact upon

the listeners; no one appeared ready to travel with Madani Qafilah; no one got his name written down with the intention of travelling with Madani Qafilah; Islamic brothers of this area are very hard-hearted; nothing softens their hearts, etc. Remember! Only such a person will make these types of statements who considers himself to be needless of any reform.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه says, ‘If there is no impact of Dars-o-Bayan upon the people, then instead of assuming others to be hard-hearted, consider it your own lack of sincerity and perform Istighfar [repentance].’

Our job is only to convey the call to righteousness in an appropriate manner to other Islamic brothers through making individual efforts. It is Allah Almighty Who grants them with the privilege of acting upon it. Therefore, do not lose your heart over witnessing no outcome out of your efforts, but rather, deem it the lack of your sincerity and continue your individual efforts seeking the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Moreover, keep making Du’a to Allah Almighty.

Along with this, ponder over the fact that having been disappointed, are we making Satan’s vicious plan successful? Have we ever given up worldly efforts completely as well over the failures of pursuit in worldly gains? If not, then control yourself, overcome your disappointment and resume your individual efforts. If only we all develop this mindset. Moreover, being overwhelmed with the devotion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and fear of Allah Almighty, may we become such preachers that listening to our Bayan, people observe reform in their lives, Masajid enliven and the sins being committed extensively come to an end.

It is the blessing of the sincerity of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه that the words he speaks are highly motivational and spellbinding which cause people to feel remorse over their past sins and they attain the privilege to seek repentance. They are blessed with consistency in offering Salah; they become passionate for carrying out good deeds and develop a mindset to travel with Madani Qafilah.

He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه faced many hardships and challenges before and after starting the Madani movement for the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, but he did not lose courage. Rather, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is even stood firmly today and propagating the message of Islam in an excellent manner. Let us listen to the brief introduction of religious services of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat:

Religious services of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

The concrete proof of the historic and remarkable achievements of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is that whatever department was required to be established for Madani activities, he went ahead to establish it. Today, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Madani activities are ongoing in more or less 105 departments.

For example, for the construction of Masajid, ‘Khuddam-ul-Masajid’ is formed. To enlighten Madani children with the luminosity of the Holy Quran, ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat)’ is formed. In order to provide children with worldly education along with religious education and upbringing, ‘Daar-ul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat)’ is formed. In order to enrich adult Islamic brothers with the teachings of the Holy Quran, ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan’ is formed and for adult Islamic sisters, ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat’ is formed. For Shar’i guidance, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ is formed. For making Islamic scholars, ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat)’ is formed. For the propagation of the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and for providing reformative books, ‘Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ is formed.

In order to convey the Madani message across the globe, ‘Madani Channel’ is formed. For spiritual cure and to reply to the thousands of letters and e-mails that come from across the globe on monthly basis, ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah’ is formed. In order to spread the call towards righteousness among Islamic sisters, separate departments are established for them. For making Muslims practice the Islamic teachings, ‘the gift of Madani In’amaat’ has been given. For trying to reform the people of the entire world, thousands of ‘Madani Qafilahs and hundreds of Ijtima’aat [congregations]’

are held in various countries. Hundreds and thousands of devotees of Awliya and Ghaus-e-A’zam gather in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs. Similarly, Majlis ‘Special Islamic brothers’ has been established for special Islamic brothers (mute, deaf and blind Islamic brothers). Moreover, ‘different level Mushawarats’ have also been formed.

After establishing all these departments serving the blessed Sunnah, the whole system has been handed over to Markazi Majlis-e-Shura. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه appointed his beloved son, Al-Haaj Abu Usayd Ubayd Raza Attari Madani دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه as his successor and also provided him with Madani Tarbiyyah [edified him] to take the Madani activities forward along with the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami. From time to time, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه also reviews the progress of the Madani activities and also blesses with the pearls of reformation where required. Other than this, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه through writing books, booklets and conducting Madani Muzakarahs also strives immensely to make the Muslim Ummah tread on the path of Sunnah. Out of his literary efforts, one remarkable effort is the book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’. In this book, Ameer-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned various priceless Madani pearls regarding the need of calling people towards righteousness, the excellence of calling people towards righteousness and harm of giving up call towards righteousness. This book is a chapter of the 2 nd volume of ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’. This book is suggested for Madani Dars. Buy this book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Read it yourself and encourage your friends to read it as well. It can also be read online from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net . Moreover, it can be downloaded and printed out as well.

In addition to these religious services of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, his steadfastness upon worship which include being punctual on Faraaid; offering Nawafil such as Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen; persistently keeping Nafl [supererogatory] Siyam mostly throughout the year; recitation of the Holy Quran and acting upon Sunnahs and Mustahabbat [preferable actions] is exemplary.

Due to these very attributes, efforts and great passion of his for the well-being of Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the devotees of Rasool remember him in the following way:

Hayn Shari’at aur Tareeqat ki haseen tasweer jo

Zuhd-o-taqwa kay nazaray hazrat-e-‘Attar hayn

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! We just heard about the religious services of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Listening to it would have also driven our hearts to convey the call to righteousness and serve Islam, or it would have increased our passion to increase it [conveying call to righteousness] to a greater degree. In order to increase this Madani passion further, let us also associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and take part practically in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah along with persuading others also to do so.

One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also ‘the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. The Du’as made in the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat are answered as these Ijtima’aat consist of the recitation of the Glorious Quran, Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring reformative speech, Zikr of Allah Almighty, heart-rendering Du’a and Salat-o-Salam. Seerah of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی is mentioned. Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘ عِنۡدَ ذِكۡرِ الصّٰلِحِيۡنَ تَنَزَّلُ الرَّحۡـمَةُ ’ i.e. mercy descends at the time of Zikr of the pious people .

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Hadees 10750)

When mercy descends during the Zikr of the pious people, then how can mercy not descend where the blessed Zikr of Allah Almighty and His Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done? Moreover, the place where mercy is down pouring, why would Du’as not be accepted there? For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable of attending the weekly Ijtima’ and make an intention of attending the Ijtima’ regularly.

Repentance of a joker

An Islamic brother from Markaz-ul-Awliya Lahore was an irresponsible and careless person. He was lost in sins and heedlessness. He used to produce tunes from tapping lunch boxes and was famous in his family for singing childish songs and mimicking others. It was his habit to make jokes, sing songs, dance on weddings, and to make people laugh while doing silly things.

At the time when he was in school, an Islamic brother wearing ‘Imamah Shareef [blessed turban] used to visit his elder brother frequently. One day, his elder brother introduced him to the brother with ‘Imamah Shareef and he invited him to attend Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Upon his invitation, he attended the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ [congregation]. He liked it very much. Therefore, he started attending the Ijtima’ regularly.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Due to the blessings of the Ijtima’, he started offering Salah regularly. He gradually adorned his head with the ‘Imamah Shareef too . Upon seeing the ‘Imamah, some of his family members strongly opposed him. To the extent that at times, they would مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ even forcefully pull the ‘ Imamah off from his head. He used to be stopped from giving Dars, and when he kept Zulfayn [hair according to Sunna h], they forcibly cut his hair. His beard had not grown yet but he had intended to keep a fistful beard.

Despite all these challenges, the attraction of Madani environment was such that he kept drawing closer to Dawat-e-Islami. Listening to the cassettes of speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah gave him strength and patience. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani environment also gradually prevailed in his home too.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! As much as conveying call towards righteousness is important amongst Muslims today has perhaps never been as important before; because today, the majority of Muslims are far away from being a practicing Muslim. While drawing people’s attention towards the fast-spreading evils in the society, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه bestows Madani pearls to people even in Madani Muzakarah for igniting the passion amongst the Muslim Ummah for calling people towards righteousness. Carrying out virtuous deeds has become extremely difficult for Nafs whereas committing sins has become extremely easy. Crowded cinemas, stage drama theatres and desolated Masajid are in a way shaking up those who have a devotion to Islam indicating that Sada-e-Madinah should be called out at those places too. Madani Daurah [area visit] is also needed at those places. The devotees of Ghaus-e-A’zam at those places also need to be taught the teachings of the Holy Quran through Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan. Chowk Dars should also be delivered in those streets. If only the blessings of Madani In’amaat could also prevail in those areas. Madani Qafilahs should also travel in such and such area/village/city.

Unfortunately! Those misusing mobile and internet seem to have come out of the fold of decency and modesty. The excessive struggles of meeting the needs and seeking comforts have made the majority of Muslims sheer heedless of Fikr-e-Aakhirat (contemplating on the Hereafter). Ponder over the fact that people are indulged in the deeds leading to Hell; who will persuade them into carrying out noble deeds leading to Paradise? We ourselves have to make efforts to try to reform one another. We have to increase the yearning for calling others towards righteousness. Therefore, become habitual of making individual efforts because individual effort carries a vital role in conveying call towards righteousness.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of the noble act of individual efforts, we would receive numerous blessings of this world and the Hereafter too. For persuasion, let us listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and try to develop the passion of making individual efforts in ourselves:

Three sayings of the Holy Rasool pertaining to the persuasion of calling towards righteousness

1. By Allah Almighty! If Allah Almighty blesses even a single person with guidance through you, then this is better for you than red camels .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1311, Hadees 2406)

2. One guiding to any virtue has a reward similar to that of its doer.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1050, Hadees 1893)

3. One inviting towards Hidayah [i.e. guidance] and goodness will be granted reward equal to all those who follow it [i.e. that guidance and goodness]. And this will cause no reduction in their reward. And one inviting towards ignorance will have sins equal to the sins of all the people following that ignorance. And this will cause no reduction in their sins. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1438, Hadees 2674)

Renowned commentator, the great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: If one hundred thousand people start offering Salah by the virtue of someone’s preaching, then the preacher will reap the reward of one hundred thousand Salah at the time of every Salah, and those Salah-offering people will get the reward of their own Salah. This shows that the reward of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is beyond the imagination of the creation. Allah Almighty has stated:

وَ اِنَّ لَكَ لَاَجْرًا غَیْرَ مَمْنُوْنٍۚ(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And definitely for you is an everlasting reward. (Part 29, Surah Al-Qalam, Ayah 3)

Similarly, those book writers whose books are a source of guidance for people will also continue to receive the rewards of hundreds of thousands [of virtues] till the Judgement Day. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 160)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is learned that whether the call to righteousness is conveyed individually or collectively, it brings numerous worldly and religious blessings for the ones who convey it and act upon it after listening to it. Therefore, develop a strong desire and yearning for good deeds. Become more active in motivating others to become Salah-offering individuals. Every time you go to Masjid for congregational Salah, persuade others and take them along with you. Teach Salah to those who do not know how to offer it correctly. If even a single person starts offering Salah due to our individual efforts, then we will receive the reward of every Salah he offers.

Join Dawat-e-Islami’s Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) which are usually held in different Masajid after Salat-ul-‘Isha for more or less 41 minutes. Learn Holy Quran yourself and persuade others to learn also. If anyone learns the Holy Quran from us, we will also gain reward every time he recites it. Act upon Sunnahs yourself and motivate others to do so too. If we teach a Sunnah to anyone, we will also gain its reward every time he acts upon it اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Majlis Haftah-war Ijtima’

Become a “machine” of making Muslims “pious” by reforming yourself and others through Madani Daurahs (Madani visits) and travelling with the Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilahs, and remain associated with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e- Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e- Islami, is spreading the call towards righteousness in more or less 105 departments throughout the world. Out of them, one department is “Majlis Haftah-war Ijtima” (Majlis weekly congregation). This Majlis normally consists of 3 to 5 members. Following are the responsibilities of this Majlis:

٭ Making the Jadwal [schedule] of the Qaari, Na’at Khuwan and Muballigh.

٭ Informing relevant Zimmahdar at least 7 days in advance regarding his Tilawat, Na’at and Bayan.

٭ Keeping in view the security measures, appointing security guards at the Ijtima’ venue, especially at the entrances.

٭ Making appropriate arrangements for microphones, speakers, lights, generators, UPS etc.

٭ Ensuring water supply etc., to toilet and Wudu facilities.

٭ Taking care of the cleanliness of Masjid and the Ijtima’ venue.

٭ Laying down carpets and mats and folding them up after the Ijtima’.

٭ Politely persuading Islamic brothers to sit in the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ who are engaged in conversations on stalls, ablution areas and other places.

٭ Making appropriate drinking-water arrangements where required.

٭ Ensuring the supply of Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s books to the stalls and keeping an eye so that selling of non-Shar’i and immoral literature is not done on it.

٭ Keeping an eye on the food stalls in case they sell under quality food items.

٭ Making parking arrangements for the Islamic brothers coming to the Ijtima’ in cars.

٭ Placing shoes in an organised manner in the shoe racks.

٭ Allocating a place for every stall. If possible, displaying a panaflex banner or board etc.

May Allah Almighty bless the “ Majlis Haftah-war Ijtima ” with further progression.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring

Dear Islamic brothers! Bringing the Bayan towards the end, let’s listen to some Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ It is Haraam for a man to wear a gold ring. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade wearing a gold ring. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 67, Hadees 6385)

٭ It is Haraam to make a Na-Baaligh [prepubescent] boy wear gold or silver jewellery. One who makes him wear it, will become a sinner. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 468; Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 598)

٭ Iron ring is the jewellery of the Hell dwellers.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 305, Hadees 1792)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of wearing a ring will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ ٭ ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘Ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 10 January 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring

٭ Only such ring is permissible for a man that looks like the ring of men, i.e. it contains only one gem. If it contains (more than one or many gems, then it will be impermissible for men even if it is of silver. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 597)

٭ It is impermissible to wear ring without a gem as it will not be deemed as a ring, but a Challa [plain ring without a stone]. If any Islamic brother is wearing a metallic bracelet, Challa, impermissible ring or chain, then take it off straightaway and repent, and vow not to wear it again.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for repenting sincerely when one has committed a sin

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a to be recited at the time of “ repenting sincerely ” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ مَغْفِرَ تُکَ اَ وْسَعُ مِنْ ذُ نُوْ بِیْ وَ رَحْمَتُکَ اَرْجٰی عِنْدِیْ مِنْ عَمَلِیْ

Translation: O Allah Almighty! Your forgiveness is greater than my sins. And I am more hopeful of your mercy compared to my actions.

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 238, Hadees 2038)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

