اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Good Environment

Along with conditions of friendship

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed

an angel to my grave who has been granted the power of hearing the voice of every creature. Hence, whosoever, until the Day of Judgement, recites Salat upon me, [the angel] presents that person’s name along with his father’s name to me. The angel says, ‘The so-and-so son of the so-and-so person has recited Salat upon you.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 251, Hadees 17291)

نظر کا نُور، دلوں کیلئے قَرار دُرُود عَقِیدتوں کا چَمن، رُوح کا نِکھار دُرُود

چراغِ یاسِ مُسلسل کے گُھپ اَندھیروں میں غَموں کی دُھوپ میں ہے ابرِ سایہ دار دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have millions of favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our everyday life by virtue of which we live our life. One of them is ‘Good Environment and Good Society’ in which a Muslim tries to live his life as per the commandments of Islam. Let’s have the privilege to listen to something about this great favour.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Heart completely changed

Sayyiduna Hasan Bin Hadar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A person from Baghdad told me that Sayyiduna Abu Haashim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Once I intended to visit Basra and reached the shore so that I could catch a boat and set out for the destination. When I reached there, I saw a boat in which a maidservant and his master were on board. I also wanted to get on the boat, but the master of the maidservant said, ‘No one except us will sit in this boat; we have hired the whole boat, therefore you take some other boat.’ Having heard this, the maidservant said to her master, ‘Let this poor man get into the boat.’ As a result, the master of the maidservant allowed me to get into it and the boat started heading towards Basra. The weather was very pleasant. I was sitting separately from them in a corner and they were busy chatting and enjoying the beautiful weather. Then the master of the maidservant asked for food and a dining mat was laid out. When they both sat for eating the meal, they called me, ‘O poor man! You also come and have a meal with us.’ I was very hungry and had nothing to eat so I joined them at their invitation. When we

finished the meal, that person asked for wine from his maidservant. The maidservant brought immediately the wine and he started drinking it. He then ordered a wine for me, I said, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you, I am your guest and I have had meal with you, now I will not drink wine at all.’ He replied, ‘Well, as you wish.’ Under the influence of the wine, he asked his maidservant to bring Sarangi (a stringed instrument of India played with a bow) and sing him a song. The maidservant brought musical instrument and started singing a song. Her master kept listening to the song and rejoicing.

It continued for a long time; they both were intoxicated with the pleasure and I was busy with the Zikr of my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After a long time when his intoxication subsided, he turned to me and started saying: ‘Have you ever listened to a song better than this? Look, how beautifully she has sung the song! Can you sing in this manner?’ I replied, ‘I can recite such a Kalam for you before which this song has no worth.’ He surprisingly asked: ‘Is there any Kalam better than songs?’ I replied in the affirmative and said: ‘There is a Kalam much better than this song.’ He said, ‘If your claim is true then recite it for us. We also want to listen to the Kalam that is even better than songs?’ So I started reciting the following blessed Ayahs of Surah At-Takweer, part 30:

اِذَا الشَّمْسُ كُوِّرَتْﭪ(۱) وَ اِذَا النُّجُوْمُ انْكَدَرَتْﭪ(۲) وَ اِذَا الْجِبَالُ سُیِّرَتْﭪ(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When the sunlight is rolled up and when the stars fall down and when the mountains are driven.

(Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 1 to 3)

I kept reciting the Holy Quran and his condition kept changing. He started crying and kept listening to the Holy Quran with undivided attention and humbleness. It seemed as if the Tajalliyat of Divine Kalam had illuminated his dark heart and this Kalam had greatly affected his heart. Now he was becoming acquainted with the pleasure of Divine love. Reciting the Holy Quran when I reached the following blessed Ayah:

وَ اِذَا الصُّحُفُ نُشِرَتْﭪ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when the Records of Account are laid bare. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 10)

He said to his maidservant, ‘I free you for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ then he poured all the containers of wine into the sea, broke all musical instruments and things of amusement and humbly came close to me, hugged me and started sobbing and asked: ‘O my brother! I am very sinful; I have spent my entire life in committing sins; if I repent now, will Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept my repentance?’ I treated him with love and replied, ‘Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much those who repent and attain purity; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very pleased with those who repent; no one returns empty-handed from the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . You repent from Him, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will surely accept [your repentance].

So that person repented of all of his past sins in front of me and kept on seeking forgiveness abundantly in tears. We then reached Basra and became friend for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . For forty years, we lived like brothers. After forty years he passed away, I was very grieved over his demise. Then, one night I saw him in my dream, I asked, ‘O my brother! What happened to you after departing this life and where is your abode?’ He replied in a very sweet voice, ‘My Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent me to Paradise after I had left the world.’ I asked, ‘O my brother! For what deed have you been blessed with Paradise?’ He replied, ‘When you recited this blessed Ayah for me,

وَ اِذَا الصُّحُفُ نُشِرَتْﭪ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when the Records of Account are laid bare. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 10)

by virtue of its blessing transformation took place in my life and by virtue of it I have been forgiven and Paradise has been bestowed upon me.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 305)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how a blessed company of a righteous person prevented a person, who used to take pleasure in committing sins, from committing sins and thus he started performing virtuous deeds after repenting of his sinful life. He had realized that his salvation was in the blessed company and companionship of that righteous person. He became the friend of the same righteous person for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that by its blessing the rest of his days could be safe from the curse of sins. Finally, this person who had the good company for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accomplished his aim and departed this life by staying safe from sins and protecting his Iman [faith].

خوب خدمت سُنّتوں کی ہم سدا کرتے رہیں

مدنی ماحول اے خدا ہم سے نہ چھُوٹے عمر بھر

Recognizing good environment

Dear Islamic brothers! This world is divided into races, colours, different kinds of civilizations and classes. Every person from every class, civilization, colour and race considers himself to be the best person of the society and beats the drum for his own eminence and superiority, but remember, the best society and a good environment are the ones which are based on fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, piety, virtue and abstinence, in which people love one another for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and take care of one another’s rights and those who belong to them are the people of good character. If someone has their company, he becomes like them. Surely wise is he who recognizes such a good environment and becomes its part and leads a pure life like the other people of this environment.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is a great blessing for us. It is not hidden from anyone that by virtue of the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, countless people, who deviated from the straight path, have become the embodiment of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A large number of people are aware of the measures taken by Dawat-e-Islami for the reform of the society and scholarly,

practical and moral Tarbiyyat (edification) of the youth. Let’s associate ourselves with this fragrant Madani environment along with our children. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will get abundant worldly and Hereafter benefits.

Advantages of good environment

Remember! The person who adopts good environment not only gains its benefits himself, but he also benefits others. It can be understood by this example that a bee instead of having filthy and dirty environment like other flies has good environment; it has the company of fruits and flowers in a garden. As a result, honey is produced which brings countless benefits. In Ayah 69 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یَخْرُ جُ مِنْۢ بُطُوْنِهَا شَرَابٌ مُّخْتَلِفٌ اَلْوَانُهٗ فِیْهِ شِفَآءٌ لِّلنَّاسِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: From their bellies comes a drink of various colours, in which is health for mankind. (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, Ayah 69)

Obviously, these are the blessings of good environment. It has become obvious that the people who are associated with good environment are not only commendable themselves, but they also benefit others and the Muslim who is more beneficial to his other Islamic brothers will attain greater status and ranks. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ خَيۡرُ النَّاسِ اَنۡفَعُهُمۡ لِلنَّاسِ ’ The best amongst people is the one who brings most benefits to them.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 222, Hadees 5787)

Dear Islamic brothers! If a person is associated with a good environment, it reforms his inside and outside both because good environment provides good company and everyone knows that a good company makes a person good too after having its influence on him. ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Roomi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

صُحبتِ صالِ ـ ح تُرا صالِ ـ ح کُنَند صُحبتِ طالِ ـ ح تُرا طالِ ـ ح کُنَند

I.e. company of good will make you good and company of bad will make you bad.

عطائے حبیبِ خدا مدنی ماحول

ہے فیضانِ غوث و رضاؔ مدنی ماحول

Though good company regardless of being brief, carries abundant benefits.

Excellence of attending Majlis of Zikr

Sahih Muslim contains a long blessed Hadees which has good news for those who form Halqah for Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make Zikr of their True Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ after gathering. In the end of this blessed Hadees, the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ فَيَقُوۡلُوۡنَ رَبِّ فِيۡهِمۡ فُلَانٌ عَبۡدٌ خَطَّاءٌ اِنَّمَا مَرَّ فَجَلَسَ مَعَهُمۡ ’ i.e., Angels humbly say (in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ): O Merciful Rab! Amongst them so-and-so [person] was a big sinner; when he passed by them (i.e. those who were making Zikr), he sat with them. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ stated, ‘ وَلَه ٗ غَفَرۡتُ هُمُ الۡقَوۡمُ لَا يَشۡقٰي بِهِمۡ جَلِيۡسُهُمۡ ’ i.e., I have also forgiven him [because] it is such a nation [of making Zikr] that the one who sits with them is not unfortunate either.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1444, Hadees 2689)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how beneficial the company of virtuous people is! If a sinful person sits with them, he does not get deprived of Divine mercy either! So when the person who has good company for a moment, does not get deprived of Divine mercy, how can the fortunate, who associate themselves with Sunnah-inspiring righteous environment forever, be deprived of Divine mercy?

Similarly, Sayyiduna Abu Razeen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Shall I not guide you through the essence

of that thing by which you get goodness of the world and the Hereafter (hence that real thing is that) you attend the gathering of those who make Zikr and when you are alone, keep moving your tongue with the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as far as you can and love in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and have enmity in the way [for the sake] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 492, Hadees 9024)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It refers to the gatherings of Islamic scholars, perfect blessed saints and righteous and pious people because these gatherings are the gardens of Paradise. It is stated in another blessed Hadees:

No matter whether these gatherings are from Madaris or the gatherings for delivering Dars of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees or the gatherings of blessed Sufiya [mystics]’s Zikr, this saying is very comprehensive and covers all. The gathering that develops fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, devotion to the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and eagerness of obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is useful. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 603)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Companionship of bad people

Dear Islamic brothers! As a matter of fact, we should associate ourselves with good environment for the good of the world and the Hereafter and have the company of righteous people and establish friendship with them, but unfortunately, the love for sins has blackened our inside. Today our condition is that we avoid good people and bear malice towards them, but after leaving their company we have the company of such people who not only keep us away from virtuous deeds, but sometimes they also make us commit abundant sins. It is very necessary to refrain from the company and friendship of such people.

Have only good company

It will be a great privilege if we have the blessed company of sincere bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotees of Rasool.

By virtue of their closeness and the blessing of calling towards righteousness presented to us from time to time by them we will get other benefits as well as our sins will also be cured, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Remember! We should only have good company and keep ourselves away from bad people. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The example of a good and bad companion is like the one who carries Musk (i.e. Kastoori) and the one who blows the bellows into furnace. The one who carries musk will either gift you or you will buy from him or you will have pleasant fragrance from him, whereas the one who blows the bellows into furnace either will burn your clothes or you will have unpleasant smell from him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1414, Hadees 2628)

Examples of immediate influences of company

Dear Islamic brothers! Every company surely has its influence. For example if you meet an Islamic brother whose eyes are filled with tears and signs of sorrow are evident on his face due to the death of his dear one, so by seeing him in this state you may also feel sad for a while. Moreover, if you sit with any such Islamic brother whose face is lighting up with pleasure due to a success, who is smiling and his blissful talk is showing gladness then you will also become happy for some time inadvertently.

Influences of good and bad company

Similarly, if someone has the company of such people who are totally heedless of Fikr-e-Aakhirat and do not feel any kind of hesitation in committing sins, so there is a strong possibility that he will also become like them very soon. If someone has the company of devotees of Rasool whose hearts are filled with Fikr-e-Madinah (contemplation of the Hereafter), who are busy all the time trying to reform themselves for the success of the Hereafter and who weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so there is a great hope that the same conditions will also influence the heart of this person, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

بُری صحبتوں سے بچا یا الٰہی بنا مجھ کو اچّھا بنا یا الٰہی

Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic brothers! You do not need to worry at all about good Madani environment. Associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. By virtue of its blessing, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ highly exalted moral virtues will keep on becoming the part of your character un-knowingly. Every Islamic brother should attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami held in their own city and travel with Madani Qafilahs in the company of devotees of Rasool for learning Sunnah.

اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of travelling with these Madani Qafilahs, we will have the opportunity to ponder over our past way of life and our heart will become restless for the betterment of the Hereafter and as a result we will feel ashamed of abundance of sins and be privileged to make repentance.

As a result of traveling continuously with Madani Qafilahs in the company of devotees of Rasool, we will have the invocations of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi on our lips instead of foul language and useless talks and our tongues will become habitual of reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Na’ats. We will get the enthusiasm or passion for gentleness in place of anger, patience and forbearance in place of impatience, humbleness and respect for a Muslim in place of arrogance.

We will get rid of the greed for worldly possessions and wealth and will attain the greed for virtuous deeds. In short, Madani reformation will take place in the life of the one who travels in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ again and again اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Islamic sisters should also regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Islamic sisters held in their own city.

Weekly Madani Halqah—One of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain the enthusiasm for virtuous deeds and get rid of sins and become the one who takes part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One out of 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Weekly Madani Halqah’ by which weekly Madani Halqah is arranged area-wise for

those who speak different languages, for personalities and for traders. Weekly Madani Halqah or Masjid Ijtima’ is held in small cities or at the places where due to some reasons weekly-Ijtima’ could not been conducted yet. The schedule of weekly-Madani Halqah includes recitation [of Holy Quran], blessed Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring speech, Du’a and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and Salam. More than one weekly Madani Halqahs can be arranged on different days and at different places in any city/area. You also help Dawat-e-Islami in promoting religious activities. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, many wrongdoers have been reformed by virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

Madani parable

An Islamic brother of Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore, Pakistan) was heavily indulged in sins. During his student life in school, an Islamic brother often used to come to meet his elder brother. One day that Islamic brother invited him to attend Weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’. He accepted it and attended the Ijtima. He felt immense spiritual pleasure and started to attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ regularly.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By its blessings he started to offer Salah regularly. Adorned his head with ‘Imamah (Islamic turban), some of his family members strongly opposed this, but the spiritual attraction of Madani environment and the most pleasing manners of the devotees of Rasool enabled him to move even closer to the Madani environment. His listening to the audio cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah served as a ray of hope and his ambition kept on growing. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, gradually a Madani environment got created in their home.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before having the company of any person we should think whether we should have his company or not because it is stated in blessed Tirmizi: A man is on the religion of his friend so he should see who he is establishing friendship with. (Tirmizi, chapter 45, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

Introduction to Majlis Nashr-o-Isha’at

Dear Islamic brothers! You also associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to have good company. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is performing the sacred duty of serving Islam in approximately 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Nashr-o-Isha’at’. Under the supervision of this Majlis, Islamic brothers, who are in the field of media i.e. print media [newspapers, magazines and booklets] and electronic media [TV, radio, internet] and associated with the Madani environment, are contacted and with their help and support new people of the concerned field can be contacted.

An effort is made to bring the Madani news of Dawat-e-Islami throughout the year with the consultation of their Nigran. For example, the topics and Madani pearls from the books and booklets issued by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, especially those of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, in relation to sacred days and months etc., are sent to different newspapers, magazines, journals and booklets. The organizational and introductory articles of Dawat-e-Islami are also published by the name of Majlis Nashr-o-Isha’at of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Farewell to the month of Ramadan

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Ramadan came to us with mercy and blessings and now it will depart soon. Alas! We could not fulfil the rights of this month. Ah! With its departure, the eagerness and enthusiasm of acts of worship will also be reduced.

تیرے آنے سے دِل خوش ہوا تھا اور ذوقِ عبادت بڑھا تھا

آہ اب دل پہ ہے غم کا غَلَبہ اَلوَدَاع اَلوَدَاع ماہِ رمضاں

Let’s valuing the rest of the blessed moments of Ramadan try to perform more virtuous deeds and make this intention too that we will try to retain the passion for worship that we have gained in the blessed month of Ramadan in the remaining 11 months of the year especially on the occasion of blessed

Eid, instead of wasting all our Ramadan efforts by committing sins we will try to spend these delightful moments as per the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Generally, people become busy shopping for Eid as soon as the moon of Eid-ul-Fitr is sighted and hence they become deprived of the blessings of the worship of the night of Eid.

Remember! There is good news of very huge reward for the one who worships in the night of Eid that we spend heedlessly. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard.

Worship performed during Eid night

1 The person who worships in the night of two Eids (i.e., night of Eid-ul-Fitr & night of Eid-ul-Adha) for gaining reward, his heart will not die on the Day when hearts [of people] will die. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 1782)

2 The one spending the following five nights worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Heaven becomes Wajib for him: the nights of the 8 th, 9 th and 10 th Zul-Hijjah (3 nights), the night of Eid-ul-Fitr and the 15th night of Sha’ban (Shab-e-Bara`at). (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 98, Hadees 2)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Siyam of 6 days of Shawwal after Eid-ul-Fitr

Dear Islamic brothers! Make this intention too that we will try to observe Nafl Siyam after Ramadan in order to gain further blessings which we have gained by observing the Siyam of blessed Ramadan. We will try our best especially to observe 6 Siyam of Shawwal. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of 6 Siyam of Shawwal:

1 One who observes Siyam in Ramadan and then observes for 6 days in Shawwal comes out of sins as if his mother has given birth to him today.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, Hadees 5102)

2 One who observes the Siyam of Ramadan and then after them observes 6 in Shawwal so it is as if he has observed Sawm for entire life. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 1164)

3 One who observes 6 Siyam (in Shawwal) after Eid-ul-Fitr, has observed the Siyam of the whole year because the one who brings one virtue will get ten. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 1715)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Tenfold reward for one virtue

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become very easy to earn the reward for Siyam of the whole year by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for the sake of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Every Muslim should have this privilege. The wisdom behind the reward for one year is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by His grace, bestows tenfold reward to his bondmen for one virtue.

In Ayah 160 of Surah Al-An’aam, part 8, it is stated:

مَنْ جَآءَ بِالْحَسَنَةِ فَلَهٗ عَشْرُ اَمْثَالِهَاۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: For one who brings one good deed, are ten like it. (Part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 160)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Hence, the Siyam of the month of Ramadan are equal to the Siyam of 10 months and six Siyam are equal to 60 Siyam (2 months). In this way, the reward for the Siyam of the whole year can be obtained, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

When should Siyam of Shash Eid be observed?

Dear Islamic brothers! In the footnote of Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is better that these Siyam be observed with gaps and

if 6 Siyam are observed consecutively after Eid, even then there is no harm. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 140)

Mufti Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qaadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: If these Siyam are observed consecutively after Eid, even then there is no harm, but it is better to observe them with gaps i.e., 2 Siyam in every week and 1 Sawm on the second day of Eid-ul-Fitr and if one observes [these Siyam] during the whole month, it seems even more suitable. (Sunni Bihishti Zaywar, pp. 347)

In short! With the exception of Eid-ul-Fitr day, Siyam of Shish Eid can be observed whenever you want during the whole month.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls for those acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever walks on a path in search of knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes the path to Paradise easy for him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1448, Hadees 2699)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever leaves his home for acquiring knowledge, he is in the path of Allah until he returns. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 295, Hadees 2656)

٭ Travelling for acquiring Islamic knowledge is a blessed practice of our pious predecessors. (40 Farameen-e-Mustafa, pp. 23)

٭ Through knowledge, human life becomes pleasant and successful, and our worldly life and the Hereafter both get better. This knowledge refers to knowledge which is obtained from the Quran and Hadees.

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 14 June 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls for those acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen

٭ Knowledge is a treasure and asking question is its key. (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 2, pp. 80, Hadees 4011)

٭ One shall not feel shy in asking question to acquire ‘Ilm-e-Deen. (A’rabi kay Suwalat aur ‘Arabi Aqa kay Jawabat, pp. 8)

٭ Flattering is not from the characteristics of a believer. However, one can use flattering in order to acquire the knowledge of Deen. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 224, Hadees 4863)

٭ One shall also refrain from asking such questions that do not have any worldly or religious benefit. (A’rabi kay Suwalat aur ‘Arabi Aqa kay Jawabat, pp. 9)

٭ Example of the one who acquires knowledge but does not impart it is like the person who gathers treasure but does not spend anything from it. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 204, Hadees 689)

٭ When one wants to ask a question from an Islamic scholar, then his [scholar’s] permission shall be sought respectfully for asking the question. (A’rabi kay Suwalat aur ‘Arabi Aqa kay Jawabat, pp. 6)

٭ One attains excessive knowledge by searching for it and gets its awareness by questioning. Therefore, learn about what you do not know and act upon the knowledge you possess. (Jaami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, vol. 1, pp. 122, Hadees 402)

٭ The best time to acquire knowledge is during the early days of one’s youth and (in terms of hours) at the time of Sahari and between Maghrib

٭ and ‘Isha. Since this is a discussion in regard to excellence, a student should always be busy acquiring the knowledge. (Rah-e-‘Ilm, pp. 73)

٭ A student should always stay away from fights and disputes which waste a lot of time. (Rah-e-‘Ilm, pp. 74)

٭ A student should be patient upon the calamities and disgraces he has to face on the path of knowledge. (Ibid, pp. 80)

٭ The more pious a student is, the more beneficial his knowledge will be. (Ibid, pp. 81)

٭ A student should always have books with him so that he can revise as soon as he is free. (Ibid, pp. 85)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for increasing knowledge

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a for increasing knowledge ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

رَبِّ زِدْنِیْ عِلْمًا(۱۱۴)

Translation:

O my Lord, bestow upon me more knowledge.

(Part 16, Surah Taahaa, Ayah 114)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

