اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Nobility of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحۡ ـ مَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever recites Salat upon me 10 times in the morning and 10 times in the evening, he shall gain my intercession on the Day of Judgement.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 163, Hadees 17022)

سب نے صَفِ مَحشر میں لَلکار دِیا ہم کو

اے بے کَسوں کے آقا اب تیری دُہائی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we will have the privilege of listening to a speech about the blessed life history of the great personality whose blessing is still being received today, though many centuries have passed. There is always a crowd of people to be found at his luminous shrine; people come and receive whatever permissible desires they make Du’a for. Who is this important personality? What is his name, lineage, appellation and his title? We will listen to all these things in today’s speech, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In addition to this, his travel for receiving education and few Madani pearls about his virtuous habits and qualities such as his Madani thought of being patient and thankful, interest in gaining Islamic knowledge and at the end of the speech, Sunan and manners of sitting will also be delivered, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It was evening and the darkness of the night began to slowly fall upon everything. A traveller in Khurasan, with no goods and only a staff in his hand wearing a thick, worn out and coarse clothing was on a journey. He reached a colony and decided to spend the night at such a place where he saw some people who apparently looked religious and were looking prosperous and without any tensions. As they saw this worried man, one of them questioned him in a harsh tone, ‘Who are you?’ Replying politely that traveller said, ‘I am a traveller and want to stay here for the night.’ They all started laughing and said looking down upon him, ‘He is not from us.’ Upon hearing this, the traveller felt happy and replied, ‘Certainly, I am not from you.’ When night fell one of them brought a dry piece of bread and placed it before him and then joined the party of his friends enjoying all sorts of delicious foods, they were busy laughing and joking with each other. They would laugh as they saw the traveller eating the dry bread and threw eaten skins of melon at him. These people kept insulting him the whole night until the morning but that young man who was patient and grateful patiently and happily endured their ill-treatment without even reacting. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 66)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to some couplets of a Manqabat written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه in the glory of this great personality:

ہو مدینے کا ٹِکٹ مجھ کو عطا داتا پیا آپ کو خواجہ پِیا کا واسِطہ داتا پیا

دو نہ دو مرضی تمہاری تم مدینے کا ٹِکٹ میں پکارے جاؤں گا داتا پِیا داتا پیا

دولتِ دنیا کا سائل بن کے میں آیا نہیں مجھ کو دیوانہ مدینے کا بنا داتا پیا

کاش میں رویا کروں عِشقِ رسولِ پاک میں سوز دو ایسا پئے احمد رضا داتا پیا

کا ش! پھر لاہور میں نیکی کی دعوت عام ہو فیض کا دریا بہا دو سرورا داتا پیا

مجھ کو داتا تاجدارانِ جہاں سے کیا غَرَض میں تو ہوں منگتا ترے دربار کا داتا پیا

جھو لیاں بھر بھر کے لے جا تے ہیں منگتے رات دن

ہو مِری اُمّید کا گلشن ہرا داتا پیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the abovementioned incident, the pious saint of elevated status who remained patient with those insults was Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Surely, it is the habit of the beloved bondsmen of Allah that they would remain patient on every affliction and thanked Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . As Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ favours His bondsmen by sending countless blessings upon them, similarly, sometimes He عَزَّوَجَلَّ puts them through tests of hardships and if they attain success, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to high ranks, bestows upon them countless worldly and Hereafter gifts and expresses this good news as well:

اِنَّ اللہَ مَعَ ا لصّٰبِرِ یۡنَ ﴿۱۵۳﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah is with those who patiently endure. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 153)

His name is ‘Ali and his father’s name is ‘Usman. His lineage is linked to Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ through six relations. (Buzurgan-e-Lahore, pp. 222) His filial appellation (Kunyah) is ‘Abul Hasan’.

(Urdu Daaira-tul-Ma’arif, vol. 9, pp. 91)

His famous title is Ganj Bakhsh. The reason for giving this name is this that Sayyiduna Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri Sanjari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه observed I’tikaf at his luminous shrine for some time and after receiving internal benefits from Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came for his farewell Fatihah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه immediately recited the following couplet:

گَنج بَخشِ فَیضِ عالَم، مَظہَرِ نُورِ خُدا

ناقِصاں را پِیرِ کامِل، کامِلاں را رَہنُما

The title given by Sayyiduna Sultan-ul-Hind Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is being echoing all over the subcontinent today. Even some people are unaware of his blessed name but only remember him by the title of ‘ Daata Ganj Bakhsh ’. (Mahfil-e-Awliya, pp. 388)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 400 AH in Ghazni. After some time his family shifted to Mahallah Hajwayr, due to this place he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is called Hajwayri.

(Urdu Daaira-tul-Ma’arif, vol. 9, pp. 91)

غم مجھے میٹھے مدینے کا عطا کر دو شہا

میرا سینہ بھی مدینہ دو بنا داتا پیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gained knowledge and Ma’rifat from many high ranking Aimmah-e-Tareeqat and Shari’at and spent the major part of his life in travels in order to meet the righteous bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, to receive blessings from their good influence and to overpower his Nafs through hardships for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled to many countries including Kirmaan, Seestan, Turkistan, Maawara-an-Nahr, Khuzestan, Tabristan, Azerbaijan, Persia, Iraq, Syria, Palestine and Hijaz Muqaddas (Makkah and Madinah).

(Urdu Daaira-tul-Ma’arif, vol. 9, pp. 94)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Islamic education at a young age. The status of his knowledge can be estimated from this incident that once in the presence of Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a discussion with a non-Muslim philosopher, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه by virtue of his scholarly competence silenced him by giving outstanding answers, though he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very young. If this discussion is supposed to be made in the last year of Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was approximately 20 years old. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob: Preface, pp. 12)

میٹھے میٹھے مصطَفٰے کی بارگاہِ پاک میں

کیجئے میری سِفارش آپ یا داتا پیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard about the deep interest of Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in gaining Islamic knowledge. For acquiring Islamic knowledge, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled to more than 10 countries including Iraq, Syria and Hijaz Muqaddas (Makkah and Madinah) and had many difficult incidents in this tough path but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه always remained as an example of patience and contentment and was grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Now just ponder, on the one hand the condition of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی was such that despite the extreme hardships they endured to learn Islamic knowledge, they would learn with devotion and hard work and would also spread the call towards righteousness among the people. On the other hand, in this age of advancement, since acquiring Islamic knowledge has become extremely easy, despite all facilities and luxuries we do not learn Islamic knowledge, we do not even have time to learn the compulsory branches of knowledge. We only learn and provide our children with knowledge of worldly benefits, so that they could get higher degrees to have a brighter future. But regretfully, we have no worry to make our Hereafter better. Remember! To seek Islamic knowledge is compulsory upon every Muslim man and woman.

It is stated in a Hadees: ‘ طَلَبُ الۡعِلۡمِ فَرِيۡضَ ةٌ عَلٰي كُلِّ مُسۡلِمٍ ’, i.e. Gaining knowledge is compulsory for every Muslim man (similarly for a Muslim woman as well).

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 146, Hadees 224)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: Regarding this blessed Hadees, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has said, (in a simple summary): The first and foremost Fard is to get knowledge of basic beliefs, which makes a person a Sunni of correct beliefs and to deny or oppose it, makes a person an unbeliever or corrupt. Thereafter, he should learn the rulings of Salah i.e. its Faraaid, prerequisites and acts which invalidate Salah, so that he

can offer Salah correctly. Then, upon the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan, he should learn the rulings of fasting, learn the rulings of Zakah if he becomes a possessor of Nisab, the rulings on Haj when he has the financial ability to undertake it, the necessary rulings on Nikah when he wants to make Nikah, the rulings on business transactions if he is a businessman, the rulings on agriculture if he is a farmer, the rulings on employment that is fixed if he wants to be employed or employ someone. وَعَلٰي هٰذَا الۡقِيَاس, and in the same manner, learning rulings is absolutely compulsory for every sane and adult Muslim man and woman according to their current state. Likewise, it is also compulsory for everyone to learn the rulings of Halal and Haraam. Furthermore, it is also compulsory for every Muslim to learn the internal rulings i.e. Faraaid-e-Qalbiyyah (internal Faraaid) such as humbleness, sincerity and absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ etc. and the method of attaining them. It is also one of the important Faraaid of Muslims to learn the rulings on internal sins, i.e. arrogance, ostentation, envy etc. and their cures.

(Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 342)

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt that the act of not gaining basic Islamic knowledge may bring about disaster in the Hereafter because if somebody does not have basic information about Salah, Fasting, Hajj, Zakah, Nikah, commerce/trade, labour and in other matters, then certainly Shar’i mistakes will be made in these activities which may lead to accountability in the Hereafter. Therefore, considering these valuable moments sufficient make your efforts to learn Islamic knowledge and associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will make our minds of acting upon the Sunnah regularly, protect us from sins and will give us a mind-set of pondering over the Hereafter.

گو ذلیل وخوار ہوں پاپی ہوں میں بدکار ہوں آپ کا ہوں آپ کا ہوں آپ کا داتا پیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! To call towards righteousness and forbid from evil is such a great deed that for its accomplishment Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, from time to time, sent His Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام to this world. Even the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to this world for this great purpose. After the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the same task of presenting the call towards righteousness to Ummah and their training was taken over by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who were directly trained by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

After the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی brightened the hearts of the people with the luminosity of Islamic teachings in every age. Sayyiduna Daata Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also made this aim his habit and arrived in Markaz-e-Awliya (Lahore) to accomplish this important duty of calling towards righteousness. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه showed such qualities of knowledge and philosophy that the city which was drowned in the darkness of unbelief and polytheism, became a fort of Islam by the efforts of Sayyiduna Daata Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . By virtue of his good manners, good character and politeness many people had profound love for him in their hearts. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed in Markaz-e-Awliya for approximately 30 years.

(Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 468)

During this period of time, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became occupied with preaching Islam day and night. His perfect character, outstanding conversation, luminous personality and sayings that touch the hearts took people out of polytheism and immorality and put them on the path of guidance. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه laid the foundation stone for a Masjid near his residence in Markaz-e-Awliya (Lahore).

During the construction of this Masjid, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself worked like the labourers and contributed his part in the construction of this Masjid with great love and enthusiasm. It was the first Masjid in Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore) city which was constructed by a saint. (Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 469)

Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه served the religion with great love throughout his life, he gave the message of peace to those who were depressed

and fulfilled religious and worldly needs of his disciples and true lovers. Even today, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه still fulfils the needs of his devotees from his luminous shrine, removes their worries and blesses whoever he wants with his spiritual (Fayzan) blessings.

میں ہوں عصیاں کا مریض اور تم طبیبِ عاصِیاں

ہو عطا مجھ کو گناہوں کی دوا داتا پیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! By the blessings of visiting the shrines of the saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Du’as are answered, difficulties are removed. Visiting the shrines of saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی for this purpose has also been the manner of our pious predecessors. It was the routine of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he would visit the shrines of pious saints. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recorded many incidents related to visiting shrines in his famous book ‘ Kashf-ul-Mahjoob ’. Let’s listen to some of them:

1. Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: During the journey to Syria, I visited the sacred tomb of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the blessed Muazzin of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I fell asleep there, and found myself in Makkah Mukarramah, here I saw the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the door of the tribe of ‘Bani Shaybah’ kindly holding an elderly man as a child is held in the hands, out of my overwhelming love I fell upon the feet of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I was curious to know who this elderly man was. The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knew the state of my curiosity due to his blessed knowledge of the Unseen and his inner power, and said to me, ‘This is Abu Hanifah, and he is your Imam’. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 216)

2. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: Once I had some difficulty (related to religion); I tried to resolve it but was unsuccessful. I had the same kind of

trouble earlier as well, I visited the shrine of Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu Yazeed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and that problem was resolved. This time I also intended to visit the shrine. Having this intention I had a Chillah (moments of reflection) at his shrine for three months, so that my problem could be resolved. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 65)

1. Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated about Sayyiduna Abul ‘Abbas Qaasim Bin Mahdi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that his shrine is situated in Merv (Turkmenistan) and it is very famous; people make Du’a for the fulfilment of their desire and asked for help for their major problems to be solved and they are helped. This has been tried many times.

(Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 165)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! It was also the belief of Sayyiduna Daata Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that not only is it a source of attaining the blessings by visiting the blessed shrines but problems & troubles are also resolved there and all these are the blessings and favours of that blessed Saint who belonging to the shrine. It is possible that some might have this evil thought as to how one can be benefited by the saints? As they have passed away. Remember! The esteemed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are not only alive by the blessings and favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ but they also guide and help those who visit them (visit their shrines).

Sayyiduna Imam Isma’eel Haqqi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: The bodies of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, the saints and martyrs (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) neither change nor decompose in their graves, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ preserves their bodies from decomposing. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 3, pp. 439)

‘Allamah Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَوِی has said that the saints of Allah are transferred from this mortal world to the endless world and they are alive with their Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They are provided with sustenance and are pleased, but people are unaware of this. (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 3, pp. 423)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Mulla ‘Ali Qaari عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـبَارِی has said: Actually there is no difference in both the conditions (i.e. their life and death) of the Awliya-Allah. It is therefore said that they do not die but are transferred from one home to another. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih lil-Qaari, vol. 3, pp. 459)

کون کہتا ہے ولی سَب مَر گئے؟ قَید سے چُھوٹے وہ اپنے گھر گئے!

Dear Islamic brothers! From the details of these great Aimmah Kiraam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی it has been learnt that the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, the martyrs and the saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are all alive in their shrines and also have the authority to help people. Therefore, it was the routine of not only the people but also great Islamic scholars and learned people to visit the shrines of the blessed saints for solutions to their problems. Regarding this, let’s listen to 3 sayings of esteemed saints:

1. A renowned Hanbali Muhaddis Sayyiduna Imam Khallaal Abu Bakr Ahmad Bin Muhammad Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has said: Whenever I face any problem, I visit the shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Musa Kaazim Bin Ja’far Sadiq رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا and present his Wasilah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ eases my problems and fulfils my desires. (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 1 pp. 133)

2. The spiritual leader of millions of Shaafi’is, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: Whenever I need anything, I visit the luminous shrine of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه after offering two Rak’aat Salah, and make Du’a, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfils my need. (Al-Khayraat-ul-Hisaan, pp. 94)

3. Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Sulayman عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has said that I needed something and I was very poor. I visited the luminous grave of Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, recited Surah Al-Ikhlas 3 times, and sent its reward to his soul and the souls of all the Muslims and then mentioned my need. As I returned from there, my need was fulfilled.

(Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 188)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the abovementioned incidents it has been learnt that Du’as are answered at the shrines of saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Furthermore, the importance of making Isal-e-Sawab to saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی has also been learnt, therefore we should also have this habit that whenever we have the privilege of visiting a saint’s shrine, we must make Isal-e-Sawab to the blessed saint belonging to that shrine. We will receive lots of blessings for this, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Imam Abul Qaasim ‘Abdul Kareem Bin Hawazin Qushayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: It is the description of a saint: I used to make Du’a for Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basariyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا, once I saw her in my dream saying, ‘Your gifts (i.e. Du’as and Isal-e-Sawab) are brought to us in large trays of Noor which are covered by coverings of Noor.’ (Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 424)

Dear Islamic brothers! There are some manners to visit the shrines of saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی if you want to attain their blessings. In order to know: What good intentions should be made before the visit? What Du’as should be made at the shrines? What are the advantages of visiting shrines? etc., etc., obtain the 48-page published booklet named ‘ Mazaraat-e-Awliya ki Hikayaat ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will increase your knowledge a lot. Let’s listen to the manner of visiting shrines and some Madani pearls from this booklet:

§ When wanting to visiting the blessed tomb of a pious saint or the grave of any Muslim, then it is Mustahab to perform two Rak’aat of Nafl (supererogatory) Salah (as long as it is not a Makruh time) in your home. In each Rak’at, after Surah Al-Fatihah recite Ayat-ul- Kursi once and Surah Al-Ikhlas three times and donate the reward of this Salah to the deceased whose grave you are to visit. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will create brilliance in the grave of that deceased individual and He will bestow an extremely great reward on the one who donated the reward. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 350)

§ Whenever you visit a holy shrine, approach the blessed grave from the feet side and stand in front of the face at a distance of at least four feet and present greetings in a medium voice in this way: اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا سَيِّدِيۡ وَرَحۡ ـ مَ ةُ اللّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُه ٗ, then recite Durood-e-Ghausiyyah 3 times, Surah Al-Fatihah once, Ayat-tul-Kursi once, Surah Al-Ikhlas seven times, Durood-e-Ghausiyyah seven times, and if time permits, recite Surah Yaseen and Surah Al-Mulk as well, and then make Du’a in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the following way: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant me the reward of this recitation according to your generosity, not according to my actions, and send it as a gift from me to this accepted person.’

Then make Du’a for any permissible desire you may have, presenting the blessed soul of that saint belong to the shrine, in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as a Wasilah (intermediary). Then present your greetings again as above and return. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 522)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is normally seen that Niyaz is distributed at the shrines of saints; this is also a way of making Isal-e-Sawab to the saint belong to the shrine. Certainly, there is great excellence for distributing Niyaz, etc. for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Fatawa Razawiyyah, volume 24, page 521, has mentioned: To distribute Langer (give food) are good deeds and causes of rewards. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

اِنَّ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ يُبَاهِيۡ مَلٰئِكَتَه ٗ بِالَّذِيۡنَ يُطۡعِمُوۡنَ الطَّعَامَ مِنۡ عَبِيۡدِه

i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ displays pride of His bondsmen upon the angels who give food to people. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 38, Hadees 21)

But while distributing Langer (Niyaz) great care should be taken that Langer (Niyaz) should not be disrespected in any way, nor should it be under one’s feet, nor should the floor of the shrine be stained with it. Langer (Niyaz) should be distributed after making Islamic brothers sit or making them form a

queue for avoiding pushing and shoving. Special care should be taken regarding the rights of visitors who arrive; they should not face any problems during their presence in the shrine due to the distribution of Langer (Niyaz) and, in particular, great care should be taken regarding the reverence of the blessed shrine. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, on the one hand, by distributing Langer (Niyaz) you are getting reward, but on the other hand you are committing the sin of disrespecting the blessed shrine. Countless perpetual Sawab (rewards) can also be presented to the saint belong to the shrine by distributing books and booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, besides the Niyaz of food.

(Mazaraat-e-Awliya ki Hikayaat, pp. 17)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Not only should we be careful while distributing Langer (Niyaz) but everywhere while eating or giving food that the pieces of food must not be wasted. If a morsel falls over somewhere and there is no fear of people scolding, then without any hesitation, we should pick it up and eat it. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, its blessings will be obtained.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that Rasulullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once entered his blessed home and saw a piece of bread on the floor. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم picked it up, cleaned it and ate it. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said, ‘O ‘Aaishah (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا)! Respect that which is good because when this (i.e. the bread) has gone away from a nation, then it has never returned.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 50, Hadees 3353)

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, virtually everyone seems to be complaining of deprivation and a lack of blessings in sustenance. Perhaps, this is the punishment of disrespect for bread. Today, you would hardly find a Muslim who does not waste bread. Everywhere, whether it is at a wedding feast or a Niyaz-meal of a saint, you will see people waste food. Regretfully, a lot of food is also carelessly dumped on the dining-mat during meals. After the food has been consumed, some food and meat still remain on the bones and spices, which are then carelessly thrown away. After eating once, most

people do not even think of reusing the food left in plates, bowls and pots and it eventually ends up in the garbage.

One should repent of any Israaf (wastage) he has committed till now and make a firm intention never to waste even a single crumb of food or a single drop of soup. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! On the Day of Judgement, one will surely be held accountable for every crumb of food he wasted in the world. Without doubt, no one has the power to bear the accountability on the Day of Judgement. Repent sincerely. Recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and plead, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I repent of Israaf which I have committed till today as well as of all my minor and major sins. With Your grant and assistance I will strive to refrain from all sins in the future. Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive me without holding me accountable.’

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have listened to a Bayan about the life history of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is such a great pious saint of the 5 th century, that after more than 1000 years of his passing away, there is still no decrease in his scholarly and spiritual majesty. Millions of Muslims receive benefit from him. His original homeland is the city of Afghanistan named Ghazni, but to call people towards righteousness he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left his home country and lived in a foreign city. From this we learn that we too must travel at least for 3 days with a Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami to call people towards righteousness and without any complaints we should endure the difficulties which are experienced in this path, we should also make great efforts to promote the blessed Sunnah. Individual efforts should be made with wisdom to people of all professions.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is serving the religion in different departments, another department has been formed for the reformation and improvement

the Islamic knowledge of players named ‘Majlis Reformation of Players’ whose sole purpose is to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami among those who are related to sports and associating them with Dawat-e-Islami to give them the mind set of living their lives according to this Madani mission: ‘ I have to strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, efforts are being made to give the mind-set of this Madani mission ‘I must to strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world’ to many players and their families.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! Participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs which are arranged by Dawat-e-Islami for serving the blessed Sunnah. The 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs are very helpful to guide Muslims to follow the Sunan and to convey the message of the Glorious Quran and the blessed Sunnah to the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One of the activities of these 12 Madani activities is to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ begins after Salat-ul-Maghrib with the recitation of Surah Al-Mulk. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘By the One! In Whose power is my life! To listen to one verse of the book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is greater than giving Sadaqah equal to the mountain (Jabal-e-Sabeer). (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 8, pp. 82, Hadees 24615)

Just ponder! This is the benefit of listening to only one verse, so what amount of reward we may receive if we listen to a whole Surah. Blessed Na’at is recited after the recitation of the Holy Quran, how great is it to listen to and to recite Na’at! Reciting Na’at for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Hassaan Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and listening to Na’at is the blessed Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, thereafter a Sunnah-inspiring speech is delivered. In this speech, one can receive very valuable

Islamic knowledge. Regarding the excellence of gaining Islamic knowledge, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The most preferable Sadaqah is this that a Muslim gains knowledge, then imparts it to his Islamic brother.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 158, Raqm 243)

After Zikr and Du’a, Salat and Salam, Salat-ul-‘Isha and Salah, Halqahs are held in which Sunan and manners about different topics are mentioned. A Du’a is taught to memorize; the Madani Halqah of Fikr-e-Madinah is held, then there is a break. Fortunate lovers of the Beloved Rasool after having the privilege of observing I’tikaf also enjoy the blessings of Tahajjud Salah. Sada-e-Madinah is done after Fajr Azan, Salat-ul-Fajr with Jama’at is performed, a Madani Halqah after Salah is conducted and then acting upon the Madani In’amaat, Islamic brothers have the privilege to offer Salat-ul-Ishraq and Chasht (Duha); the Ijtima’ ends with Salat and Salam. After the Ijtima’, many lovers of the Beloved Rasool have the privilege of travelling with Madani Qafilahs for learning the Sunan.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen? Attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ brings about great rewards. Therefore, you are requested to overcome your laziness and regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ from beginning to end and become deserving of great rewards. The blessings of the Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ can be judged from the following Madani parable!

An Islamic brother from Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore sent me a letter stating: I was an irresponsible and careless young man. I would always fulfil my own desires. I was misled by the love of the world, and was severely intoxicated by sins. I used to produce tunes from tapping on lunch boxes and was famous in my family for singing childish songs and mimicking singers. It was my habit to make jokes, read poems, sing songs, and dance at weddings and other parties, and to make people laugh.

I was a student at the time and an Islamic brother wearing an ‘Imamah used to visit my elder brother. Once, my brother also introduced me to him, and

he invited me to attend Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Upon his invitation, I attended the weekly congregation, and I really liked it. I started attending the congregation regularly, and also began to invite my classmates; they also started to attend the weekly congregation.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I started performing Salah regularly, and as the time passed, I adorned my head with the ‘Imamah (turban) . Upon seeing the ‘Imama h, my family used to oppress me; and they would forcefully pull the ‘ Imamah from my head, مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I used to be stopped from giving Dars, and when I grew my hair according to the Sunna h, they forcibly cut my hair. My beard had not grown yet [as I was young], but I had intended to keep a fistful beard.

Even after such circumstances, the strength of the Madani environment, and the company of devotees caused me to get closer and closer to the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Listening to the speeches from Maktaba-tul-Madinah gave me strength, and taught me how to be patient. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani environment also started inspiring my family members, and the family members who used to stop me from travelling in Madani Qafilahs, gave me permission to travel for 12 months. The weekly Ijtima’ of Islamic sisters started in my house and my father adorned his face with the beard.

گرچہ فنکار ہو، قافِلے میں چلو گو گلوکار ہو، قافِلے میں چلو

خُلد درکار ہو، قافلے میں چلو فضلِ غفّار ہو، قافِلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. Two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a. Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ when you finish. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

b. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breathe into the vessel or to blow into it.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akim-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـحَـنَّان has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breathe into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breathe, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should breathe moving the mouth away from the utensil (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any verse of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of cure.

2. Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking.

3. Drink water in small sips, large sips causes damage to the liver.

4. Drink water in three breathes.

5. Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

6. Look into the utensil before drinking that nothing harmful is in it.

(Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

7. Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ after drinking.

8. Leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

9. The leftover of a Muslim is cure [1] .

10. After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

[1] Al-Fatawa Al-Faqihi-tul-Kubra li Ibn Hajar Al-Haytami, vol. 4, pp. 117; Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 1, pp. 384

