اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِ ؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Blessings of Celebrating

The Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

· The Holy Quran contains the commandment to remember the Ayyamullah (days of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). (Part 13, Ibraheem, verse 5, summarized) and among the days of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the most sacred day is the Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

and the Hereafter. The one celebrating Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be granted respect, blessing, goodness and glory, he will enter the Heaven wearing a turban of pearls and green robe, he will be granted countless palaces and there will be a Heavenly maiden in each palace. Recite Salat -‘Alan- Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance and make it widely known by celebrating the Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Majmu ’ Lateef -un- Nabi, pp. 281) * Hafiz- ul - Hadees Imam Abul Khayr Muhammad Bin ‘ Abdur Rahman Sakhaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Great blessings are showered upon the people by virtue of the act of celebrating the Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Subul - ul -Huda, vol. 1, pp. 363) * Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Muhammad Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Among the benefits of holding Milad in the month of sacred birth of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is proven benefit that the year turns out to be peaceful. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon the person who has conceived of nights of birth-month of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as Eid.’ (Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 148) * The saints, in their discourses have conveyed good news of Heaven for the people who celebrate Blessed Birthday of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ

