اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَالصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْن ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ! فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْم ط بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْم ط

Blessings of Sha’ban

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abul Muwahib Shaazili رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated: I was blessed with beholding the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You will intercede for one hundred thousand people from my Ummah

on the Day of Judgement.’ I humbly asked, ‘O my Master صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How was I blessed with such a huge privilege?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘[This is] because you keep reciting Salat upon me.’

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra lish-Sha’rani, Al-Juz-us-Saani, pp. 101)

آس ہے نہ کوئی پاس ایک تمہاری ہے آس

بس ہے یہی آسرا تم پہ کروڑوں درود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is such an act that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does it Himself. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ وَ مَلٰٓىٕكَتَهٗ یُصَلُّوْنَ عَلَى النَّبِیِّؕ-یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا صَلُّوْا عَلَیْهِ وَ سَلِّمُوْا تَسْلِیْمًا(۵۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah and His angels send blessings on the Informer of the unseen news (Nabi); O believers! (You must also) send blessings and abundant salutations upon him. (Part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 56)

After the revelation of this blessed Ayah the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became extremely happy and said: Congratulate me because I have been blessed with the blessed Ayah which is dearer to me than ‘ دُنْیاوَما فِیْہا ’ [i.e. the world and whatever is in it].

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, Part 22, Al-Ahzaab, Taht-al-Ayah: 56, vol. 7, pp. 223)

This blessed Ayah is a clear Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in which it is mentioned that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends mercy to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and angels also make Du’a of mercy for him and O Muslims! You also send Salat and Salam to him, that is, make Du’as of mercy and peace. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 8, pp. 78)

This blessed month, Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, is the favourite month of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the month of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. It is stated in Ghunya-tut-Talibeen that in the blessed month of Sha’ban, Salat-

’Alan-Nabi is recited upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly and this is the month of sending Salat-’Alan-Nabi to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ghunya-tut-Talibeen, vol. 1, pp. 342)

Hence Salat-’Alan-Nabi should be recited abundantly in this blessed month. Let’s listen to a parable from page 422 of ‘ Guldastah-e-Durood-o-Salam ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah in order to form the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam.

Good news of intercession

There was a man who did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One night, he was privileged to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not pay attention to him. He humbly said: O the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Are you displeased with me? No, replied the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He humbly asked: Then why do you not give me any attention? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Because I do not recognise you. He humbly said: Your Honour! How is it possible that you do not recognise me; I am one of the person of your Ummah [followers], and Islamic scholars say that you know your Ummati [follower] better than a father who recognizes his son. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Islamic scholars have said truthfully, but you do not remember me through Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and I recognize the people of my Ummah due to their recitation of Salat; the more they recite Salat upon me, the more I recognize them.

When he woke up, he made it compulsory for himself to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم one hundred times daily. Afterwards, that person got into the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi one hundred times daily. After some period of time, he was again blessed with the sacred sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: I now recognise you and I will also intercede for you.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp.79)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only becomes pleased with the reciter of Salat-‘Alan-

Nabi, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also blesses him with his blessed sight. Therefore, we too should keep on reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم whether we are, walking, standing or sitting.

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The true believer who offers two Rak’aat in the night of Friday in a way that he recites Surah Al-Ikhlas 25 times after Surah Al-Fatihah in each Rak’at. After this, recites 1000 times this Salat, ‘ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ عَلٰي مُحَمَّدِ النَّبِيِّ الاُمِّيۡ ’, so he will be blessed with my sight in his dream before the next Friday, and the one who has seen me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive his sins. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 383)

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: ‘Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 1000 times on the day of Friday, he will be blessed with the sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream or he will see his destination in Paradise; if the aim is not fulfilled in first attempt, he should recite it on the next Friday as well, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will be blessed with the sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream within the period of five Fridays.’ (Tareekh-e-Madinah, pp. 343)

Dear Islamic brothers! The Mi’raaj of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to have the blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Mi’raaj of a devotee of Rasool is to have the blessed sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . There will be no such unfortunate person who will have no desire to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Surely every devotee of Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will have a yearning for this desire.

کچھ ایسا کردے مرے کِردگار آنکھوں میں ہمیشہ نقش رہے رُوئے یار آنکھوں میں

اُنہیں نہ دیکھا تو کِس کام کی ہیں یہ آنکھیں کہ دیکھنے کی ہے ساری بہار آنکھوں میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Shaykh Abul Mawahib Shaazili رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The one who wants to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should do Zikr

(remembrance) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly and have devotion to the descendants of the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, otherwise he will remain deprived of [the privilege of seeing the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] in his dream because these blessed personalities رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are the chiefs of all people; the people with whom they are displeased, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are also displeased with them. (Afzal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 127)

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and desire to have the blessed sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so we should make Salat-‘Alan-Nabi our morning and evening Wazifah (invocation). If we continue to do it with true yearning, so اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ one day we will also surely be privileged to see the blessed vision of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

In his Madani bouquet (booklet), ‘ Al-Wazifa-tul-Karimah ’ on Du’as and Wazaaif, which are recited in different timings, after mentioning some specific words of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for attaining the privilege to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم A’la Hadrat Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written: Recite [Salat-‘Alan-Nabi] purely for the respect and reverence for the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; do not have even the intention [in your heart] to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; it is up to his mercy that is limitless and endless. Stand facing Madinah Tayyibah and your heart be towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, fold your hands [in respect and reverence] and recite and imagine that you are present at the luminous Raudah [mausoleum] of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and have this belief that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is looking at you, listening to you and aware of the conditions of your heart. (Al-Wazifa-tul-Karimah, pp. 28)

Dear Islamic brothers! Following the method given to us by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه if we also get into the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi with sincerity and steadfastness, so اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ besides attaining the privilege to have the blessed sight of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we will also

become deserving of abundant blessings and countless mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to more virtues of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for persuasion.

In ‘ Jazb-ul-Quloob ’, Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When a Mu`min [believer] recites Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends mercy to him ten times, (removes his ten sins), raises his ranks ten times, bestows ten virtues upon him, bestows the reward of freeing 10 slaves upon him [1] and bestows the reward of participating in 20 Ghazwat [battles against infidels in which Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself participated] upon him. (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 340, Hadees 2484)

Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is the reason through which Du’as are accepted. (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 22, Hadees 3554)

Reciting it makes the intercession of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Wajib. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 279 Hadees 3285)

A reciter of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi will attain the closeness to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the door of Paradise. Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is sufficient for removing all worries and for the fulfilment of all needs.

(Ad-Durr-ul-Mansoor, vol. 2, pp. 654)

Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is the Kaffarah [expiation] of sins. (Jila-ul-Afhaam, pp. 234)

Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is a substitute of Sadaqah, or rather more superior to Sadaqah. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 229)

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said: Salat-‘Alan-Nabi removes troubles, cures illnesses, dispels fear, brings salvation from oppression, achieves dominance over enemies, brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and develops love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; angels do the Zikr and complete the deeds of the one who recites Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. The one who recites Salat-‘Alan-Nabi attains purity of the heart and soul, possessions and wealth; he becomes prosperous, attains its blessings and blessings continue to be there in his children for four generations. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 229)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely necessary to recite Salat and Salam abundantly for attaining blessings, attaining success in mysticism and the closeness to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We, therefore, should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while sitting, standing, walking etc. In this month of blessed Sha’ban, we should especially recite it more and more. We should observe Sawm during the day and worship during the night because this sacred month is the month of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: شَعۡبَانُ شَهۡرِيۡ وَ رَمَضَانُ شَهۡرُ اللّٰهِ ‘i.e., Sha’ban is my month and Ramadan is the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 301, Hadees 4889)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would like this month very much and would observe Sawm abundantly. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam was the favourite month of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Siyam in it and then join it with Ramadan. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 476, Hadees 2431)

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Siyam most of the days in Sha’ban

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not observe Siyam more in any other month than in the blessed month of Sha’ban, but rather, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Siyam for the whole month of Sha’ban and would say, ‘Act according to your capability as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not stop His blessings until you lose interest.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 648, Hadees 1970)

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah Mufti Shareef-ul-Haq Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It means that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Siyam in most of the days of Sha’ban and ‘ mostly ’ has been referred to as the whole (i.e. observing Siyam for the whole month). It is said that so-and-so worshipped the whole night, though he would have spent some

time in eating food and meeting his needs in the night. Here ‘ mostly ’ refers to the ‘ whole ’.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: From this blessed Hadees it has been learnt that the one who has good health and strength should observe more and more Siyam. However, the one who is weak should not observe Siyam as they may affect his Siyam of Ramadan. The same is the purpose of the Ahadees in which it was stated, ‘Do not observe Sawm after half of the Sha’ban.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 738; Nuzha-tul-Qaari, vol. 3, pp. 377-380)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the extent to which our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would like this sacred month! Though Siyam are not obligatory in this month, yet the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Siyam abundantly. Now just ponder over the fact that being Sayyid-ul-Ma’soomeen [the chief of infallibles], the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would spend most of the days of this blessed month in observing Siyam, so how necessary is it for the sinful people like us to observe Siyam in this blessed month? We should also form the habit of observing Nafl Siyam besides observing the Siyam of Ramadan. It has countless religious benefits along with abundant worldly benefits for us. The protection of Iman (faith), protection from sins, salvation from Hell and the attainment of Paradise are religious benefits.

As far as worldly benefits are concerned, it saves time and expenses [which are spent during the day in eating and drinking (water etc.)] in the state of observing Sawm, makes the stomach better and gives rest to the stomach along with protection against many other diseases.

The essence of all these benefits is to bring about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should also try to get countless religious and worldly benefits by experiencing difficulties for some days. Moreover, the reward for observing Nafl Siyam is so much that one longs to keep observing Sawm [one after another].

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Hoping for reward the one who observes one Nafl Sawm, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him away 40 years (distance) from Hell. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, pp. 255, vol. 8, Hadees 24148)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: If someone obser ves a Nafl Sawm one day and he is given the whole earth full of gold, even then its reward will not be complete; he will get its reward only on the Day of Judgement. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, pp. 353, vol. 5, Hadees 6104)

Best deed

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that, I humbly asked, ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Tell me of any act (that will benefit me).’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘observe Siyam, because no other deed is like it.’ I asked again, ‘Tell me of any (other) act.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Observe Siyam, because no other deed is like it.’ I asked once again, ‘Tell me any (other) act.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Observe Siyam, because no other deed is like it.’ (Sunan Nasa`ee, vol. 4, pp. 166)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen those who observe Nafl (supererogatory) Siyam are rewarded with such incredible favours that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeps them away from Hell to the distance of 40 years, and even if gold equal to the earth was given to him, still it cannot reach the reward which will be given to him on the Day of Judgement. Therefore, in order to remain protected from the Hell and attain abundance of reward in the Hereafter, we should also observe Nafl Siyam, such as the Siyam of Rajab and Sha’ban as well as on Mondays and Thursdays, along with the Fard [obligatory] Siyam.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه loves Nafl Siyam immensely; that’s the reason he observes Siyam mostly the entire year except on the prohibited days. He also strongly motivates and persuades others to observe Siyam on each Monday along with observing Siyam in Rajab and Sha’ban. Furthermore, by the virtue of his sincere persuasion and motivation, many Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters are privileged to observe Siyam in the entire month of Rajab and Sha’ban, if not the whole of these blessed months, then most of their days are spent observing Siyam. Moreover, keeping Sawm on Monday is also part of the Madani In’amaat, as the Madani In’aam no. 58 states: ‘ Did you observe Sawm

on Monday (or on any other day if missed) during this week? Moreover, did you eat bread made from barley at least once this week? ’

Routine of Blessed Sahabah upon the arrival of Sha’ban

Dear Islamic brothers! Along with keeping Siyam in the blessed month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, we should also perform worship in abundance. It was the routine of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم that they would spend most of their time in praying and worshipping as soon as this blessed month would arrive.

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘As soon as the crescent moon of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam was sighted, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would engage themselves in reciting the Holy Quran and paying Zakah of their wealth so that the weak and the poor may also make preparations for observing Siyam of the month of Ramadan. Rulers would summon the prisoners to enforce sentence upon the deserving ones (sentenced by Shari’ah) and set the rest free. Businessmen would pay their debts and collect their dues. (In this way, they would free themselves before the appearance of the moon of Ramadan), and as soon as the moon of Ramadan appeared, they would perform Ghusl and [some] would take part in I’tikaf [for the whole month].’ (Ghunya-tut-Talibeen, vol. 1, pp. 246)

Shab-e-Bara`at, the night of worship!

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also worship abundantly in the night of Shab-e-Bara`at. Sayyidah ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا has narrated: (Once) on the 15 th night of Sha’ban, the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘Give me the permission to worship in this night’. I humbly said, ‘Yes, may my parents be sacrificed upon you.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed Qiyam. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went into Sajdah [prostration], he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed very long Sajdah [prostration]. I presumed that the blessed soul of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been seized. I touched the blessed foot of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and was overjoyed to feel the movement. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 3837)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and despite being Sayyid-ul-Ma’soomeen [the Chief of infallibles], how excessively would he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم worship in that sacred night. We should also worship abundantly in this night and avoid setting off fireworks and other such acts which cause the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It is mentioned in a blessed Hadees that whoever stays awake in five (5) nights and spends them in worshipping, Jannah becomes Wajib [obligatory] for him; the 15 th night of Sha’ban is also one of these nights.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 8, pp. 403, Surah Ad-Dukhan, Taht-al-Ayah: 3)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see the great excellences and virtues of worshipping in this blessed night? We should also develop the habit of standing awake in prayers in these blessed nights, as well as adopt the habit of performing Nafl acts of worship according to one’s ability along with offering the obligatory prayers. Staying awake in prayers at night and observing Sawm in the day are part of the routine of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

It is reported that for 40 years, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah and Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی performed Salat-ul-Fajr with the Wudu of Salat-ul-‘Isha. Moreover, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه devoted 25 years in worshipping Allah Almighty in the jungles of Iraq. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 118)

The blessed pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی also kept consecutive Siyam for many years. They offered up to 300, 500, and even 1000 Nawafil a day. They would complete recitation of the entire Quran daily; they would recite thousands of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. In short, those blessed personalities used to carry out virtuous deeds excessively considering this world as a place to prepare for the Hereafter. If we also want to enjoy the excellent blessings of Jannah, then while following the footsteps of the righteous predecessors, we must perform virtuous deeds in abundance and also refrain from sins by reflecting upon the Hereafter.

Weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Become the one who takes part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah by remaining associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to attain steadfastness in the Madani thought of pondering over the Hereafter and virtuous deeds. One weekly Madani activity out of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also ‘to attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessings of attending weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, one is privileged to ponder over the Hereafter. Du’as are answered in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. The Zikr of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty is done in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘ عِنْدَذِکْرِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ تَنْزِلُ الرَّحْمَۃُ ’ i.e. Divine mercy descends at the time of the Zikr of righteous people.

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Raqm 10750)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of attending a weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ for persuasion and also make intention to attend the Ijtima’ regularly.

Repentance made by a joker

An Islamic brother from Markaz-ul-Awliya [Lahore] was committing sins and living a heedless life. An Islamic brother invited him to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. At his invitation he reached the Ijtima’ and liked it very much, therefore he started attending the Ijtima’ regularly. He also started offering Salah regularly and wearing blessed ‘Imamah. Some of his family members strictly opposed him, but the attraction of Madani environment and the good behaviour of devotees of Rasool continued to bring him closer to Dawat-e-Islami. By listening to the cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches produced by Maktaba-tul-Madinah he gathered courage and his morale kept improving. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani environment also took place gradually at his home.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Shab-e-Bara`at is the blessed night in which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has infinite mercy on His bondmen. Hence during this blessed night we should get abundant favours and honours from the merciful court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by performing worship and spiritual exercises more and more, preventing ourselves from sins and reciting abundant Salat and Salam.

Past Muslims, who had the Madani mind-set, would try to attain the closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by worshipping Him more and more in these sacred days, but what has happened to Muslims now as they do not value these blessed days. Instead of spending their precious time in Masajid or attending the Ijtima’ of Zikr and Na’at, they waste it in useless activities, although during this night, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows special blessings and forgives His countless bondmen.

Shab-e-Bara`at, the night of forgiveness

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has reported that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When the 15 th night of Sha’ban arrives, perform Qiyam (i.e. worship) in this night and observe Sawm during the day. Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reveals a special Divine Manifestation on the sky above the earth from the time of sunset and announces, ‘Is there anyone seeking forgiveness so that I may forgive him? Is there anyone seeking sustenance so that I may grant him sustenance? Is there anyone afflicted so that I may relieve his affliction? Is there so and so...’ He عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to announce this until the time of Fajr.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 160, Hadees 1388)

Alas! Some ignorant Muslims, let alone respecting and revering this sacred night, they distress and become a means of disturbance for those virtuous Muslims who are engaged in worshipping Allah Almighty with humility of body and mind, or trouble those who are ill, elderly or children who are asleep in their homes, by setting off fireworks. Remember! Troubling Muslims, hurting their feelings and making them suffer in different ways are all strictly prohibited and Haraam and are the acts leading to the Hell. Just ponder that in this blessed night, when everyone is being forgiven, if we are stopped from being forgiven due to our wicked actions, then what will happen to us at that time? Therefore, if we have hurt any Muslim’s feelings

deliberately or unintentionally, or violated anyone’s right or if we have a grudge and enmity against anyone, then seek forgiveness before the arrival of Shab-e-Bara`at and also make the intention of refraining from these sins in future because death can come anytime. We never know we may pass away this very year while we remain in the state of heedlessness.

Therefore, get the rights of people violated by you forgiven as soon as possible and repent from distressing devout worshippers, ill patients and infants through setting off the fireworks. Remember! Fireworks are not the invention of Muslims, but is the invention of non-Muslims. Therefore, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The [tyrant] king Namrood invented fireworks. When Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام was thrown into the fire and it turned into a garden of flowers, then Namrood’s people prepared fireworks which they set on fire and threw towards Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام .’ (Islami Zindagi, pp. 63)

Sadly, this wicked tradition of fireworks is now becoming prevalent amongst Muslims. Every year, Muslims waste millions on fireworks. Moreover, it’s often reported that so many houses have been burnt and so many people have been burnt to death as a result of fireworks, etc. It can result in a loss of life, it is complete waste of money and there is a risk of a house being set ablaze. Furthermore, this act is also the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Making, selling, purchasing and making one purchase, setting off fireworks or getting them set off by someone else are all Haraam acts.’ (Islami Zindagi, pp. 63)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Instead of disturbing the [acts of] worship of Muslims with fireworks in Shab-e-Bara`at perform worship more and more and repent of your sins in tears. With the intention of your forgiveness along with acting upon the Sunnah go to the graveyard and visit the graves in order to develop Fikr-e-Aakhirat [the contemplation of the Hereafter]. Moreover, make also Du’a of forgiveness for all Muslims including your own deceased ones.

Shab-e-Bara`at and visiting the graves

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated, ‘One night (i.e. the 15 th night of Sha’ban), I did not see the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but (then) I found him in Baqi’-e-Pak (the blessed graveyard in Madinah Munawwarah). The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘Were you afraid that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool will violate your rights?’ I politely replied, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I thought that you had probably gone to one of your other blessed wives.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Without doubt, on the 15 th night of Sha’ban, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reveals His special manifestation on the sky of the world and forgives more people than even the number of hairs of the goats of the tribe of Bani Kalb.’ (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 183, Hadees 739)

Majlis of Judges and Lawyers

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard! How great and exalted night is Shab-e-Bara`at in which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives the sinners more than the hairs of the goats of tribe Bani Kalb. Therefore, instead of wasting this sacred night in heedless acts we should spend it in the acts which bring about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In order to attain this Madani thought we should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is not only spreading the Madani message of Islam in approximately 104 departments, but it is also busy giving the Madani mind-set of spending life according to the Madani aim [ I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] and Fikr-e-Aakhirat to the people related to this profession for their reformation through ‘Majlis Judges and Lawyers’ by associating them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Madani Halqahs are, from time to time, arranged in the residences, offices, bar associations, etc., of the devotees of Rasool of this profession. They are also privileged to attend ‘Weekly Ijtima’ and ‘Madani Muzakarahs’. ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults’ are also arranged by the effort of Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults to give the people associated with this profession the education of Holy Quran. In this Madrasah, the education of the Holy Quran

is taught ‘ فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللہ ’. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable ‘Majlis Judges and Lawyers’ progress more! Aameen

Dear Islamic brothers! It is Sunnah for Islamic brothers to visit the graveyard on Shab-e-Bara`at (but Islamic sisters are not allowed to visit the graveyard according to the Shari’ah; they should do Isal-e-Sawab [donate their rewards] and offer prayers while staying at home.) Islamic brothers should visit the graveyard and do Isal-e-Sawab [donate rewards] and seek forgiveness for their deceased, as the deceased receives comfort and tranquillity through this; and if forgiveness is not sought for them, they become sad.

Deceased of the graveyard appeared in dream

There was a man whose routine was to come to the graveyard and sit down, and whenever any funeral came, he would join the funeral Salah. In the evening, he would stand at the gate of the graveyard and make the following Du’a: ‘(O people of the graves!) May Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) grant you comfort, have mercy on your miserable state, forgive your sins and accept your good deeds!’

That very person has narrated, ‘One evening, I came home without completing my normal routine of the graveyard, that is I returned without making Du’a for them. That night, I saw a large number of people in my dream. I asked them, ‘Who are you and why have you come?’ They said, ‘We are the people of the graveyard. You had made it your routine to present a gift to us before returning home every day and you didn’t do so today.’ I then said, ‘What was that gift?’ They replied, ‘It was the gift of your Du’as.’ I then said, ‘OK’. From now on, I will resume sending this gift again.’ After this, I never stopped this routine of mine.’ (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 226)

Deceased father came in a dream and said…

Sayyiduna Imam Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘When my father passed away, I wept bitterly. I would visit his grave every day. Then with the passage of time, my visits became occasional. One day, my deceased father appeared in my dream and said, ‘O my son! Why is there a delay?’ I asked, ‘Do you come to know of my visits?’ He replied, ‘Indeed? I would come to

know of every visit of yours. I would become happy upon seeing you, and my deceased neighbours would also become pleased by your Du’a.’ Therefore, after that dream, I started to visit the grave of my deceased father regularly.’ (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 227)

Souls come home and demand for Isal-e-Sawab

Dear Islamic brothers! From this we have learnt that the deceased recognize those who visit their graves, and they receive benefit from the Du’as of the living. When the gifts of Isal-e-Sawab are stopped from the living persons, then they are aware of this and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gives them permission to go to their homes and demand for Isal-e-Sawab.

On page 650 of volume 9 of Fatawa Razawiyyah, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, reviver of the religion, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that the souls of believers visit their homes every Thursday night, on the Day of Eid, on the day of ‘Aashurah, and on Shab-e-Bara`at, and stand outside their homes. Every soul calls out in a loud sorrowful voice, ‘O people of my home! O my children! O my relatives! Please do us a favour by giving charity (with the intention of Isal-e-Sawab for us).’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 650)

The Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The state of the deceased is like that of a drowning person. He anxiously waits for the supplication (Du’a) of his father, mother, brother or friend to reach him; and when the supplication of anyone reaches him, then for him, it is better than the world and everything it contains. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the reward gifted to the deceased by their relatives in the form of mountains. The gift of the living is to pray for the forgiveness of the deceased.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, p. 203, Hadees, 7905)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said,

‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Madani pearls of clipping the nails

٭ It is Mustahab [preferable] to clip the nails on a Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

The great scholar of Fiqh, Shaykh Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘It is narrated that whosoever clips his/her nails on a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days in total. In one narration, it is said that whosoever clips their nails on a Friday, [for that person] mercy will come and his sins will go [i.e., be forgiven].’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, pp.9, vol. 668, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 225-226)

٭ The following is a summary of the prescribed method of cutting the fingernails as narrated in authentic books: begin with the index finger of the right hand and work your way right towards the pinkie (smallest finger). Now, beginning with the pinkie (small finger) of the left hand, work your way towards the left thumb. In the end, clip the nail of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 193)

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ clipping the nails ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

٭ There is no prescribed order of clipping the toe nails. It would be better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot working your way left to the big toe, then cut the big toenail of the left foot working your way left to your little toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 1, pp. 193)

٭ It is Makruh [disliked] to clip the nails whilst in the state of Janabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory on one.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 308)

٭ It is Makruh [disliked] to bite the nails with one’s teeth; there is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 308)

٭ Bury the nails after clipping them; they can also be thrown away.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 308)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

