اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Sayyiduna Ali’s Devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

Along with Demands of Devotion to Beloved Rasool

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Judgement Day the person who will attain salvation from its terror and accountability amongst you will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

قَبر میں خُوب کام آتی ہے بیکسوں کی ہے یارِ غار دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the sacred month of Ramadan is going on. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen [leader of the believers] Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was also martyred in this sacred month. With reference to it, today we are going to have the privilege to listen to some Madani pearls about a very beautiful attribute of him ‘Devotion to Rasool’. Let’s, first of all, listen to a parable:

It has been narrated that once some non-Muslims came to leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said: Tell us the attributes of your Beloved Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: O people listen! I had been with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Saur Cave as these two fingers of mine, whereas when I climbed on Hira Mountain with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I was very close to him. Despite being so close it is very difficult for me to talk about the sacred appearance from head to foot of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, go to ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, he will tell you.

Those people went to leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and humbly said to him: O Abul Hasan! Tell us about the attributes of your cousin (i.e. the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! So he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Neither was the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم very tall nor very short, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was a little taller than the medium height. His blessed colour was white with the mixing of redness. His blessed hair was not very curly, but a little curved coming down to the blessed ears. His blessed forehead was wide, eyes filled with kohl, teeth gleaming, beautifully raised nose, neck as clear as a long-necked flask of silver. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would set his step so firmly as if he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was coming down from a height. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم paid attention to someone, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would pay full attention. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would stand, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look taller than people and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would sit, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look prominent.

When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would talk, people would remain quiet. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give sermon, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would make the audience weep. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be very kind and merciful to people, like affectionate father for the orphans, merciful and soft hearted for the widows, the bravest, the most generous and having the most gleaming face. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would wear Jubbah (a long loose dress) and would eat the barley bread. The pillow of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made of leather filled with the bark of date tree. The Charpa`ee (a light bedstead used nowadays in Indo-Pak, consisting of a web of rope or tape netting) was made of acacia wood woven with the ropes of the leaves of date tree. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had two ‘Imamahs. The name of one ‘Imamah was Sahaab and the other one was ‘Uqaab. The things which the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم needed were entitled sword Zulfaqar, female camel ‘Adba, mule Duldul, donkey Ya’foor, horse Bahr, goat Barakah, staff Mamshooq and flag ‘ لِواءُ الۡحَمۡد ’ [Liwa-ul-Hamd]. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself would tie and give fodder to the camel; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would patch his clothes and would mend shoes himself.

Having given the description of the complete blessed appearance, leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated: ‘ لَمْ اَرَ قَبْلَہٗ وَ لَا بَعْدَہٗ مِثْلَہٗ ’, I have never seen anyone like the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before and after him. In another narration after describing the complete appearance Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said: ‘ یَقُوْلُ نَاعِتُہٗ لَم ْ اَرَ قَبْلَہٗ وَلَا بَعْدَہٗ مِثْلَہٗ ’, every admirer of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم finally says this thing: There was no one like him before nor will there be anyone like him after.

(Izala-tul-Khifa, vol. 4, pp. 499; Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 364, Hadees 3657/3658)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: How could the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم see anyone like the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not created anyone like the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 58)

حُسن تیرا سا نہ دیکھا نہ سنا کہتے ہیں اگلے زمانے والے

وہی دھوم ان کی ہے مَا شَاءَ الله مِٹ گئے آپ مٹانے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! When the people asked leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم about the attributes of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so first of all he described the blessed appearance of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in detail. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then described some blessed habits of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the things our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used. Besides mentioning these things Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم also told their names. The answer to the questions of people had completed here, expressing his great love, affection and devotion to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said that there is no one equal to him in his appearance, beauty and habits. ‘ لَمْ اَرَ قَبْلَہٗ وَلَا بَعْدَہٗ مِثْلَہٗ ’, I have never seen anyone like him before nor have I ever seen anyone like him after. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

لَم یَاتِ نَظِیرُکَ فِی نَظَرٍ مِثلِ تو نہ شُد پیدا جانا

جگ راج کو تاج تورے سَرسو ہے تجھ کو شہِ دَوسَرا جانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Of course, there is no one similar to our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is unique and distinctive among all the creatures. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best amongst all the creatures of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It has been elucidated and clarified in many places in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran:

وَ مَاۤ اَرۡسَلۡنٰکَ اِلَّا رَحۡمَۃً لِّلۡعٰلَمِیۡنَ ﴿۱۰۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We did not send you (O dear Prophet Muhammad) except as a mercy for the entire world. (Part 17, Al-Anbiya, verse 107)

It is the summary of whatever A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated regarding this blessed verse: Everything is called Aalam including Prophets and angels except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so certainly the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is mercy for all of them and is the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and all of them are benefited by him. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 141)

Regarding this blessed verse, Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the mercy for all the worlds, so it is also compulsory that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should be the best of all the worlds, only then will be declared mercy for them.

(At-Tafseer-ul-Kabeer, vol. 2, pp. 521)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said:

اِنَّ اللہَ تَعَالٰی فَضَّلَ مُحَمَّدًا (صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَسَلَّم) عَلٰی الْاَنْبِیَاءِ وَعَلٰی اَھْلِ السَّمَاءِ

i.e. Undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the most superior to all the Prophets and angels. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 38, Hadees 46)

The chief of angels, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام himself humbly said:

قَلَّبْتُ مَشَارِقَ الْاَرْضِ وَ مَغَارِبَہَا فَلَمْ اَجِدْ رَجُلاً اَفْضَلَ مِنْ مُحَمَّدٍ

i.e. I have searched the easts and wests of the earth, but found no one more superior to Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 373, Hadees 6258)

Pointing towards the same thing A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

یہی بولے سِدرہ والے چمنِ جہاں کے تھالے

سبھی میں نے چھان ڈالے تِرے پایہ کا نہ پایا

تجھے یَک نے یَک بنایا

Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said that he has searched the entire world, but has not seen the status and rank of anyone equal to the status and rank of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The reason for this is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the only and unique.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, all the blessed companions of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were in deep love with the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . These were those people who for the sake of the Beloved Prophet’s love sacrificed their homes and household goods, wealth, friends, relatives and relations. These were those people who always preferred the pleasure of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to their own pleasure. These were those people who sacrificed their lives for the sake of Islam and waved the flag of Islam across the world.

Amongst these fortunate people one is leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the cousin of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his childhood and boyhood under the guardianship of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that’s why being highly impressed by his character, habits and manners he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had great love and devotion to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to accept wholeheartedly everything that was said by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That’s the reason when the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presented him the invitation to Islam, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accepted it and started offering Salah with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from his childhood and thus he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was regarded amongst the first who embraced Islam.

After embracing Islam the relationship of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became further deeper. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued to fulfil every demand of devotion and love in a good manner. We can find many incidents of great love and devotion of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صاحبِ لُطف و عَطا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا ہیں شہیدِ باوفا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

پیکرِ خوفِ خدا اے عاشقِ خَیرُ الورٰی تم سے راضی کِبریا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

Once, in order to arrange food for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم went to the orchard of a non-Muslim and drew 17 leathern bucket of water from the well as one date was settled for every leathern bucket of water. That non-Muslim placed all types of dates that he had in front of Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, so that whatever dates he wanted, he could pick. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked 17 ‘Ajwah dates and presented them to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: O Abul Hasan! From where have you got these dates? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I heard the news of your severe starvation, so I went out to look for a job so that I could get something for you to eat. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Have you done all this for the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool? It was humbly replied: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! ‘Yes’. So the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The person who loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), poverty and hunger come to him as quickly as the flood of water falls downwards, so the one who loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool

(صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), he should keep a shield ready (in the form of patience for poverty and hunger). (Sunan-ul-Kubra, vol. 6, pp. 197, Hadees 11649)

لگاؤ سینے میں آگ ایسی قَرار پائے نہ دِل کبھی بھی

رُلائے دِن رات تیری اُلفت نبیِّ رَحمَت شَفیعِ اُمّت

میں نام پر تیرے واری جاؤں میں عِشق میں تیرے سَر کٹاؤں

دو ایسا جَذبہ دو ایسی ہِمّت نبیِّ رَحمَت شَفیعِ اُمّت

قلیل روزی پہ دو قَناعت فُضُول گوئی سے دیدو نفرت

دُرُود پڑھتا رہوں بکثرت نبیِّ رَحمَت شَفیعِ اُمّت

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only has it been learnt from this incident that being in devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم did not like it at all that in his presence the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had any inconvenience, it has also been learnt that those who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم may face shortage of sustenance and shortage of wealth.

Usually in our society poverty is considered to be a very big disaster and utterly disgraceful. However, in fact, poverty is the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the wish of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and a harbinger of many virtues and countless benefits. The poor and Masakeen will be enjoying in the Hereafter as they will not be questioned about monetary acts of worship such as Zakah, Fitrah, Hajj etc. because these acts are obligatory only for the rich Muslims who have a particular amount of wealth fixed by Shari’ah. When the wealthy are held accountable in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for their wealth on the Day of Resurrection, the destitute Muslims will be entering Paradise by the grace and will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Hence the poor and destitute will enter

Paradise before the rich. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The destitute Muslims will enter Paradise half a day before the rich, and that (half a day) will be (equivalent to) 500 years.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 158, Hadees 2361)

Dear Islamic brothers! Whatever we have just heard about the excellence of poverty has been derived from the published booklet of Maktaba-tul-Madinah namely, ‘ Ghareeb Fa`iday mayn Hay ’ [Excellence of Poverty]. Is poverty a cause of mercy or a very big curse? Is poverty the cause of increasing the troubles of the world or decreasing the troubles of the Hereafter? Did our pious predecessors use to prefer to live in poverty or want to have abundant wealth? In order to get all these pieces of information buy this booklet today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami and not only study it yourself, but also persuade other Islamic brothers to study it.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to Sayyiduna Ali’s devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His entire life is full of the faith-refreshing parables of devotion to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It was Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم who had the privilege to lie in the bed of Beloved Prophet after he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had gone in the night of migration. Just ponder, if somebody is taking rest at his home at night and receives this news that enemies are outside and want to take his life, so he will lose his sleep, he will not be at peace. However, he knows that there is a very good system of security outside, even then he will not be satisfied. His family members may also become restless and scared. But may I be sacrificed upon Sayyiduna Ali’s un-exemplary courage and perfect passion of love! Despite knowing this that the enemies were taking their position outside and could attack anytime and

take any kind of action in irritation if they did not find their required person, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم did not care for all these things at all.

As the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم called Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and said: I have been commanded to migrate by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, therefore, I will set out for Madinah today. You lie in my bed with my green chador on! Hand over all the trusts of Quraysh which they have entrusted with me to them and then come to Madinah. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم started handing over the trusts of people to their owners and stayed in Makkah for three days. Having handed over the trusts he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to Madinah and reached blessed Quba. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was present in the house of Sayyidatuna Kulsoom Bin Hidm رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also stayed there. (Asad-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 4, pp. 104; Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 113)

بھیک لینے کے لئے دربار میں منگتا ترا لے کے کشکول آگیا مولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

ایک ذرّہ اپنی اُلفت کا عِنایت کر مجھے اپنا دیوانہ بَنا مولٰی علی مشکل کشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this incident it has been learnt that Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم loved the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a lot. The love of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was so much in him that nothing was more beloved to him than the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ loved the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than his life and wealth, parents and children. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ himself has stated:

کَانَ وَاللہِ اَحَبَّ اِلَیْنَا مِنْ اَمْوَالِنَا وَ اَوْلَادِنَا وَ اَبَائِنَا وَ اُمَّھَاتِنَا وَمِنَ الْمَاءِ الْبَارِدِ عَلَی الظَّمَاءِ

By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is more beloved to us than our wealth, our children, our father, our mother and the cold water at the time of intense thirst. (Ash-Shifa, pp. 22)

His outstanding devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be judged by this incident of Hudaybiyah Treaty that when the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم commanded Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم to write the treaty. After getting him to write the conditions of the treaty, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Write ‘ ھَذَا مَا قَا ضٰی عَلَیْہِ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اﷲِ ’ i.e. these are the conditions upon which Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) - the Prophet of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ decided to make reconciliation with Quraysh.

Having heard this, one of the polytheists namely, Suhayl Bin ‘Amr said: If we had accepted you as the Rasool of Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ), we would not have stopped you from Baytullah, nor would we have fought a battle, therefore, instead of writing ‘ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اﷲِ ’, write ‘ مُحَمَّد بِنۡ عَبۡدُ اﷲ ’. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I am Muhammad Bin ‘Abdullah and also ‘ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اﷲِ ’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then commanded Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: Erase (the word) ‘ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اﷲِ ’ and write ‘ مُحَمَّد بِنۡ عَبۡدُ اﷲ ’ in place of it.

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I cannot erase your blessed name, so the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took that treaty and wrote himself ‘ مُحَمَّد بِنۡ عَبۡدُ اﷲ ’ on it (after erasing the word ‘ رَسُوْلُ اﷲ ’). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 212, Hadees 2599)

میں گُناہوں کا مریض اور آپ ہیں م یرے طَبِیب دیجئے مجھ کو شِفا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

دِل سے دُنیا کی مَحَبَّت دُور کر کے یا علی! دیدو عشقِ مُصطَفٰے مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How deeply Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم love our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he did not like to erase the blessed name of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

A great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: In the hand of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم the pen did not write on the word ‘ رَسُوْلُ اﷲ ’, so it was not disobedience, but rather exuberance of faith and passion for devotion to Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 623)

Dear Islamic brothers! A true lover carries out every command of his beloved, or rather he considers it a privilege to perform every deed which is performed by his beloved. Sayyiduna Abu Bakarah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I went for Fajr Salah with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so whoever person he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by if found sleeping, so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would call him for Salah or would shake him with his blessed foot.

(Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 33, Hadees 1264)

Since Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was a true devotee of Beloved Rasool, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also acted upon this deed and was martyred while performing the same act.

It has been narrated that when Muazzin came and informed leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم of Salah, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ left his home for Fajr Salah. On the way, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ woke people by calling them for Salah, that suddenly the unfortunate Ibn-e-Muljam attacked him with his sword, causing him serious injuries and later on he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ suffered martyrdom. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 139)

بعدِ خُلَفائے ثَلاثہ سَب صَحابہ سے بڑا آپ کو رُتبہ مِلا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

کیوں پھروں دَر دَر بھلا خَیرات لینے کے لیے میں فقط منگتا تِرا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, every Muslim claims to love the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but this claim can be considered perfectly right in that case when the demands of devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are acted upon. Therefore, besides claiming to have devotion to Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we should ponder over it whether we are fulfilling the demands of devotion to Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم or our devotion is only confined to our claims. What things does devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم demand? Let’s listen to some of the Madani pearls out of them:

The first and foremost demand for love and devotion is to obey the beloved. Therefore, it is compulsory for every Ummati that the things for which the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded should be acted upon. They should not even imagine any disagreement equal to even a particle. The demand for obeying Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is this that every Muslim should spend his life by acting upon Sunnahs.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Currently, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s great passion for the obedience to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and for the revival of Sunnah is unique. Countless people have been impressed by his luminous personality that is the embodiment of obedience to Sunnah. They have started wearing ‘Imamah (turban), having a beard and started wearing Sunnah-conforming dress. By doing these things they not only have become devotees of Beloved Rasool, but they have also started offering Salah, observing fasts and acting upon Shar’i rulings regularly.

It is stated on page 38 of a book namely, ‘ Introduction to Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: With the intention of acting upon Sunnah he sometimes lies on the floor, and sometimes on a palm leaf mat. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه neither has any kind of thick padded bedding in his house for sleeping on, nor any bed. In short, we can see the obedience to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the everyday practices of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه which is indeed the evidence of deep love and devotion to our

Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to have the same true love and perfect obedience to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

مُطِیع اپنا مُجھ کو بنا یا الٰہی! سَدا سُنّتوں پر چلا یا الٰہی!

میں عِشقِ نبی میں رہوں گم ہمیشہ تُو دیوانہ ایسا بنا یا الٰہی!

تُو انگریزی فیشن سے ہر دم بچا کر مجھے سُنّتوں پر چلا یا الٰہی!

تجھے واسِطہ سَیِّدہ آمِنہ کا بنا عاشقِ مُصطَفٰے یا الٰہی!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another demand for devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is this as well that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should be honoured and revered to an extreme level. The person, who loves someone, himself reveres him and expects it from others as well. If someone insults his beloved a bit, he loses his temper. It is a case of an ordinary beloved, whereas the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ besides the whole universe. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself has commanded to honour and revere him. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ تُعَـزِّ رُ وۡہُ وَ تُوَ قِّرُوۡہُ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And honour and revere the Noble Messenger. (Part 26, Surah Al-Fath, verse 9)

It is also amongst the demands of love and devotion that the person who is claimed to be loved should be mentioned abundantly because a true lover

gets pleasure from the Zikr of his beloved. The centre of our love and devotion is the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, therefore, we should abundantly do his Zikr. Zikr of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the blessed incantation that contains satisfaction for the hearts of devotees, expression of love and the treasure of virtues. The best way of doing it is to recite blessed Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and Salaam upon the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more and more. If we are able to act upon the Madani In’amaat, then we will have the privilege to recite blessed Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least 313 times. Madani In’aam no. 5 says: Today have you recited some Awrad from your Shajarah and recited at least 313 times Salat-‘Alan-Nabi?

نہ غرض کسی سے نہ واسطہ، مجھے کام اپنے ہی کام سے

تیرے ذکر سے تری فکر سے تیری یاد سے تیرے نام سے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the most important things amongst the demands of devotion is this as well that the way a true devotee loves every that thing which belongs to his beloved such as his friends and relatives, similarly, to bear malice against his enemies, to break ties with them are also the demands of devotion. It is not possible that a person claims to have true love for someone and develops friendship with his enemies.

‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: True believers cannot do it and this is not their status and Iman (faith) does not accept it that they befriend the enemy of Allah and His Rasool. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, part 28, Taht-al-Ayah: 22)

Remember! This is not enough for the devotees of Rasool to consider the enemies of the Beloved Prophet to be enemies, but rather besides their enmity they must also abstain from their culture and customs. But alas! What

has happened to the Muslims of these days that مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they feel proud of acting upon the manners of the enemies of the Holy Prophet.

Alas! With the passage of time we are fond of western culture and their lifestyle. With the result that today women have become shameless. The youth of Muslims have no shame in their eyes. Those who call themselves to be the slaves of Beloved Mustafa now instead of adopting the blessed character of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are acting upon the manners of the enemies of Mustafa.

دُور سُنّت سے مُسَلمان ہوئے جاتے ہیں آہ! فیشن کی ہے یَلغار رسولِ عربی!

سُنّتوں کا ہو عَطا دَرد مُسَلمانوں کو دُور فیشن کی ہو بھرمار رسولِ عربی!

میرا سینہ تِری سُنّت کا مدینہ بن جائے سُنّتوں کا کروں پرچار رسولِ عربی!

Dear Islamic brothers! We still have time. We should control ourselves and instead of becoming the person who only talks and does nothing we should become the man of character. Get rid of the love of enemies and develop love for the one whose Noor (luminosity) has illuminated the darkness of this world. We should show great devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

مجھے اپنی رحمت سے تُو اپنا ہی کر لے

سِوا تیرے سب سے کنارا کروں میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! There are many lovers who have one-sided love, who express their love for their beloved all the time, but it will be excellent if the beloved also expresses his love to his lover. Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the fortunate person whose claim to have devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been verified by our Beloved Prophet

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has expressed his great relation himself to him as well.

On the occasion of Battle of Khayber, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ لَاُعْطِیَنَّ الرَّایَۃَ غَدًا رَجُلًا ’, i.e. Tomorrow I will give a flag to the man ‘ یُحِبُّہٗ اللہُ وَرَسُوْلُہٗ وَ یُحِبُّ اللہَ وَرَسُوْلَہٗ ’, who Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool love and he also loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool. Next day, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then gave Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم a flag.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 535, Hadees 3702)

میں تو کہا ہی چاہوں کہ بندہ ہوں شاہ کا

پَر لُطف جب ہے کہدیں اگر وہ جناب "ہُوں"

Who am I and what is my reality? I always say and consider myself to be the slave of the Beloved Prophet, but it will be excellent when the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself says that “you are my slave”.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, admissions are being granted in Jami’a-tul-Madinah for Islamic brothers and Jami’a-tul-Madinah for Islamic sisters. Admissions will continue to be granted until 10 th of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram, 1437 AH (expected July 16 th, 2016).

You also enrol your children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah for the better upbringing, for making them habitual of offering Salah and observing fasts, for teaching them the Shar’i rulings of Faraaid and Wajibat, Halal and Haraam, sell and purchase

and rights of people etc. so that they may impart Islamic knowledge to others after acquiring it and may become the cause of your Hereafter salvation.

The virtues of Islamic knowledge are outstanding! ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Knowledge is not something whose excellence and qualities are to be mentioned. Everyone knows that knowledge is a much better thing and its acquisition is a sign of high rank. It is the thing by which human life becomes pleasant and successful. It is the thing by which our world and the Hereafter both get better. This knowledge means the knowledge which is obtained by the Quran and Hadees. It is the knowledge that makes the world and the Hereafter both better. It is the knowledge that brings about salvation. It is this knowledge that is praised in the Quran and Hadees and for the same education our attention has been drawn. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 618)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In Jami’a-tul-Madinah, not only are students provided with knowledge, but they are also persuaded as to how to avoid sins and perform good deeds. Furthermore, the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah also become travellers of Madani Qafilahs with the devotees of Rasool as per the schedule in the way of Allah. Some fortunate students have the privilege to travel with the 12-month Madani Qafilahs.

Acting upon the 92 Madani In’amaat given by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه they fill out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily and submit it to the responsible Islamic brother of Zayli Mushawarat of their class on the 1 st of every Madani month. You also enrol your children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. Moreover, make individual efforts upon your brothers, friends and other relatives and give them the mind-set of enrolling their children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. It will spread knowledge everywhere and overcome ignorance. It will also become a Sadaqah that will be a permanent source of Divine reward for you.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of walking with the intention of acting upon Sunnahs:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, verse 37:

وَ لَا تَمۡشِ فِی الۡاَرۡضِ مَـرَ حًا ۚ

اِنَّکَ لَنۡ تَخۡرِقَ الۡاَرۡضَ وَ لَنۡ تَبۡلُغَ الۡجِبَالَ طُوۡلًا ﴿۳۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you reach height of the mountains. (Part 15, Bani Israel, verse 37)

2. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking arrogantly]. He was sunk into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

3. When the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

1. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in surprise, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill.

2. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered.

3. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise.

4. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

5. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

