Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .. 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Train kept stationary . 4

Why and how did he memorize the Holy Quran? . 9

Avoid your praise! 9

Piety of Imam-e-A’zam ... 9

What should be done by listening to your own praise? . 10

Excellence of imparting Islamic knowledge . 10

Madani Daurah [Madani visit] — one of the 8 Madani activities . 12

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah . 13

Never missed Sawm ... 14

Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah . 17

Madani pearls of studying . 18

Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Worship and Spiritual Exercises Performed by Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There will be no shade on the Day of Judgement except for the Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three persons will remain beneath the shade of the Divine throne. It was humbly asked, ‘O the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be those people?’ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(1) The one who relieves the distress of my Ummati (follower) (2) the one who revives my Sunnah (3) and the one who recites Salat upon me abundantly.’ (Al-Budoor-us-Saafirah, pp. 131, Hadees 366)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram is in progress. It is the blessed month in which the great spiritual guide of Sunnis, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. He was born in the Mahallah Jasoli of Bareli (UP, India) on 10 Shawwal-ul-Mukarram corresponding to 14 th June, 1856 AD. (Hayat-e-A’la Hazrat, vol. 1, pp. 58) His birth name is ‘Muhammad’. His mother would call him ‘Amman Miyan’ out of love. His father and other relatives would call him ‘Ahmad Miyan’. His grandfather named him ‘Ahmad Raza’ and his historical name is ‘Al-Mukhtar’, (whereas his Kunyat is Abu Muhammad) and A’la Hadrat would himself write ‘Abdul Mustafa’ before his name. (Tajalliyat-e-Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 21) At one place of his Na’tiyah collection, ‘ Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish ’, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

خَوف نہ رکھ رضا ذرا، تُو تو ہے ’’عبدِ مصطفٰے‘‘

تیرے لیے اَمان ہے، تیرے لیے اَمان ہے

Since this blessed month of Shawwal is the month of A’la Hadrat’s birth, we will be privileged to listen to one aspect of his blessed life namely, ‘worship and spiritual exercises’ in relation to it. Let’s start the speech with a faith-refreshing parable.

Train kept stationary

Caliph of A’la Hadrat, Sayyid Ayyub Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once A’la Hadrat was going to Bareilly from Pilibhit by train. On the way, the train stopped at Nawab Ganj Station where train usually stops for two minutes at Maghrib time. As the train stopped, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started offering Salah after having Takbeer of Iqamat in the train. Probably 5 people were behind him

offering Salah in his Iqtida and I was one of them. Before joining the Jama’at I saw a non-Muslim guard who was waving green flag standing at the platform. I peeped through the window and saw that the line was clear and the train was about to leave, but the train did not move and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered all three Rak’at Salah taking full time as he usually takes without any trouble and haste. When he performed Salam to his right, the train began to move. Muqtadi spontaneously recited ‘ سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه، سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه، سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه ’. The thing that needs to be considered in this saintly-miracle is that if the Jama’at had been offered at platform, it could have been said that the guard stopped the train by seeing a pious man offering Salah, but it did not happen, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered the Salah in the train. How could the guard know about it in this short period of time that a beloved bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ was offering Fard Salah in the train? (Hayat-e-A’la Hazrat, vol. 3, pp. 189)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to offer Maghrib Salah with Jama’at, hence he led the Salah of five people, though trains do not stop for such a long time during which Salah can be usually offered with calmness and perfection, and the same thing happened. The guard was also showing green flag to leave, but the train did not move as long as Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained busy offering Salah. As he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Salah, the train also started moving immediately. From this parable not only A’la Hadrat’s saintly-miracle is proved, but his love for the Salah with Jama’at (congregational Salah) is also revealed. Since he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a true devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه whether travelling or staying, would offer Salah with Jama’at which is very dear to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would himself say: I had to undergo long travelling, but I offered all five Salahs with Jama’at by the grace of Allah Almighty. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hazrat, pp. 75)

Dear Islamic sisters! Our A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه always offered Salah with Jama’at even during the journey.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Hajj second time at the age of 52. After performing the Hajj rites he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill in such a way that he remained in bed for more than two months due to the illness. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recovered to some extent, he got ready to visit the luminous Raudah and reached Rabigh after three days passing through Jeddah by a boat and then hired the conveyance of a camel to Madina-tul-Rasool. On the way, when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached Bair-e-Shaykh; his destination was near, but there was a little time for Fajr. The camel drivers decided to stop their camels at the destination, but until then the time of Fajr Salah had passed. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Having examined this situation my companions and I got off the camels and the caravan left. We had a canvas bucket, but no rope and the well was deep. We took the water out by tying many ‘Imamahs together with the bucket and then performed Wudu and offered Salah بِحَمْدِ اللہ تَعَالٰی . Now I was worried as to how I would walk so many miles because I had become very weak due to being ill for such a long time. As I turned my face I saw a strange camel driver standing with his camel waiting for me. I thanked to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and mounted it. People asked him how he brought the camel there. He replied that he was urged by Shaykh Husain to leave no stone unturned in serving A’la Hadrat. When we travelled a bit, I found that my camel driver was standing with his camel. When he was asked he replied: When the camel drivers of the caravan did not stop I thought that it would hurt the Shaykh that’s why I untied a camel from the caravan and brought it back here. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: All these are the favours of my Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, otherwise there was a great difference between me, the chief of Rabigh, Shaykh Husain, who I did not know, and the camel drivers, who were short-tempered, and their unusual manners i.e., they respected me a lot. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 217)

Dear Islamic sisters! سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed A’la Hadrat’s yearning for worship that he despite being ill for months and very weak and being carefree of every kind of troubles left the caravan, but did not miss Salah ‘ اَفضَلُ العِبادات ’ ‘ the most superior worship ’. Moreover, whenever he was able to stand, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah by standing. If his body did not have the energy, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would perform Qiyam, Ruku’ and Sujood with the

help of a staff. When he became very weak and fell seriously ill, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah, the dear act to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, by facing every kind of trouble and difficulty on his Nafs. Acting upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and persuading Muslim Ummah to act upon them are such acts which were the parts of Sayyidi A’la Hadrat’s life and character.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! To worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the aim of our life and a great act. Surely the way Salah and Sawm, Hajj and Zakat are all the acts of worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, similarly, every such act by which the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ can be obtained will also be included in the meaning of worship. Therefore, with good intention helping the poor, solving the problems of the needy, earning Halal sustenance for the household, making people happy, enjoining to do good and preventing from evils, gaining Islamic knowledge, developing the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the hearts of people, using writing skills for helping religion, weeping out of Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, etc., are also included in the meaning of worship and for them we will get reward as well by the Grace of Allah Almighty.

Similarly, if we see, we find that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his nights and days in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would spend every moment of his life in propagating Islamic knowledge, developing the reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the hearts of people, doing good to others and giving Tarbiyyat (training) to his friends, family members and well-wishers in every aspect.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often feel sad out of the love and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would see the blasphemous lines of blasphemous people, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would start weeping and would denounce them by giving scholarly answers. In blessed Hadaiq Bakhshish, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

کروں تیرے نام پہ جاں فِدا، نہ بس ایک جاں دوجہاں فِدا

دو جہاں سے بھی نہیں جی بھرا، کروں کیا کروڑوں جہاں نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would never send the poor back empty-handed and would always help them. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even made a will to his friends and family and relatives in his last days to take special care of the poor and give them good and delicious food hospitably from their own homes and not to scold them at all.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often remain busy writing and compiling books; he would go to the Masjid at the time of all five Salahs and would always offer Salah with Jama’at. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would stand up for reciting Salat and Salam at the time of making Zikr of blessed birth in the gathering of Meelad and would remain seated respectfully on knees in the rest of the time from beginning to end. In the same way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would deliver a speech, that is, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain on knees completely on pulpit for four to five hours. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 98)

May we also be privileged to sit on knees respectfully at the time of reciting and listening to the Holy Quran and at Ijtima of Zikr and Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Muzakarahs, Dars and Madani Halqahs, etc.! A’la Hadrat’s character was not only outstanding, but his appearance was also unique! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was of medium height, with a wide forehead, large eyes, long and beautiful nose; his face was long, complexion was wheaten and attractive. He was as fresh as a great combination of awe and beauty. His fingers were long, eyebrows were thick, neck was high and hair was long enough down to the ear lobes. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 80)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Why and how did he memorize the Holy Quran?

Caliph of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Sayyid Ayyub Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that one day A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Some unacquainted people write Haafiz before my name though I am not worthy of this title. Sayyid Ayyub Ali Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: Since that day A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started memorizing the Holy Quran at the time perhaps after Isha Wudu till the Jama’at of Isha.

He would memorize one part every day until he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memorized 30 parts in thirty days. On one occasion, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I have memorized the Holy Quran with efforts in a sequence because I do not want that whatever these bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ [who write Haafiz before my name] said should be wrong. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 208)

Avoid your praise!

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable not only have we learnt about the outstanding memory of A’la Hadrat, but we have also learnt that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would dislike very much the attributes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not possess but people would mention with regards to him. The same kind of event also occurred with the Imam of millions of Hanafis, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Piety of Imam-e-A’zam

Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship the first half night. One day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was passing through his way that he heard someone saying: He spends the whole night in worship. Thereafter he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship the whole night and would say: I feel shy from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the thing which is related to His عَزَّوَجَلَّ worship is said about me which I do not possess. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 353)

Dear Islamic sisters! The passion for avoiding false praise of Sayyiduna Imam-e- A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who is completely like him, is greatly welcome! May we also try to improve our character further instead of being pleased with the false and true praise being showered upon us!

Remember! It is not permissible as per Shar’iah to feel pleased with the false praise showered upon us. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If a person likes false praise to be showered on him, that is, people praise him with the virtues which he does not possess, so it is absolutely Haram. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 597)

Therefore, we should not let anyone praise us falsely, but rather if someone praises us with the attributes we possess, we should immediately reform her and advise her to refrain from praising us. From the sacred education of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees it has become obvious that the person who feels very pleased with her praise is very much disliked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and such kinds of men and women are usually surrounded by flatterers. These selfish people fool a person by praising her lavishly and achieve their targets [from those people]. They then make other people laugh by telling them the story how they fooled her. So everyone should be careful of the flatterers and of those who praise them in front of them and should not be pleased at all by listening to their own praise.

What should be done by listening to your own praise?

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Throw dust upon the faces of those who praise (Muslim, pp. 1600, Hadees 3002)

From this blessed Hadees we have obtained the Madani pearl that we should not be overjoyed to hear our own praise, but rather we should try to avoid it. When someone praises us truthfully, we should forbid her gently. If she does not refrain, so instead of being overjoyed we should make good intentions for the pleasure we are having, such as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed my sins and disclosed my acts of worship to people by His mercy. What will be more favourable than this that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ discloses the acts of worship of His bondwoman after concealing her sins.

Excellence of imparting Islamic knowledge

Dear Islamic sisters! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only had love for Salah and recitation [of the Holy Quran], but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also remain busy with the propagation of Islamic knowledge day and night that is a better deed

than Nafl deeds of worship because holding discussion and conversation even for a moment about the rulings on Islamic knowledge is better than worshipping the whole night. Let’s listen to few sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Islamic knowledge and then listen to the scholarly activities of Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

1 When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sent Sayyiduna Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to Yemen, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guides any one through you, so for you it is better than the world and whatever it contains.

(Zuhd li Ibn Mubarak, pp. 484, Hadees 1375)

2 The one who learns one chapter of knowledge to teach [it] to people will be given the reward of 70 Siddiqeen.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 119)

3 A Muslim cannot give better benefit to his Muslim brother that when he receives any good thing so he conveys it to his brother.

(Jaami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, pp. 62, Hadees 185)

4 When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills to do good to someone, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the understanding of religion upon him. (Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 41)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how great virtues there are for imparting Islamic knowledge! Keeping these virtues in mind if we see the blessed life of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه so it can be judged that he must have earned a great amount of reward. He spent his entire life in writing and making other write about Islamic knowledge, propagating Islamic knowledge and trying to reform people. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also do the work of (issuing Fatwas) answering to the (Istifta) questions along with a large number of activities of Islamic knowledge and this work was more than 10 expert Muftis because Istifta (Fatawa) would come to him from different cities and countries of the world such as India, Bangladesh, present Pakistan, China, Afghanistan, America, Africa and even blessed Haramayn Sharifayn. Sometimes, even 500 Istifta would pile up in a single time. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 449)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use to be busy in writing Fatawa and the reason for this act of being busy was his perfect expertise in the art of Ifta. That is why not only people but also great Islamic scholars and Muftis would also seek advice from him for research-based answers and for the solutions of complicated rulings. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written more or less 1000 books on different topics. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have given hundreds of thousands of Fatwas from 1286 AH to 1340 AH, but regretfully all Fatwas could not be copied. The collection of the Fatawa which were copied is famous by the name, ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’. Fatawa Razawiyyah consists of 30 volumes with total number of pages: 21,656; total number of questions and answers 6847 and total number of booklets: 206. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 10)

His farsightedness regarding Holy Quran, Hadees, Fiqh, logic and Kalam, etc., can be guessed by the study of his Fatawa because every Fatwa of his contains a large number of arguments. Surely his Fatawa are beautiful bouquets of every kind of rulings decorated with the teachings of Holy Quran, Hadees, Ijma’ and Shar’i laws explained by Islamic jurists which will continue to guide people until the world exists and will continue to bring about more rise in his high ranks at his blessed shrine.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Daurah [Madani visit] — one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! We should also perform abundant virtuous deeds for attaining Paradise and should not become lazy in them at all. Associate yourself with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, for attaining the passion for virtuous deeds. For the progress of virtuous deeds take part actively in 8 Madani activities. One of them is also ‘Madani visit’ by which the call towards righteousness is presented to Islamic sisters by visiting their houses. Attain the privilege of making ‘a Madani visit’ after changing the place and fixing any day of the week. At least 7 Islamic sisters (one of them should be elderly) make a Madani visit to the houses of their Zayli Halqah or the surroundings of their Zayli Halqah (in Pardah). Presenting

the call towards righteousness is such a Fareezah [Divine command] for which all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام or rather the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself was sent to this world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Madani activity has countless religious and worldly benefits.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani visit’ one acts upon the Sunnah of presenting the call towards righteousness of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani visit an Islamic sister propagates the Sunnah of meeting and saying Salam to other Islamic sisters.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani visit Islamic knowledge and precious Madani pearls full of call to righteousness are conveyed to Muslim Ummah.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani visit one gets help to make non-Salah-offering Islamic sisters Salah-offering.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madani visit the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is publicized. We, therefore, should perform abundant Madani activities and keep ourselves associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Let’s listen to a Madani parable about the association with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister living in Taxila (district Rawalpindi, Punjab) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being angry and peevish. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The communication of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attain the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the sounds/voices of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

If you also have attained any Madani blessing through Madani environment, so submit it to Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

Never missed Sawm

Dear Islamic sisters! Despite being busy full time with religious activities A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would eat little food. His common food was roti made of the flour ground in a flour mill and mutton Qaurmah. In his last days, this food further reduced to mere a cup of mutton soup without chilli and one or one and a half biscuits made of semolina. He was extremely simple in eating and drinking (water etc.). (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 113)

In the blessed month of Ramadan, this food used to get further reduced. The caliph of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Muhammad Husain Mirathi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I observed I’tikaf from the 20 th of the blessed Ramadan. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to the Masjid and said, ‘I also want to observe I’tikaf, but I do not get free time [because of religious activities]’. Finally, on the 26 th blessed Ramadan, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I should become Mu’takif from today. Maulana Muhammad Husain Mirathi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: In the evening, I did not see A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه eating food on any day [though he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would break his Sawm with date, etc.]. At Sahari, Feerni (sweet dish of rice, milk and

sugar) in a small bowl and chutney in a cup would be brought to him which he would eat. One day, I asked him: Your highness! What is the match between Feerni and chutney? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: To start eating with salt and end eating with salt are a Sunnah. Hence chutney is brought to me. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 113)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The embodiment of Sunnah A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use salty chutney before and after sweet Feerni to act upon the Sunnah of using salt in the beginning and end of eating food. Eating salt (or salty thing) in the beginning and end of food removes 70 diseases, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 658)

Dear Islamic sisters! Despite eating so little food A’la Hadrat never missed a Sawm. His nephew and caliph Maulana Hasanayn Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: About the Qada of Sawm I have never heard from any of his elders, and nor from anyone who is of his age, and nor have we [younger] have seen him doing Qada of the Sawm of this blessed month.

Sometimes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill in the blessed month of Ramadan, but he did not miss a Sawm. If someone insistently asked him humbly that weakness, in such a state, will further increase due to Sawm so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Should I not undergo treatment if I am a patient? People would surprisingly say: Is Sawm a treatment? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: It is an effective treatment. It is the treatment mentioned by my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ صُوْمُوا تَصِحُّوا ’ i.e. observe Sawm, you will become healthy. (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 146, Hadees 8312)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat was one of the perfect pious saints who were very careful about the grandeur of Divine obligations. When the month of Ramadan of 1339 H began in May, June 1921 and due to being constantly ill and being very weak A’la Hadrat did not find the energy to observe Sawm of summer, he issued this Fatwa for himself: It is cold on the mountain, observing Sawm is possible

there, therefore it has become mandatory for me to go there for observing Sawm since I can afford to go there. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then went to Koh-e-Bhowali, district Nainital with the intention to observe Sawm.

(Tajalliyat-e-Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 133)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how little food A’la Hadrat would eat! May we also get rid of the habit of eating a lot and make the habit of observing Qufl-e-Madinah! Apart from it, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would be so careful regarding performing obligatory acts of worship that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started observing Siyam at the age of 7 and until his last days he neither missed any Sawm nor needed to do Qada of any Sawm. But alas! At present, in our society, people make many efforts and make lame excuses for missing the Siyam of Ramadan and miss Siyam without any valid reason.

Remember! No one is allowed to miss a Sawm due to a headache, nausea, slight fever, cough and other minor illnesses, though there are some compulsions due to which a person is allowed not to observe Sawm in blessed Ramadan. But, remember, Sawm is not exempted in any compulsion, but rather its Qada is mandatory when the compulsion is over. However, there will be no sin of Qada, but nowadays it is observed that people miss Sawm due to a slight cold, fever or headache or مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they break it after observing. It should not be done at all. If someone misses a Sawm without any valid Shar’i compulsion, she cannot attain the excellence of that Sawm, though later on she observes Siyam for her whole life.

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed month of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak passed few days ago which was spreading its fragrance, illuminating the world with Anwaar [light], illuminating the hearts of the sinners like us and making ways for our forgiveness. It is possible that any Islamic sister might have missed the Siyam [fasts] of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak just because of laziness and heedlessness. It is a humble Madani request to such Islamic sisters that being concerned for your own Hereafter and fearing Divine wrath, seek repentance

for all the Siyam you have broken early or missed to date, pay Kaffarah as well after seeking Shar’i guidance if it needs to be paid and also observe those missed Siyam now. For learning about observing missed Siyam, laws of Kaffarah and the method of paying Kaffarah, study from pages 1081 to 1088 of “ Faizan-e-Sunnat ”, an excellent book of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . In fact, make efforts and study the complete book from the beginning till the end; اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will gain priceless treasure of knowledge. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us ability to act upon it.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah

Dear Islamic sisters! Dawat-e-Islami is making efforts to propagate Islamic teachings in approximately 104 departments which are serving Islam. One of them is Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah as well which has taken on the task of purely knowledge-related, research and publication work, having the yearning for reforming the Ummah. For example, delivering important information of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadith to the people, presenting the Arabic books of the pious predecessors with an easy Urdu translation for the easiness and benefit of the people, solving the problems of the textbooks for the students of Dars-e-Nizami i.e. Aalim course, and writing books and booklets on the blessed life histories of the “blessed Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt” and honourable Awliya are all included in the written achievements of Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah.

Appreciating these very efforts of Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه said on one occasion: ‘I have the experience of the fact that how difficult it was to prepare Bayan before. Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah has now given a lot of material to the Muballighin through its books. You also make the intention of reading all the books of Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah.’ Moreover, the blessed ‘Ulama and Muftis who occasionally visit from Pakistan and abroad also become happy by the written

work of Al Madina-tu-Ilmiyyah and make many Du’as for it. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless “Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah” with more success.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Madani pearls of studying

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding study. First listen to 2 sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ Certainly, knowledge is acquired through learning. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 41, Hadees 67)

٭ World is cursed and everything in it is also cursed except for the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, [except for] His wali i.e. friend and the one who learns and teaches religious knowledge. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 144, Hadees 2329)

٭ Study is the means of strengthening the Iman. (Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 17)

٭ Knowledge increases through study. (Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 18)

٭ Study is a means of gaining Ma’rifat. (Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

٭ By studying, a person develops the mindset of pondering over the universe. (Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

٭ Study increases the intellect and awareness. (Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

٭ Always keep away from such books, booklets and newspapers consisting of indecent pictures and immoral content that pose a risk to your Iman.

(Mutala’ah kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 29)

٭ In order to learn about the blessed life-histories of the pious predecessors and to adopt their righteous deeds, it is also necessary to read the books containing information about their blessed lives.

(Ibid, pp. 33)

٭ Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When you are going to seek any branch of knowledge or read anything, it is better that your knowledge and study bring about Tazkiyah Nafs (purification of the self) and spiritual reformation. (Ibid, pp. 32)

٭ Like medicines are taken and Wazaaif (Islamic invocations) are recited for strengthening memory, the act of reading is also a prescription for it.

(Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ Try to keep a book with you every time as whenever you get any opportunity, read some pages of it, and by adopting this habit, one will keep engaged in the company of book. (Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ After finishing a book, it is recommended to give a bird’s eye view from start to end to what you have read and learned. Keep its summary commit to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ It is also useful to make accountability yourself examining as to what you have learned and which content is committed to your memory and which is not committed to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ For remembering anything, it is beneficial to pressurise your mind by closing your eyes. (Ibid, pp. 117)

٭ Whatever you read, share it with your family members and friends with good intentions; this is also a way to preserve the treasure of information in our mind for a long period. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ Whatever you read, keep repeating it. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ In Madani Muzakarahs, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه delivers interesting and precious Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge. By the blessings of these Madani Muzakarahs, one develops a strong keenness for reading further, acting upon what is read and conveying it to others.

(Ibid, pp. 115)

