اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s Devotion to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me ten times in the morning and ten times in the evening will be granted my intercession on the Day of Judgement.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 312, Hadees 991)

دُکھوں نے جو تم کو گھیرا ہے تو دُرود پڑھو جو حاضری کی تمنّا ہے تو دُرود پڑھو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Intentions of delivering the Bayan

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ are sufficient for Siddeeq!

It is stated on page 269 of ‘Faizan-e-Siddeeq-e-Akbar’ a 719-page book, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to the blessed Companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ: Give your possession for Sadaqah in the way of Allah, in obedience to this splendid saying, the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ gave Sadaqah from their possessions as much as they could afford. Sayyiduna ‘Usman Zun-Nurayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave goods of Sadaqah for 10,000 Mujahideen and spent 10,000 dinars. Furthermore, saying Labbayk upon the saying of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also presented 900 camels and 100 horses with goods. (Seerah Halbiyah, vol. 3, pp. 184)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: I also had possessions and I thought that Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ surpasses me in these matters every time, this time by giving more possessions in Sadaqah I will surpass him. He went to his home and collected the whatever he owned, divided it into two parts, and then left one part for his family members and the second part he took and presented to the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, O ‘Umar! ‘ What have you left for your family?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I have left half of the possessions for my family.’ Just then Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ arrived with his possessions. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was wearing a simple Qaba (i.e. a kind of coat which is open from the front) which had buttons that were made of acacia thorns. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was very pleased to see Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and asked: ‘ O Abu Bakr! What have you left for your family?’

The beloved only asked this thing and the heart of the true lover rejoiced with the fragrance of love; he realized at once that there was something else because the beloved knew it that my true lover has sacrificed his life, wealth, children everything when there were hardly any supporters in Makkah Mukarramah, instead, most of the people became enemies and how could he not understand the Kalaam of his beloved because he was a lover who was

always looking for this opportunity: Let the Beloved ask for something! Everything will be brought to sacrifice at his feet (and would humbly say that):

کیا پیش کریں جاناں کیا چیز ہماری ہے

یہ دل بھی تمہارا ہے یہ جاں بھی تمہاری ہے

He was a true lover who never considered his possessions to be his own, but whatever he had, he would consider it to be the bestowal of the beloved. He instantly understood that the desire of the beloved was something else. Perhaps the beloved wants to say that: O my lover! I know your love; tell the world what is called love. Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in a loving tone humbly said: ‘ اَبْقَیْتُ لَھُمُ اللہَ وَرَسُوْ لَہٗ ’ i.e. I have come to you with all the possessions of my home; for my family members, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are sufficient. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was astonished to hear this and stated: I can never surpass Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 380, Hadees 3695)

In the meantime, the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ saw that the special messenger of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Jibraeel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـل َ ام arrived at the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, dressed in the same clothing as Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: O Jibraeel! What are you wearing? He humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Today, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded all the angels to wear the same clothing as your true lover, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and besides this, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends Salam to him and asks if he is pleased or displeased with his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this condition. Upon hearing this message of love, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became extremely delighted and emotional and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How could I be displeased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated three times: I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 30)

Wear clothes like the true lovers

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The heart of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a fountain of love for Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would always surpass other blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ in obedience to the commands of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Undoubtedly, attaining the will and the pleasure of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the essence of his life, therefore without any hesitation, he placed his entire wealth at the blessed feet of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loved his action so much that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ commanded His innocent angels: You also wear clothes like this true lover of My Beloved.

طبیبِ ہر مریضِ لا دوا صدّیقِ اکبر ہیں غریبوں بے کسوں کا آسرا صدّیقِ اکبر ہیں

Introduction to the book ‘Faizan-e-Siddeeq-e-Akbar’

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely effective to study the 719-page book namely ‘Faizan-e-Siddeeq-e-Akbar’, published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, for further information about Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s biography and love for Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The different beautiful aspects of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s life such as his childhood, youth, circumstances before and after his embracing Islam, his attributes, migration and battles, faith-refreshing incidents of his selflessness and faithfulness, stages of becoming caliph and incidents which occurred after he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became the first caliph of Islam, these and much more have all been written in an extremely beautiful manner in this book. Therefore, obtain this book today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself and also persuade other Islamic brothers to study it. This book can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Zikr-e-Khayr (good remembrance) of the lovers of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done, then first of all the

greatest lover, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ enters to our hearts and minds. Let’s listen to a brief introduction to Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for attaining blessings and mercy.

Brief introduction to Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar

The respected name of the first caliph of Islam, the Leader of the Believers, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is ‘Abdullah. His Kunyah [patronymic appellation] is ‘Abu Bakr’ and his titles are Siddeeq and ‘Ateeq. The meaning of ‘Siddeeq’ is ‘One who speaks the truth very much’. He was referred to by this title even in the period of ignorance because he always spoke the truth. The meaning of ‘Ateeq’ is ‘freed’. Giving him glad tidings, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَنْتَ عَتِیْقُ اللہِ مِنَ النَّارِ ’ i.e. ‘ (O Abu Bakr!) You are the one who is freed from the fire of Hell .’ This is why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ received this title.

(Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, p.22-23)

He is ‘Qurayshi’, and seven generations above, his genealogical tree joins with that of the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was born in Makkah Mukarramah, approximately two and half years after ‘Aam-ul-Feel’ (Year of the Elephant). The leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is that companion who was the first free man to testify to the Prophethood of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم among all the people. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ possesses such noble virtues and excellences that after the Honourable Prophets عَلَيْهِمُ السَّلَام, he is the greatest and most highly ranked of all mankind.

Amongst all the freemen, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was the first to embrace Islam, and being a minister and an advisor of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every decision in war and in peace, he proved his loyalty and allegiance by supporting the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at every step of life. After a splendid reign of caliphate that lasted two years and three months, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away on 22 Jumadal Ukhra, in the 13 th year after Hijri (migration to Madinah Munawwarah) after spending blessed Monday. The leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ led the funeral prayer and Sayyiduna

Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was buried inside the blessed tomb beside the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 27-62)

جو یارِ غارِ محبوبِ خدا صدّیقِ اکبر ہیں وُہی یارِ مزارِ مُصطَفٰے صدّیقِ اکبر ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Glory of Siddeeq-e-Akbar in the Glorious Quran!

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possessed so many attributes for which this brief time is insufficient to be mentioned. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was incomparable in the matters of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love for Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, fulfilling the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the rights of people. The real purpose of his life was to have a compassionate relationship with relatives and good manners, destruction of the enemies of Islam and glory of Islam. By virtue of his character he has conveyed the messages to the world until it exists as to what kind of relationship and love an Ummati should have to his Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ loved Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than his desires, wealth, children, relatives even his own life and always sustained this love in his heart. As a result, pleased by his deeds the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم praised him on many occasions; even different blessed verses in many places of the Glorious Quran were revealed in his praises. It is stated in verse 19 to 21 of Surah Al-Layl, part 30:

وَ مَا لِاَحَدٍ عِنۡدَ ہٗ مِنۡ نِّعۡمَۃٍ تُجۡزٰۤ ی ﴿ۙ۱۹﴾

اِلَّا ابۡتِغَآءَ وَجۡہِ رَبِّہِ الۡاَعۡلٰی ﴿ۚ۲۰﴾ وَ لَسَوۡفَ یَرۡضٰی ﴿٪۲۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And no one has done a favour to him, for which he should be compensated. He desires only to please his Lord, the Supreme. And indeed, soon he will be very pleased.

(Part 30, Surah Al-Layl, verse 19-21)

Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has said: When Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ at a very high price and freed him, the unbelievers were astonished and said: Why did Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ do this? Perhaps Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did him a favour, that’s why he bought him by paying a very high price and freed him. Upon this, a blessed verse was sent and it was disclosed that this act of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, not the return of someone’s favour and nor was there any favour of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for him. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ freed many slaves after buying them due to them embracing Islam. (Khaza’in-ul-Irfan, pp. 1108)

سبھی اَصحاب سے بڑھ کر مقرَّب ذات ہے ان کی رفیقِ سرورِ اَرض و سما صدیقِ اکبر ہیں

Dear Islamic brothers! As a matter of fact, all the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ had great love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but the deep love of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was unique. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ crossed those stages of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم due to which love and obedience to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became his habit. Many blessed Ahadees are replete with his glory and praises. Let’s listen to some of them.

Owner of life and wealth

On one occasion, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَا نَفَعَنِیْ مَالٌ قَــطُّ مَا نَفَعَنِیْ مَالُ اَبِیْ بَکْرٍ ’, i.e. No one’s wealth benefited me as much as the wealth of Abu Bakr. ‘ فَبَـكىٰ اَبُو بَكْرٍ وَقَالَ هَلْ اَنَا وَمَالِي اِلَّا لَكَ يَا رَسُولَ اللَّهِ ’ (upon hearing this) Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started weeping and humbly said: You are the owner of my life and my wealth.

On another occasion, the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned the overflowing sacrifices and love of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq in these words: ‘ مَا لِاَحَدٍ عِنْدَنَا يَدٌ اِلَّا وَقَدْ كَافَيْنَاهُ مَا خَلاَ اَبَا بَكْرٍ فَاِنَّ عِنْدَنَا يَدًا يُكَافِیْہِ اللَّہُ بِها يَـوْمَ القِيَامَۃِ ’, i.e. The people

who had a favour upon us, we have given them in return, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant the return of Abu Bakr’s favours upon him, on the Day of Judgement.

Companion of the Beloved Prophet in Kaunayn (this world and the Hereafter)

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: ‘ اَنْتَ صَاحِبِیْ عَلَی الْحَوْضِ وَ صَاحِبِی فِی الْغَارِ ’, i.e. You are my companion by the pond of Kawsar and the cave of Saur.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the grace and blessing of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that not only in journey and residence but everywhere he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was blessed with the companionship of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he was even given the good news of being a companion of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the pond of Kawsar.

جو یارِ غارِ محبوبِ خدا صِدِّیق اکبر ہیں

وُہی یارِ مزارِ مُصطَفٰے صِدِّیق اکبر ہیں

عُمر سے بھی وہ اَفضل ہیں وہ عُثمان سے بھی اَعلٰی ہیں

یقینًا پیشوائے مُرتضٰی صِدِّیق اکبر ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Signs of love

Dear Islamic brothers! Love has some signs that are considered to be the evidences of a true lover. Furthermore, after seeing these signs, people believe that he loves so-and-so person very much. For example, a lover obeys his beloved in every matter; talks about him all the time; adopts his likes and avoids his dislikes, etc. When this love reaches its peak, it becomes (‘Ishq) devotion. As love has some signs, similarly devotion also has some signs. In their books at many places, our pious predecessors have mentioned different signs of true lovers.

Signs of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

Imam Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned the signs of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which will be presented to you briefly. Whoever adopts them will be a true lover of the Beloved Rasool, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Iqtida: The greatest sign of love for the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to obey him, to act upon his Sunnah, to follow his path, to seek guidance from his life and to abide by his Shari’ah. (Al-Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 491)

2. Be content with the Shari’ah: One of the signs of loving the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that the one who claims love, should be content with the Shari’ah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and should not face any hardship in his Nafs by the decision of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 493)

3. To help the religion of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: It is one of the signs of loving the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that one should help the religion of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through his sayings and actions, defend his Shari’ah and adopt his blessed life in generosity and follow his blessed way of living in the matters of forbearance, endurance, humility, etc. (Al Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 494)

4. Being patient on hardships: One of the signs of loving the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also this that one should remain patient in times of hardships because the lover gets such a pleasure by this love that he forgets his hardships. (Al-Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 495)

Sayyidi A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has beautifully said:

کیوں کہوں بیکس ہوں میں کیوں کہوں بے بس ہوں میں

تم ہو میں تم پہ فِدا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

5. Make abundant Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: One of the signs of loving the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that the lover should make the Zikr of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a lot, because one who loves someone talks about him a lot. Some have said: Love is the name of remembering the beloved forever. A saint has said: The Zikr of the beloved should be done as much as we have breath.

(Al- Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 495)

A person has said: for the lover there are three signs (1) His Kalaam (speech) should be the Zikr (remembrance) of the beloved (2) In silence there should be thoughts of the beloved (3) and his practice must be in obedience to the beloved.

Imam Muhasabi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘The sign of lovers is to make abundant Zikr of the beloved, that is to say, neither do they stop this Zikr nor do they feel bored or tired to make the Zikr of the beloved. (Al- Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 495)

جو نہ بھُولا ہم غریبوں کو رض ؔ ا یاد اُس کی اپنی عادت کیجئے

That person who has these attributes, develops perfect love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and that person who opposes some of them, develops deficient love, but he is not excluded from the lovers. It is stated in a blessed Hadees that a person who was punished for drinking wine, was cursed by some people, and said he was brought for punishment again and again. Upon hearing this, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Do not curse him, because he loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), i.e. despite him committing sins, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: This person loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).

(Al- Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 501)

دنیا کی لذّتوں سے مِری جان چُھوٹ جائے مجھ کو بنادے یا خدا تُو عاشقِ رسول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Three desires fulfilled

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat has said: For the sake of his love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfilled all these three desires of Sayyiduna Siddeeq- e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ:

1. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was blessed with the company of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in journeys and during residence, to the extent that even in the loneliness of the cave of Saur, he was the only one to be blessed with the honour of viewing the blessed face of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

2. Similarly, his sacrifices of wealth were of so great that he was fortunate enough to sacrifice his entire wealth at the feet of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

3. Even in the enlightened tomb, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted his everlasting companionship and closeness to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . (‘Aashiq-e-Akbar, pp.14)

ہلاکت خیز طُغیانی ہو یا ہوں موجیں طوفانی نہ ڈُوبے اپنا بیڑا ناخدا صِدّیقِ اکبر ہیں

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed biography of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the real mirror of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even his character was the best standard of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to some faith-refreshing parables of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that we too may develop more love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in our hearts.

May I sacrifice my life for you!

In the beginning of Islam, when the number of blessed companions became 38, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ now requested the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for permission to preach the message of Islam openly.’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted his permission and all the Muslims went to Masjid-ul-Haraam, where the first orator of Islam, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr

رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ began to deliver his speech. As soon as the speech started, the disbelievers and polytheists attacked the Muslims from all directions. Despite the fact that the honour and dignity of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was acknowledged all over Makkah, the disbelievers still attacked him so severely that his blessed face was badly injured and he began to bleed until he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ became unconscious.

When the people of his tribe came to know about his condition they picked him up from there. They began to think that he may not survive. Then in the evening, when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ recovered and regained consciousness, the first words to leave his blessed truthful lips were, ‘How is the Prophet of Allah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)?’ Upon hearing this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was scolded by the people who said, ‘It is because of your support of him that you are suffering this misfortune, even then you are still calling only his name!’

The respected mother of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr, Umm-ul-Khayr brought some food for him but there was still only one statement on his lips, ‘How is the Prophet of Allah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)?’ When his mother told him that she did not know, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘Please ask Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا [the sister of Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ ].’ In order to fulfil this heartfelt request of her beloved son in his oppressed state, his mother went to Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and asked about the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Due to the unfavourable circumstances of the time, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had still hidden her Islam, and because Umm-ul-Khayr had not yet become a Muslim, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا pretended not to know saying, ‘I don’t know who Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is and I don’t know who Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is. However, hearing the condition of your son has caused me sorrow; if you like I could come with you to see him.’

Then Umm-ul-Khayr took Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to her home. When Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw the unfortunate condition of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ she could not control herself and she began to weep. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘Give me good news of the wellbeing of my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا signalled to his mother to draw his attention towards her.

When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘Don’t be afraid of her’, she رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا then said, ‘By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is safe and sound, and presently he is at Dar-ul-Arqam [the home of Sayyiduna Arqam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ ].’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will not eat or drink anything until I see the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ When everyone had gone, his mother and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا took him to the blessed presence of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at Dar-ul-Arqam. When the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw his great lover, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to weep and stepped forward, embraced him and started embracing him.

Having seen this, all the Muslims rushed towards him with strong emotions. Seeing Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, who was severely wounded, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became emotional, then Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said to the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my mother and father be sacrificed upon you, I am alright, only my face has been a little wounded.’

یہ اِک جان کیا ہے اگر ہوں کروڑوں ترے نام پر سب کو وارا کروں میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Take part in the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs which are arranged by Dawat-e-Islami to serve the blessed Sunnah. The 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs are very helpful to guide Muslims to follow the Sunan and to convey the message of the Glorious Quran and the blessed Sunnah to the lovers of the Beloved Rasool. One of the 12 Madani activities is to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ begins after Salat-ul-Maghrib (at many places) with the recitation of Surah Al-Mulk. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘By the One in Whose power is my life! To listen to one verse of the book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is greater than giving Sadaqah equal to the mountain (Jabal-e-Sabeer). (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 8, pp. 82, Hadees 24615)

You are requested to overcome your laziness and regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, from beginning to end and become deserving of great rewards. The blessings of the Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ can be judged from the following Madani parable!

Repentance of a classical singer

An Islamic brother of Orangi Town (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi) has stated: Unfortunately, I was a singer. I was ruining my life in musical concerts. I was so heedless that I neither offered Salah nor felt guilty about my sins.

Fortunately, the individual efforts of a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e- Islami convinced me to attend the 3 day Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ held in 1424 A.H., 2003 in Sahra-e-Madinah near the Toll Plaza, Super Highway, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. On the last day, we all attended a very passionate and heart-rending Du’a that made me feel guilty about my evil deeds. I could not control my emotions and burst into tears, which softened my heart.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I joined Dawat-e-Islami, repented of attending musical concerts and began to travel with Madani Qafilahs. On 25 th December 2004, as I was about to leave home to travel with a Madani Qafilah when I received a phone call from my younger sister who was very sad. She gave me the news of her new born baby girl who was born blind and told me that doctors remarked that her baby would never be able to see. As she was talking, she could not hold herself back and began to cry. I encouraged her by saying that I would pray for her baby in the Madani Qafilah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

During the Madani Qafilah, I made Du’as myself and asked the Islamic brothers of the Madani Qafilah to make Du’a as well. It was my second day back from the Madani Qafilah, I received another phone call from my sister but this time she was extremely happy. She told me that her baby Mahak had got her eyesight, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Amazed, the doctors remarked they don’t know how this happened because they didn’t have any cure for it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, I am blessed with the opportunity to carry out the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami as a member of the ‘Alaqai Mushawarat in Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi.

Majlis for Special Islamic Brothers!

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is spreading the message of righteousness in over 100 departments to persuade people to develop their love for the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the blessed companions and to follow their blessed life. One of these departments is ‘Department of Special Islamic Brothers’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the blind, deaf and dumb Islamic brothers are called ‘special Islamic brothers’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Majlis is busy spreading the call towards righteousness among the special Islamic brothers and helping them to become of good character in the society. In addition to this, ‘Majlis for Special Islamic Brothers’ intends to publish books comprising of Fard Uloom for special Islamic brothers.

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دُھوم مَچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ وَالَّذِى نَفْسِى بِيَدِہٖ ، لَقَرَابَةُ رَسُولِ اللَّهِ صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم اَحَبُّ اِ لَىَّ اَنْ اَصِلَ مِنْ قَـرَابَتِى ’, By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Regarding having kind relationship with relatives, the relatives of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are more favourite and beloved to me than my own relatives. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 538, Hadees 3712)

Madani pearls obtained from the love of Siddeeq-e-Akbar!

Dear Islamic brothers! From the blessed love-filled life of Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ, another lesson that we can learn is that our sorrows should not be for the sake of this world, our tears should not flow in the love for this world, and our hearts should not feel sudden pain for worldly glory. On the contrary, the desire of our heart should be for the love of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, our tears should flow in the remembrance of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم instead of this world. We should not be obsessed with this world, but we should become loving towards the Beloved

Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should sacrifice our wishes for the wishes of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and our only desire should be to sacrifice our wealth and our life for the honour of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Alas! The majority of Muslims today are being disgraced and humiliated, because they have become obsessed with the ways and fashions of the enemies of Islam instead of adopting the ‘Uswah-e-Hasanah’ (perfect example) of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as their ideal way of life. Indeed, those who love their parents do not hurt their feelings. Those who love their children do not let them become unhappy. No one would like to see his friend sad because no one displeases the one whom he loves. But unfortunately, today the deeds of the majority of Muslims, who claim to love the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, are not those which are pleasing to the most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘ جُـعِـلَتْ قُـرَّة ُ عَـیْنِیْ فِـی الـصَّـلٰوة ’ ‘The coolness of my eyes is in Salah.’ (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 20, pp. 420, Hadees 1012)

What kind of lovers of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are those people who cause pain to the enlightened heart of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by not caring about their Salahs and by missing their Salahs intentionally? What type of love and devotion is this that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم laid stress on fasting in Ramadan, but those who call themselves lovers of the beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم avoid following this command, therefore becoming the cause of displeasure for the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم encourages the performance of Taraweeh prayers, but heedless followers do not perform them, and if they do, they just ritually perform them for the first few days of Ramadan and then assume that the Taraweeh prayers for the whole of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak are done. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Trim your moustaches very much and leave your beards [i.e. let them grow] and do not make your appearance like that of the Yahood [Jews].’

(Sharh Ma’ani, Hadees 6422, vol. 4, page, 28)

But the followers of fashion who claim to love the Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم make their faces resemble the enemies of the Beloved Prophet. Is this love for the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Perform Fikr-e-Madinah [1]! What kind of love and what kind of devotion is this that people feel pride in looking like and acting like the enemies of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?

O true lovers of the Beloved Rasool! Sacrifice yourself for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and spend your life in his slavery, rather in the slavery of his slaves and Dawat-e-Islami and the travel of its Madani Qafilahs and become deserving of his intercession after death. Allow your face to show it to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement, i.e. adorn your faces with a (proper) beard; instead of having English haircuts, grow Zulfayn (Sunnah-conforming hairstyle) and instead of being bare-headed, wear the blessed ‘Imamah (turban). In short, add the Madani colour to your inside and outside.

Real cause of Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s demise

Dear Islamic brothers! How emotionally and tearfully Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has expressed his affection and devotion in the couplets! According to some narrations that the apparent demise of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the real cause of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s demise. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: The real cause of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq’s demise was the apparent demise of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The body of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started to constantly become weak after the apparent demise of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and finally Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also passed away. (Mustadrak, vol. 6, pp. 4, Hadees 4466)

مر ہی جاؤں میں اگر اس دَر سے جاؤں دو قدم

کیا بچے بیمارِ غم قُربِ مسیحا چھوڑ کر

Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his entire life obeying the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even due to the intense love of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of his demise Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ desired to be blessed with the same day on which the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had apparent passed away. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also desired for the shroud that was used for the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: When the time of her father Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s demise approached he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: “What was the day of the Beloved Prophet’s apparent demise? I replied: “On Monday.” He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: “What day is today”? I replied: ‘Today is Monday.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: “I would like to depart this life till tonight (so that my day of demise could be similar to the Beloved Prophet’s day of apparent demise).

(Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 1387, vol. 1, page, 468)

She further said, my father Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked me: ‘How many pieces of cloth were there in the shroud of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ I humbly said: “There were three pieces of cloth in the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم shroud.” Having heard this he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw the pieces of cloths that had stains of saffron or Musk spread beneath him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Keep it in the shroud and include two more pieces of cloth.’ (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, page, 257)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Ya Rasoolallah! Abu Bakr is here!

Dear Islamic brothers! The way Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was blessed with the companionship of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his life, similarly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ at the time of his demise expressed the desire to attain the closeness of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم has said: I was present with Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in the last moments of his blessed life. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to me, ‘O Ali! When I have passed away,

give me Ghusl (the ritual bath) with the blessed bowl from which the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given Ghusl, then after wrapping the shroud around me take my body to the enlightened tomb of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and then, seek permission from the court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by saying ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ یَارَسُوْلَ اللہِ! ھٰذَا اَبُوْبَکْر یَسْتَاْذِنُ ’ ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Salam be upon you, Abu Bakr is present and seeks permission.’ If the door of the blessed Mausoleum opens, bury me in there and if permission is not granted, then bury me in the graveyard of the Muslims (Jannat-ul-Baqi’).’

Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم said: “Having given Ghusl and enshrouding Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the body was placed at the door of the Beloved’s Mausoleum, and was humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Abu Bakr seeks your permission. Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم said: As soon as I said my words, I saw that the door of the Mausoleum of the beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) opened and a voice came from inside:

اَدۡخِلُوا الۡحَبِيۡبَ اِلَي الۡحَبِيۡبِ فَاِنَّ الۡحَبِيۡبَ اِلَي الۡحَبِيۡبِ مُشۡتَاقٌ

‘Enter the beloved to the beloved, for surely the beloved eagerly awaits the beloved.’ Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was buried at the side of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Khasais, vol. 2, page, 492)

وہ یارِ غار بھی ہیں تو یارِ مزار بھی بُوبکر آج بھی تو ہیں ہر دَم نبی کے ساتھ

After narrating the abovementioned parable, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi has stated on page 43 of his booklet ‘Aashiq-e-Akbar’ [Unparalleled Devotee]:

Dear Islamic brothers! Think carefully! If Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ did not believe that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is alive then he would never have made a will in which he requested for his body to be placed in front of the enlightened tomb of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and for the people to request permission for him to enter. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ made that will and the other blessed companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم acted upon that as directed. So, from this also it is proven that it was the ‘Aqeedah [belief] of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ and of all the blessed companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم that even after his apparent demise, the most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is alive in his enlightened tomb and is the possessor of power and authority, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have had the privilege of listening to Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s devotion to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Nobody else can ever attain the status that Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has attained in devotion to the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ A glimpse of devotion to the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be seen in every deed of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Whenever he had the opportunity, he did not hesitate to sacrifice his wealth, children and even his own life upon the saying of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Due to the great love that Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he granted Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the certificate of his companionship at the pond of Kawsar.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ not only spent his life obeying the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but he also made a will to obey the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after his apparent demise in the matters of funeral and burial. He had closeness to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in life, similarly after death, he also had the privilege and honour of being blessed with this close company.

Dear Islamic brothers! It has also been learnt that a true lover of the Beloved Rasool is that person who considers the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be the owner of his life and wealth. A true lover of the beloved Rasool is one who adopts the Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; who grows his beard, wears an ‘Imamah, has a Sunnah-conforming hairstyle, applies kohl at the time of sleeping, sleeps on a straw-mat, uses a Miswak, smiles with the intention of practicing upon a Sunnah according to the situation, etc.

A true lover of the Beloved Rasool is that person who is content with the Shari’ah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, one who helps Islam through his character and speech, who defends the Shari’ah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and adopts the blessed life history of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in generosity, spending his wealth on parents, siblings, children, close relatives, and one who spends his wealth for the religion. A true lover of the Beloved Rasool is one who contains himself when he is angry, one who remains patient in times of troubles, does Zikr-e-Rasool abundantly, shows great respect when Zikr of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done, kisses his thumbs upon hearing the blessed name of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, rejoices and recites Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. A true lover of the Beloved Rasool is one who has a deep yearning to meet and behold the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is one who loves the Holy Quran, one who besides acting upon the sacred Sunnah, also desires to read his blessed Hadees.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

8 Madani pearls of a conversation

1. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who remains silent, attains salvation.’ (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 225, Hadees 2509)

2. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

3. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before them.

4. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a new born baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

5. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

6. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

7. Do not laugh while talking. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never laughed.

8. Excessive talking and frequent laughing affect one’s prestige.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-Inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

Click here to read

