اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Salah of Allah-fearing People

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ زَیِّنُوْا مَجَا لِسَکُمْ بِا لصَّلَا ۃِ عَلَیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاَ تَکُمْ عَلَیَّ نُوْ رٌ لَّکُمْ یَوْمَ ا لقِیَامَۃِ ’ Beautify your gatherings by

reciting Salat upon me; because the Salat that you recite upon me, will be Noor for you on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 280, Hadees 4580)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Salah obligatory for us and promised us great blessings and gifts in the world and the Hereafter for offering Salah. When our pious predecessors would offer Salah, they would be present in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with apparent and spiritual manners after being totally carefree of worldly thoughts and their surroundings. Let’s listen to the condition of these righteous people’s Salah.

Devotee of Salah and Holy Quran

Talking about the spiritual exercises and acts of worship of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and relating the event of two blessed companions, Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated:

Once, we went to a Ghazwah (battle) along with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . On the way back, we passed through a mountainous area where the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered us to stay. All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم stayed there to rest. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Who amongst you will keep a watch tonight?’ A Muhajir and an Ansari companion رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا stood up and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! We would like to have this privilege; please accept us. They both got ready to keep watch after taking permission.

Both consulted with each other and then Ansari Sahabi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Let’s do one thing-one of us will keep watch in the first half of the night while the other is asleep, then the other one will keep watch the remaining half of the night while the first one is asleep.’ Therefore, you rest while I am awake, then you keep watch.

Thus, the Muhajir companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started having a rest and the Ansari companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got ready to keep watch. After a while, he started offering Salah and reciting Surah Al-Kahf. An enemy came and climbed onto a hilltop and saw that a person was offering Salah; he drew his bow, and taking an aim fired an arrow to the blessed companion. The arrow pierced his body, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not move and remained busy offering Salah. That cruel enemy shot another arrow that also entered his blessed body, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not break his Salah. He then shot the third arrow which also came straight

and pierced his body after injuring him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ performed Ruku’ and Sujood and completed his Salah. After completing Salah he woke his companion up. When the infidel saw that the blessed companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was not alone, but his companions were also near him, he immediately ran away.

When the Muhajir companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw this condition of his companion, he took out the arrows quickly and asked, ‘Why didn’t you wake me when the enemy attacked you?’ The Ansari companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who was a devotee of Quran and Salah’) replied, ‘I started a Surah in Salah. I did not like to break the Salah after leaving the Surah incomplete. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not given me the responsibility of keeping watch, I must have completed the Surah even by giving my life. Since the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered me to keep a watch, it was my responsibility to carry it out in a proper way. When I found myself seriously injured, I cut my Salah short due to the same sense of responsibility and woke you up so that the enemy may not attack any more.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 33)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! May I be sacrificed for them! These blessed personalities had such a great devotion to Salah and Quran that they did not care for their lives and remained busy with Salah. On the other hand, we do not offer Salah, and if we do, we are preoccupied with our home or business so much that we offer Salah extremely quickly, as though we offer it in haste. Remember! Due to offering Salah hastily, sometimes we make such mistakes during Salah which may invalidate our Salah.

Sayyiduna Huzayfah Bin Yamaan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ saw a person who would not perform Ruku and Sujood completely during Salah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said to him: ‘If you die whilst offering Salah in the way you have just offered, you will not die in accordance with the teachings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 284, Hadees 808)

It is also narrated that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ asked: ‘How long have you been offering Salah like this?’ The person replied: ‘For forty years.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said: ‘You have not offered any Salah at all for forty years and if you die in the same state, you will not die on the religion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

(Sunan Nasa`ee, pp. 225, Hadees 1309)

اَلْاَمَان وَ الْـحَفِیْظ May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect our faith!

خدایا بُرے خاتمے سے بچا لے گنہگار ہے جاں بَلب یا الٰہی!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Teaching of offering Salah with calmness

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to the Masjid; a person came and offered Salah and then went to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and said Salam to him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied to his Salam and said: ‘Go and offer Salah because you have not offered Salah [correctly].’ The man went back and offered Salah in the same way. He then came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and said Salam to him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied to his Salam and said: ‘Go and offer Salah because you have not offered Salah.’ This happened thrice. The man humbly said: ‘By Him Who has sent you with the Truth! I know the same Salah. Please teach me.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘When you stand for Salah say Takbeer and then recite as much from the Holy Quran as much you can recite easily and then perform Ruku calmly. Then raise your head from the Ruku’ and stand up straight, then perform Sajdah calmly, then raise your head and sit calmly and then complete the whole Salah in the same way.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 152, Hadees 757)

نَمازوں میں مجھے ہرگز نہ ہو سُستی کبھی آقا

پڑھوں پانچوں نَمازیں باجماعت یا رسولَ الله

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish)

From this blessed Hadees it has been learnt that it is Wajib to repeat the Salah due to Wajib being missed. Remember, Sajdah Sahw becomes Wajib if a Wajib is missed forgetfully during the Salah, and if a Wajib is missed deliberately, then repeating the Salah becomes Wajib.

Moreover, it has also been learnt that it is Wajib to offer Salah calmly because that elderly man came after offering Salah hastily, therefore he was asked to repeat his Salah; that is, every time when he would come after offering Salah, he would say Salam and would be asked to go back.

The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not teach him the method of Salah the very first time, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم taught him the method after making him offer Salah many times so that he could remember this event and he could memorize this ruling very well because the thing we get with great labour and wait, settles in the mind.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 12)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the blessed Hadees and its commentary it has become obvious that we should offer Salah with extreme calmness without any haste. It has been stated in the blessed Hadees that: ‘Perform Ruku’ with calmness then stand up straight raising your head from Ruku’, then perform Sajdah with calmness, then sit calmly raising your head from sajdah’, this is called Ta’deel-e-Arkaan.

‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in Bahar-e-Shari’at: Maintaining Ta’deel-e-Arkaan, i.e. staying in Ruku’, Sujood, Qawmah and Jalsah [standing after Ruku’ and sitting between two Sajdahs] for the amount of time in which ‘ سُبْحٰنَ اﷲ ’ can be uttered at least once, is Wajib. Sajdah Sahw becomes Wajib if someone forgets Ta’deel-e-Arkaan. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 518, Part. 4, pp. 711)

Anyhow, one should have information about the Wajibat, Makruhaat, Mufsidaat (The acts which invalidate Salah) of Salah, and other necessary rulings along with the correct method of performing Wudu and Ghusl (the ritual bath) so that our Salahs do not become invalid because the way offering Salah is obligatory for every adult and sane Muslim, similarly, it is also obligatory to learn rulings on Salah relevant to circumstances.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 3, vol. 1, pp. 518; part 4, vol. 1, pp. 711)

Introduction of the book, ‘Laws of Salah’

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه out of his enthusiasm for serving Muslims, has compiled an extremely easy book namely, ‘ Laws of Salah ’, a 499-page book about the rulings on Salah. This book, which is certainly a great gift for Muslim Ummah, is in fact a collection of 12 booklets written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . It includes the methods of Wudu and Ghusl, method of offering Salah, its virtues, Faraaid [obligatory acts], Wajibat [Wajib acts], Sunan, Makruhaat and Mufsidaat. In addition, the method of offering Qada Salah, Azan, words used for answering the Azan and their virtues, travellers’ Salah, Eid Salah, method of funeral Salah and necessary rulings about it. Undoubtedly, this book is a need for every home. Therefore, all the Islamic brothers should study it themselves, and they should also persuade other family members to study it as well after buying it from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. For Islamic sisters, ‘Salah for Islamic Sisters’ is an excellent book authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . It is also a must read for all Islamic sisters.

Alas! At present, many efforts are made to gain knowledge of worldly arts and sciences and for this purpose great sacrifice of wealth and time is made. On the other hand, no one makes any effort to learn the rulings on Salah which is a pillar of Deen [Islam]. It is quite possible that our Salahs may become invalid due to a lack of Islamic knowledge and haste and we are unaware of it. Our pious predecessors and saints of Islam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی had a deep attachment to Salah. Taking care of all the manners of Salah these personalities not only would offer all obligatory Salahs, but they would also

offer Nafl Salah with extreme calmness. Let’s listen to three parables of pious saints of Islam about it for persuasion.

Salah of A’la Hadrat

Maulana Muhammad Husayn Chishti Nizami Fakhri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who wrote Fatawa for A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for few years, has said: A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه certainly offered Salah throughout his life with Jama’at; no matter how hot [temperature] it was he would always offer Salah wearing ‘Imamah and Angharkhay [a garment that is worn over Kurta] (i.e. he would make special arrangement even in clothing for Salah]. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never offered especially obligatory Salah wearing only Topi and a normal Kurta. Maulana Muhammad Husayn Chishti Nizami Fakhri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: The amount of care A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would take while offering Salah is not seen these days. I always offer two Rak’at in the amount of time in which A’la Hadrat would offer one Rak’at. Other people would offer at least 6 Rak’at or rather 8 Rak’at in the amount of time in which I offer 4 Rak’at. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 153)

ہو جائیں مولا مسجدیں آباد سب کی سب

سب کو نَمازی دے بنا یا ربِّ مصطَفٰے

Where is that wood?

Sayyiduna Abul Ahwas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that a lady neighbour of Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin Mu’tamir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked her father: ‘O dear father! There was a piece of wood on the roof of [the house of] Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin Mu’tamir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, where is it?’ He replied: ‘O daughter! It was [not a piece of wood, but rather] Sayyiduna Mansoor رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who used to offer Salah in the night. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, pp. 46, Raqm 6269)

Sayyiduna ‘Ala Bin Saalim ‘Abadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated about him that Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin Mu’tamir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah on his [house’s] roof. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away, a boy asked his mother: Dear mother! There was a date trunk on the roof of so-and-so; where is it

now? The mother replied: O son! It was not a trunk, but rather Sayyiduna Mansoor رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who [would worship, and now] has passed away.

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, pp. 46, Raqm 6260)

میں پانچوں نَمازیں پڑھوں باجماعت ہو توفیق ایسی عطا یا الٰہی

Salah of Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه once went to meet Sayyiduna ‘Aasim Bin Yusuf Muhaddis رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna ‘Aasim Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him: ‘O Haatim! Do you offer Salah properly?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied in the affirmative, then Sayyiduna ‘Aasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: Tell me. How do you offer Salah? Sayyiduna Haatim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: When the time for Salah comes near, I perform my Wudu completely in an extremely proper manner.

When the time of Salah comes I step on the prayer mat and stand in such a manner that each joint of my body properly adjusts to its place, I then imagine that the Holy Ka’bah is between both of my eyebrows and Maqaam-e- Ibraheem is in front of my chest. Then having this belief in my heart that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is aware of my apparent condition and all hidden thoughts of my heart; I stand in a way as if my feet are on Siraat Bridge and Paradise to my right, and Hell to my left, and Malak-ul-Maut [the angel of death] behind me, and I feel as if this Salah is the last Salah of my life. After this I recite Takbeer-e- Tahrimah with extreme sincerity, and then recite Holy Quran with extreme concentration and contemplation. I then perform Ruku’ and Sujood with utmost humbleness and in a beseeching manner and in the same way I offer the entire Salah with extreme humility and the presence of the heart.

Having heard this Sayyiduna ‘Aasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked surprisingly: ‘O Haatim! Do you really offer Salah always and every time in the same manner?’ Sayyiduna Haatim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Yes! I have been offering every Salah of mine always and every time in the same manner for thirty years’. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 1, pp. 33)

اَوقات کے اندر ہی پڑھوں ساری نَمازیں

الله! عبادت میں مِرے دل کو لگا دے

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to offer long Salahs with extreme humility and the presence of the heart and mind, great yearning and concentration! On the other hand, if we are privileged to offer Salah, we offer it with extreme laziness and carelessness by looking here and there due to which we do not attain extreme humility and presence of the heart from the beginning.

Where should our sight be during Salah?

A’la Hadrat’s caliph Sayyid Ayyub ‘Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: (One day), after Zuhr Salah, A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmed Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was reciting Wazifah in the Masjid, a stranger came in front of him and started offering Salah. While performing Ruku’, raising his neck, he kept looking at the place of Sajdah. After he had completed his Salah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called him and asked: Why did you raise your neck so much in Ruku’? He replied that he had been looking at the place of Sajdah. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The sight should not be focused at the place of Sajdah in every state. He then said: In the state of Qiyam, the sight should be at the place of Sajdah; in the state of Ruku’, it should be at the toes; in the state of Tasmee’ (standing after Ruku’), it should be on the chest; in the state of Sajdah it should be on nose and in the state of Qu’ood (when reciting Attahiyyat etc.) it should be on the lap. Moreover, while performing Salam, the sight should be at the shoulders keeping in mind Katibeen (angels who record our deeds).

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 303)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that we should avoid looking here and there during Salah. Remember! Looking here and there during Salah distracts our attention and our hearts become occupied with other things rather than Salah. Perhaps this is the reason that despite offering Salah we do not attain its pleasure, nor do we develop its real yearning in the heart. As a result, we frequently miss Salahs due to a slight headache or mild illness or only due to our laziness and idleness. There are even some people who if

miss one or few Salahs, they miss Salah deliberately for weeks and for months. Making an individual effort if an Islamic brother persuades them to offer Salah, they respond: Now اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I will start offering Salah from the next Friday or I will start offering Salah regularly from the month of Ramadan.’

Thus they acknowledge this thing openly without any shame or hesitation مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ that they will continue to commit the grave sin of missing Salahs until Friday or the month of Ramadan. Undoubtedly, all these things are the curse of having no fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and no enthusiasm for worship; otherwise one who is overpowered by the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and has strong desire for worship, offers Salah regularly at all costs and refrains from the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Despite being severely ill, elderly and very weak physically, our pious predecessors and blessed saints of Islam would not be heedless of Salah, but rather they would offer Salah regularly with Jama’at unless they had any Shar’i compulsion.

Offered Salah despite being ill

Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The neighbour of Sayyiduna Talhah Bin Masraf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه told us about him that he was ill. We went to inquire after his health so Sayyiduna Zubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him: ‘Please get up! Offer Salah; I know that you love Salah.’ Listening to this, he stood up for Salah. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 21, Raqm. 6171)

Unique regularity of Salah with Jama’at

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin ‘Ar’arah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Qattaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه talked about Sayyiduna Imam A’mash رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he would say: He was a great worshipper and would offer Salah with Jama’at in the first row regularly. He also added: Sayyiduna Imam A’mash رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the sign of Islam (i.e. extremely elderly). He would reach the first row by supporting himself against the wall. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 58, Raqm 6310)

میں ساتھ جماعت کے پڑھوں ساری نَمازیں

الله! عبادت میں مِرے دل کو لگا دے

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Hadrat ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه once fell seriously ill; finally an operation was decided. He was admitted to Rajputana Hospital (Hyderabad, Pakistan) on 21 st December, 2002. The doctor wanted to carry out the operation either at noon or evening, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat said: I do not want to miss any of my Salah in the state of being unconscious. Therefore, it was decided that the operation would be carried out after ‘Isha Salah. Before the operation both of his hands were tied around the table and later on as the hands were untied, he instantly folded them like the Qiyam in Salah. He was still half unconscious; instead of groaning and screaming with pain he was doing Zikr, reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and doing Munajat. Suddenly he asked: Has the time of Fajr Salah started? If it is the time of Fajr Salah, I should be purified, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will offer Fajr Salah. He was informed that there was still plenty of time left for Fajr. [1]

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Holy Quran, not only the commandment of Salah has been given at many places, but by mentioning its reward, we have also been persuaded to offer it. In this regard, let’s listen to four blessed sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Four blessed sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about Salah

وَ الْمُقِیْمِیْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ سَنُؤْتِیْهِمْ اَجْرًا عَظِیْمًا۠(۱۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who keep the prayer established and those who pay the charity, and those who believe in Allah and the Last Day; to such, We shall soon bestow a great reward.

(Part 6, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 162)

وَ اَنْ اَقِیْمُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّقُوْهُؕ-وَ هُوَ الَّذِیْۤ اِلَیْهِ تُحْشَرُوْنَ(۷۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And to keep the (obligatory) prayer established and to fear Him; and it is to Him that you are to be raised.

(Part 7, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 72)

حٰفِظُوْا عَلَى الصَّلَوٰتِ وَ الصَّلٰوةِ الْوُسْطٰىۗ-وَ قُوْمُوْا لِلّٰهِ قٰنِتِیْنَ(۲۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Guard all your prayers, and the middle prayer; and stand with reverence before Allah.

(Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 238)

وَ اَقِیْمُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتُوا الزَّكٰوةَ وَ ارْكَعُوْا مَعَ الرّٰكِعِیْنَ(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And keep the (obligatory) prayer established, and pay the charity, and bow your heads with those who bow (in prayer).

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 43)

Regarding the last blessed Ayah ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This blessed Ayah contains the information about Salah and Zakah being obligatory and it also suggests that Salahs should be offered with their proper rights and carefully fulfilling all of its [Arkaan] essentials.

Ruling:

(In the same blessed Ayah), persuasion of Salah with Jama’at also exists.

Punishment for missing Jama’at

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas and Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have narrated that they heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying this on the pulpit:

لَيَنۡتَهِيَنَّ اَقۡوَامٌ عَنۡ وَدۡعِهِمُ الۡجَمَاعَاتِ اَوۡ لَيَخۡتِمَنَّ اللّٰهُ عَلٰي قُلُوبِهِمۡ ثُمَّ لَيَكُونُنَّ مِنۡ الۡغَافِلِينَ

‘People should abstain from missing Jama’at, otherwise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will seal their hearts, and then they will be amongst heedless people.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 436, Hadees 794)

In another blessed Hadees, the same warning has been given for missing Friday Salah: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: People should abstain from missing Friday Salah, otherwise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will seal their hearts [and] then they will be amongst heedless people. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 430, Hadees 865)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Keep in mind that here either the conversation is about the hypocrites who did not use to come for Friday Salah (or daily Salahs) or it is about the [people who will come in] future, otherwise no companion had ever missed a Friday Salah (or missed a daily Salah or missed a Jama’at). (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 330)

میں پانچوں نَمازیں پڑھوں باجماعت

ہو توفیق ایسی عطا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults’, one of the 12 Madani ctivities

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want to make up our mind to offer Salah regularly and want steadfastness in it, we should associate ourselves with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and give some

time out of our busy schedule to the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of taking part in these Madani activities we will get used to performing obligatory acts of worship along with Nafl acts of worship; we will attain the passion for acting upon Faraaid and Wajibat, Sunan and Mustahabbat; we will get the opportunity to act upon the Sunnah of presenting call towards righteousness, we will get the company of devotees of Rasool and will also attain steadfastness in virtuous deeds.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭, one of the 12 Madani activities is to study or teach at ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult Islamic brothers’.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) one is privileged to recite the Holy Quran correctly.

٭ ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) is a best source of learning essential rulings on Salah, Wudu and Ghusl, etc.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) one is blessed with good company.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) one is privileged to recite or teach the Holy Quran.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) one is blessed with Islamic knowledge.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) one attains the reward for sitting in the Masjid.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable about the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (Islamic brothers) and rejoice:

Madani parable

Here is a summary of an Islamic brother’s statement: I would commit many sins, including fitting VCR cables to people’s homes, roaming around with immoral friends, watching two or three movies in a day, wasting my nights in attending concerts and live stage shows etc.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the frequent individual efforts of an Islamic brother, who was from Nayabad of Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, I enrolled in a local Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults). Accordingly, I gained the company of the devotees of the Rasool and having affiliated myself with the global non-political movement of propagating Quran and Sunnah, I became busy in Madani activities.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Holy Quran and Hadees, where so many virtues and blessings of offering Salah have been mentioned, severe punishments have also been mentioned for not offering the Salah (within the time-frame) or for missing Salah. In Ayah 59 of Surah Maryam, part 16 it is stated:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And after them came the unworthy successors who squandered prayer and pursued their own desires, so they will soon encounter the forest of Ghayy in Hell. (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 59)

Horrible well of terrifying valley

In the above-mentioned blessed Ayah ‘Ghayy’ [ غَیّ ] has been mentioned that means ‘a valley of Hell’. Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘Ghayy’ is a valley in Hell which is the hottest and deepest of all; it has a well named ‘Hab Hab’ [ ہَبْ ہَبْ ]. When the fire of Hell is about to extinguish, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens this well due to which it [i.e. the fire of Hell] blazes as usual. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

كُلَّمَا خَبَتْ زِدْنٰهُمْ سَعِیْرًا(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whenever it is about to extinguish, We will inflame it more for them. (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 97)

(He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said): ‘This ‘well’ is for those who do not offer Salah, for fornicators, drunkards, usurers and for those who hurt their parents.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 434)

Remember! Missing even one Salah deliberately is a major sin. On page 158 of Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, volume 9 it is stated: The one who deliberately misses Salah of even one time, deserves to be in Hell for thousands of years until he repents and offers its Qada.

Dear Islamic brothers! Imagine! When a person will have to be in Hell for thousands of years only for missing one Salah deliberately, so how severe torment the one [who deliberately misses all his Salahs during the whole day or rather has the evil habit of offering no Salah at all] will suffer!

Therefore, as soon as possible, or rather today, repent truly of the grave sin of missing Salah. Moreover, make intention to offer Qada Salah along with offering Salah regularly, otherwise, remember no one can endure the torment of Hell at all. It has been narrated that the person, on whom the lightest torment of Hell will be inflicted, will feel the pain of this torment so much that he will think that the most painful torment is being inflicted on him alone, though it will be contrary to the fact. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abb a s رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The one amongst the dwellers of Hell on whom the slightest torment will be inflicted; he will be made to wear the shoes of fire due to which his brain will begin to boil.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 262, Hadees 6561)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Faizan-e-Namaz Course

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also offer Salah regularly in order to protect ourselves from the torment of Hell. Moreover, we should offer the Salahs we have missed immediately; otherwise we will not be able to bear the painful torment of Hell at all. Repent of the sin of missing Salah as soon as possible. And start offering Salah keeping in mind all the apparent and spiritual Sunnahs and manners of Salah. There are a number of people who do not

know even the essential rulings on Salah due to which their Salahs become invalid. Get yourself enrolled in ‘ Faizan-e-Namaz Course ’, to protect your Salahs from mistakes, to learn the correct method of offering them and to know the essential rulings on Salah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, this 7-day course with lodging is offered in order to save people’s Salah from becoming invalid. In this course, Islamic brothers are taught the essential rulings on Wudu and Ghusl; conditions and Faraaid of Salah, Wajibat and Mustahabbat, Makruhaat and those things are also taught due to which Salah becomes invalid. In addition, the recitation of the Holy Quran is also taught with correct pronunciation through Madani Qaida and Du’as, which are recited daily, are also made to memorize. You must also get yourself enrolled in Faizan-e-Namaz Course in order to offer your Salah correctly and attain its abundant blessings.

Persuasion of Madani donations

Dear Islamic brothers! Dawat-e-Islami has done us a great favour. We did not know how to offer Salah or rather we did not know about many other things, but Dawat-e-Islami has taught and made us understand many things. We have lots of favour of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami has given us the Madani mind-set of growing beard, wearing blessed Imamah and protecting faith. Now the same Dawat-e-Islami is demanding that it should be progressed further and for further development, billions of rupees are required. Millions of rupees are spent on Jami’a-tul-Madinah every month; hundreds of Masajid have yet to be built. Every admirer of Dawat-e-Islami should become active and start making great efforts to collect lots of Madani donations from their family members, friends and relatives, neighbours and shopkeepers. Many people pay Zakah only in the month of Ramadan. Try to collect Fitrah along with Zakah. Expenses are increasing every year. We have to keep our Dawat-e-Islami alive; we have to run it or rather make it strong so that it serves abundantly the religion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The stalls for collecting Fitrah be increased; there are a number of people who give Fitrah by seeing tables, chairs, banners, etc. Put up stalls for collecting Fitrah in markets and Masajid. The more stalls for collecting Madani donations are put up, the more Fitrah will be collected.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult Islamic brothers

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s critical age, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a very great blessing. You also stay associated with this Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will get abundant goodness of the world and the Hereafter. Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult Islamic brothers in which Islamic brothers [are being provided with the education of Naazirah Ta’leem-e-Quran as well as they are also taught the essential rulings on Salah, at different places (such as Masajid, offices, markets, shops, etc.) at different timings and that too free of charge; they are also taught Sunan and manners.

The number of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults in Pakistan and abroad is approximately 13,853 (thirteen thousand eight hundred and fifty-three) and the number of the Islamic brothers who study in them are approximately 89,043 (eighty-nine thousand forty-three). Similarly, efforts are also being made to propagate the education of Holy Quran among elder Islamic sisters. The number of the Islamic sisters studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) is approximately more than 63,000 [sixty-three thousand].

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said,

‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners about Janazah [funeral]

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about Janazah [funeral]. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When a Heavenly person passes away, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ feels shy (befitting His status) in punishing those who carried the bier of that person and those who followed the funeral procession and those who offered his funeral Salah. (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khattab, vol. 1, pp. 282)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The very first reward given to the true believer on his death is that all the participants of his funeral Salah are forgiven. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 178, Hadees 13)

٭ One should attend the Janazah with good intentions like seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, fulfilling the obligation, expressing condolences to the deceased and his family etc.

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ Janazah [funeral] ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

٭ While going with the Janazah, keep thinking about your own fate that you will also be taken one day in the same way as this person is being taken today; you will also be buried in the same way as this person is going to be buried beneath tons of soil. It is ‘Ibadat [worship] and a source of earning Sawab to contemplate in this manner.

٭ It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Whoever carries the bier on shoulder and walks 40 steps, 40 of his major sins will be forgiven.

٭ It is also mentioned in a blessed Hadees that the one who carries the bier on his shoulder from all four posts (of the funeral bier) will be granted ultimate forgiveness by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 139; Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 158, 159; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 823)

٭ It is an act of worship to carry the bier on the shoulder. It is a Sunnah to carry the bier on the shoulder from all four corners one after the other and to walk 10 steps at each side. The complete Sunnah is to first carry the bier on the shoulder from the right head side of the bier, then the right foot side, then the left head side and then the left foot side and to walk 10 steps each time thus making a total of 40 steps. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 162; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 822)

٭ While shouldering the Janazah, it is impermissible, Haraam and an act leading towards the Hell to push people deliberately in a way that hurts them, like some people do in the Janazah of an influential personality.

٭ The husband is allowed to carry his wife’s bier on his shoulder, lower her in the grave for the burial and see her face. He is prohibited only from bathing his wife and directly touching her body (without cloth, etc., in between). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 812, 813)

٭ It is permissible to recite Kalimah Tayyibah or Kalimah Shahadah or Hamd-o-Na’at, etc. with the Janazah in a loud voice. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 139-158)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

