اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Journey of Mi’raaj of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Radd-ul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰى عَلَيَّ حِينَ يُصْبِحُ عَشْرًا وَحِينَ يُمْسِي عَشْرًا اَدْرَكَتْهُ شَفَاعَتِي يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ

The one who recited Salat upon me ten times in the morning and ten times in the evening will attain my intercession on the Day of Judgement.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 163, Hadees 17022)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s make good intentions for attaining the pleasure of Allah Almighty and rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall, etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Great and sacred night

O devotees of Rasool! Tonight is the 27 th night of Rajab-ul-Murajjab 1440 Hijri, i.e. Shab-e-Mi’raaj. Countless thanks to Allah Almighty that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed us once again with this great and sacred night that is filled with virtues and blessings.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Tonight is that great and enlightened night (of Mi’raaj) in which the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with a great miracle. On this night, leader of all the angels, Sayyiduna Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with an extremely fast riding “Burraaq”. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was adorned (like a groom). Very carefully, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made to ride upon the Buraaq. In the same night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Bayt-ul-Muqaddas from Makkah-tul-Mukarramah. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was welcomed. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام in Salah.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visited all the skies and witnessed their wonders.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met blessed Ambiya on every sky.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also went to Sidra-tul-Muntaha. Over there, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم apologised from going any further.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also reached such place which is even beyond the comprehension of one’s intellect.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with special gifts.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was initially blessed with a gift of 50 Salahs from the court of Allah Almighty which was brought down and made Fard upon us in the form of 5 Salahs.

On this night, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed Heaven and Hell.

On this night, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with the special closeness to Allah Almighty.

On this night, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم beheld Allah Almighty with his physical eyes.

Let us listen about the faith refreshing and interesting aspects of the journey of Mi’raaj.

Summary of the journey of Mi’raaj

It is mentioned in “Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan”, vol. 5, pp. 414 and 415: On the night of Mi’raaj, (Sayyiduna) Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He relayed the glad tidings of Mi’raaj to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Then, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم opened the blessed chest of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and washed it with the water of Zam Zam. Then, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم filled it with wisdom and Iman [faith].

Thereafter, (a ride called) Buraaq was presented to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . With great dignity and reverence, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made to ride upon it and taken towards Masjid e Aqsa. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led all the Ambiya and Mursaleen عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام in Salah there. Then from there, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم looked forward to the journey of the heavens. Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم got doors of all the heavens opened turn by turn.

On the first sky, Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ; on the second sky, Sayyiduna Yahya and ‘Eisa عَـلَيْـهِمَا الصَّلٰو ۃُ وَ الـسَّـلاَم ; on the third sky, Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم, on the fourth sky, Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ; on the fifth sky, Sayyiduna Haroon عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ; on the sixth sky, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and on the seventh sky, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم were privileged to behold and meet the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They respected and honoured the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and congratulated him upon his arrival.

To the extent that he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم kept visiting one sky after the other and observed their wonders. Then, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached the last stage of all Muqarrabeen [special chosen] angels, Sidra-tul-Muntaha. The reason because not even any Muqarrab angel can proceed any further from Sidra-tul-Muntaha, hence, Sayyiduna Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم apologised and stayed there. Then, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم progressed in attaining

special blessings and reached such elevated and sacred status which is even beyond the comprehension of our intellect.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم received special mercies and blessings there, and he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with favours from Allah Almighty and specific bounties. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم attained the kingship of the earth and skies, and was given higher and superior knowledge. Salahs for the Ummah became Fard. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم interceded for some sinners. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visited Paradise and Hell, and then came back to the world at his place. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 5, pp. 414-415)

Allah ki ‘inayat Marhaba

Buraaq ki qismat Marhaba

‘Aqa ki rif’at Marhaba

Mi’raaj ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

Buraaq ki Sur’at Marhaba

Aasman ki siyahat Marhaba

Aqsa ki shaukat Marhaba

Nabiyaun ki Imamat Marhaba

Makeen-e-La Makaan ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that how dignified and bestowed was the journey of Mi’raaj of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in which he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم witnessed various great signs of Allah Almighty. We also came to know that the blessed chest of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given ghusl with the sacred water, i.e. the blessed Zam Zam, and it was filled with wisdom. It is possible that somebody may think that why only the water of Zam Zam was chosen to give ghusl to the sacred body of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم instead of other waters?

While mentioning the wisdom behind it, Hakeem-ul-Ummah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sleeping at the house of Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Haani Bint-e-Abi Taalib رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Angels woke him up and brought him to ‘Hateem-e-Ka’bah. Until now, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was still drowsy. Then, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given ghusl there. Ghusl is given to the body of the worldly groom. But Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such unique groom that his blessed heart was also given a ghusl. The water of Zam Zam is superior to all other waters as it started flowing from the blessed foot of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم . That’s why, this water was chosen for the ghusl. The blessed chest was filled with Iman [faith] and wisdom. Then, it was sewed back. Iman and wisdom already existed in the blessed heart of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from beforehand. This event took place to increase the extent of Iman and wisdom.’

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 152)

‘The blessed heart of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was already enlightened, but now it became نُوْرٌ عَلٰی نُوْر (more refulgent). The gold was from the Paradise. The water was of Zam Zam. Water of ‘Haram in the utensil made of gold from Paradise, سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ it was icing on the cake.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 136)

Wisdoms behind the splitting of the blessed chest

It is stated on page no. 79 and 80 of the book, “Seerat-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ”, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: The blessed chest of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was split four times.

٭ First time, it took place when he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was staying at the house of Sayyidatuna Haleemah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . The wisdom behind this was so that he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remains safe from those whispers and thoughts that children normally fall prey to and fall into playing and being naughty.

٭ Second time, it took place when he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was ten years old so that he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remains safe from the dangers of the desires of adulthood.

٭ Third time, the blessed chest was opened up in the cave of Hira, and the blessed heart of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was filled up with Noor, peace and satisfaction so that he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could bear the great responsibility of the revelations from Allah Almighty.

٭ Fourth time, the blessed chest of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was opened up on the night of Mi’raaj and it was filled with the treasure of Noor and wisdom so that his heart becomes vast and capable enough to bear the majesty of the splendours of the radiance of beholding Allah Almighty and conversing with Him. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 79-80)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Grandeur and glory of Buraaq

O devotees of Rasool! On the night of Mi’raaj, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم travelled upon different rides and reached La Makaan (No-place). As Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم states himself: ‘(On the night of Mi’raaj), a white coloured animal was brought to me that was smaller than a mule and bigger than a donkey. It is called Buraaq . It would place its one step where the limit of its sight would be. I was made to ride upon it.’

(Muslim Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 87, Hadees 411)

Under this blessed Hadees, Had Hakeem ul Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Because it is as fast as lightning and is shining white, hence, it is called Buraaq . Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم rode upon it on Mi’raaj and will also ride upon it on the Day of Judgement. Be mindful that every Nabi will have a Buraaq in Paradise to ride upon, but the Buraaq of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be the most superior. It is the same very Buraaq.’

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further states: (Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated): I did not ride upon it myself, but I was made to ride upon it. Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم made the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to ride upon it. The stirrup was held by Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and Sayyiduna Mikael عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم held the rein. With such majesty, the

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was escorted. Be mindful that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم riding upon the Buraaq was to express his grandeur. Like the groom rides upon a horse and people attending the wedding walk along and the horse walks slowly. So even this pace of Buraaq was slow. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 137)

The blessed rides of the journey of Mi’raaj

Imam ‘Ala`ee رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: There were five types of rides of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the night of Mi’raaj.

1. Buraaq, (from Makkah) to Bayt-ul-Maqdis,

2. Stairs of Noor, from Bayt-ul-Maqdis to the sky of the world,

3. Arms of angels, from first sky to the seventh sky,

4. Arm of Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم, from the seventh sky to Sidra-tul-Muntaha,

5. رَفْرَف, from Sidra-tul-Muntaha to قَابَ قَوْسَین .

(Ruh-ul-Ma’ani, part 15, Surah Asra Taht-al-Ayah 1, pp. 14,15)

Stages of the journey of Mi’raaj

‘Allamah Shahab-ud-Deen Mahmood Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم traversed through ten stages to reach قَابَ قَوْسَین from Bayt-ul-Maqdis.

1. First sky

2. Second sky

3. Third sky

4. Fourth sky

5. Fifth sky

6. Sixth sky

7. Seventh sky

8. Sidra-tul-Muntaha

9. Maqaam-e-Mustawa, where Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sounds of the writing of the Divine Pen.

10. ‘Arsh-e-A’zam (Ruh-ul-Ma’ani, part. 15, Surah Asra, Taht-ul-Ayah 1, pp. 15, Summarised)

Observation of Paradise

Dear Islamic brothers! As the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم witnessed various other major signs of Allah Almighty, at the same time, one special fact of this sacred journey was also that he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم witnessed a great sign of Allah Almighty, i.e. Paradise, and its bounties with his own blessed eyes. Let’s listen to what Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم witnessed there.

Splendid Heavenly palace

Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates: ‘Once, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq e A’zam رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Tell me as well what you saw in Paradise on the night of Mi’raaj?’

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘O son of Khattab! If I stay among you for the duration of time that Sayyiduna Nooh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم stayed among his nation for, and then I tell you about the events of Paradise and the things I saw there, still they will not end [i.e. they will still not be completely mentioned]. But O Umar! Now that you have asked me to tell you about Paradise, then let me tell you something that I haven’t told anyone except you. (Listen)! I saw such a splendid palace in Paradise whose doorstep was beneath the Heavenly ground and its upper part was between the ‘Arsh. I asked Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: O Jibraeel! Do you know about this splendid palace whose doorstep is beneath the Heavenly ground and its upper part is between the ‘Arsh?

Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly replied: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I do not know.’

I asked again: ‘O Jibraeel! Light of this palace is like the light of sun in the world. OK, at least tell me that who will reach this palace and who will reside in it?’

Upon this, Sayyiduna Jibraeel humbly replied: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Only he will reside in this palace who speaks the truth, instructs the truth, he does not become furious if somebody speaks the truth to him, and the one who will also pass away on truth.’

I asked: ‘O Jibraeel! Do you know his name?’

He humbly replied: ‘Yes, Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! That is only one person.’

I asked: ‘O Jibraeel! Who is that person?’

He humbly replied: ‘Sayyiduna Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .’

Listening to it, the leader of the Believers, Sayyiduna Umar Farooq e A’zam رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was overtaken by an emotional state. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Hassan رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: ‘After this event, we never saw a smile on the face of Sayyiduna Umar Farooq e A’zam رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, to the extent that he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ departed from this world.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Fazaail, part. 12, pp. 6, 264, Hadees 35833)

Golden palace

Sayyiduna Abu Buraydah رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: (On the night of Mi’raaj), when I entered Paradise, I passed by a palace that was adorned with gold.

I asked: ‘ لِمَنْ هٰذَا الْقَصْرُ whose palace is this?’

The angels humbly replied: ‘ لِرَجُلٍ مِّنَ الْعَرَبِ It is of an ‘Arab young man.’

I said: ‘ اَنَا عَرَ بِیٌّ I am an ‘Arab.’

The angels humbly said: ‘ لِرَجُلٍ مِنْ قُرَ يْش It is of a Qarashi young man.’

I said: ‘ اَنَا قُرَشِيٌّ I am Qarashi.’

The angels humbly said: ‘ لِرَجُلٍ مِّنْ اُمَّۃِ مُحَمَّدٍ It is of a person from the Ummah of Sayyiduna Muhammad صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

I said: ‘ اَنَا مُحَمَّدٌ I am Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

The angels humbly said: ‘ لِعُمَرَ بْنِ الْخَطَّابِ This palace belongs to Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .’

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ فَاَرَدْتُ اَنْ اَدْخُلَهُ فَاَنْظُرَ اِلَيْهِ،فَذَكَرْتُ غَيْرَتَكَ I wished to enter it to have a view of it but [O ‘Umar] I thought of your self-respect [and gave up the attempt].’

Listening to this, Sayyiduna Umar Farooq e A’zam رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said: ‘ بِاَبِیْ وَاُمِّیْ يَا رَسُولَ اللّٰہ،اَعَلَیْکَ اَغَارُ Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed upon you. How can I think of my self-respect being offended by you?’ (Bukhari, Kitab Fazaail-e-Ashab-un-Nabi, vol. 5, pp. 385, Hadees 3709)

Salaam of Hoors (Heavenly maidens)

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘During the journey of Mi’raaj, I entered a place called ‘ بَیْدَخ ’ in Paradise, which had tents of pearls, green emeralds and red rubies.

The Hoors said: اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیۡکَ یَارَسُوۡلَ الله i.e. O Rasool of Allah Almighty! May peace be upon you.

I asked: O Jibraeel! What kind of voice is this?

He humbly replied: These are the veiled Hoors in the tents. They sought permission from Allah Almighty to present Salaam upon you. Allah Almighty gave them the permission. Upon this, they said: We are those who will remain pleased. We will never get angry. We are everlasting. We will never go away.

Upon this, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited Ayah no. 72 of Surah Rahman, Part 27:

حُوْرٌ مَّقْصُوْرٰتٌ فِی الْخِیَامِۚ(۷۲)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: There are Houries (maidens of Paradise), hidden from view, in tents. (Al-Ba’s-wan-Nushur lil Bayhaqi, pp. 215, Hadees 340)

Heavenly streams and birds

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم states: I entered Paradise (on the night of Mi’raaj). I saw that its pebbles were of pearls and its soil was of musk. (Bukhari, Kitab Ahadees-ul-Ambiya, vol. 2, pp. 417, Hadees 3342) Then, I saw four streams.

One was of water that does not change. The second one was of milk whose taste does not change. The third one was of wine that only relishes those who drink it (it does not intoxicate at all). The fourth stream is of pure and clean honey. The birds of Paradise were like camels. Allah Almighty has kept such rewards for His righteous bondmen in it which neither any eye has seen, nor any ear has heard of and nor has anyone ever thought of.

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah-Lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 2, pp. 394)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

You are Imam of Ambiya

O devotees of Awliya! One aspect of the journey of Mi’raaj is also that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام in Salah on this night. As it is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘I rode upon it (Buraaq) and reached Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and tied it at the place where all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام would tie their rides. Then I entered Masjid-e-(Aqsa) and offered two Rak’at Salah.’ (Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 87, Hadees 411)

The renowned accomplished saint, ‘Allamah Maulana Makhdoom Muhammad Haashim Tahtaawi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘In this Salah, Holy Rasool

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the Imam of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . (Seerat-e-Sayyid-ul-Ambiya, pp. 128; summarised) Because all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام were gathered in Beit-ul-Muqaddas in order to show the supreme status of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Nasa`ee, Kitab-us-Salat, pp. 81, Hadees 448; summarised)

When he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached there, then all of them said welcome to him. At the time of Salah, everyone requested him for Imamat and he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام in Salah. (Mu’jam-e-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 65, Hadees 3879; summarised)

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! What a beautiful Salah it was that all the Ambiya and Rusul offered Salah led by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the Imam and the first Qiblah was the place where this Salah was offered. Undoubtedly, such Salah had never been offered before in the universe. The sky had never witnessed such a sight before.

Anyhow, the secret of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم being the first and last was revealed today. Not only was this secret revealed but its meanings also became obvious, because Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who is the last Rasool, is leading the Ambiya and Rusuls of the past in Salah today.

Allah ki ‘inayat Marhaba

Buraaq ki qismat Marhaba

Aqa ki rif’at Marhaba

Mi’raaj ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

Buraaq ki Sur’at Marhaba

Aasman ki siyahat Marhaba

Aqsa ki shaukat Marhaba

Nabiyaun ki Imamat Marhaba

Makeen-e-La Makaan ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Introduction of the book, “Faizan-e-Mi’raaj”

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to gain further information regarding the journey of Mi’raaj of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, reading the book “Faizan-e-Mi’raaj”, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, will be extremely beneficial. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this book, following matter has been mentioned in an excellent and extremely easy manner:

٭ Details of step-by-step stages of Mi’raaj

٭ Observations made during the journey from Masjid-e-Haraam to Masjid-e-Aqsa

٭ Journey of the heavens and observations of Paradise and Hell

٭ Details of meeting the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام

٭ Numerous Madani pearls and

٭ Few Na’ats in relation to the blessed Mi’raaj

٭ Etc. etc.

Therefore, purchase this book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah today and read it yourself as well as persuade other Islamic brothers to do so too. This book can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came back to this world from the journey of the heavens and witnessing the signs of Allah Almighty, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered Beit-ul-Muqaddas, rode upon Buraaq and left for Makkah-e-Mukarramah. On the way, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the caravans of Quraysh and everything from Beit-ul-Muqaddas to Makkah. After passing through all these stages, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Masjid-e-Haraam and lay down to rest because a large part of the night was still yet to pass.

When he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم woke up in the morning and started mentioning the events of the night to Quraysh, then the chiefs of Quraysh were severely astonished. To the extent that some unfortunate people مَعَاذَاللہ called the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be a liar. Some asked different questions to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Because majority of the chiefs of Quraysh had seen Beit-ul-Muqaddas various times and they knew that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has never been to Beit-ul-Muqaddas, hence as a test, they started asking Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم questions regarding the walls, arches, etc., of Beit-ul-Muqaddas. At that time, Allah Almighty instantly brought up the map of the entire building of Beit-ul-Muqaddas in front of the prophetic eye of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, those disbelievers would keep asking him questions and he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look at the building and give correct answers to their questions. (Seerat-e- Mustafa, pp. 735)

Allah ki ‘inayat Marhaba

Buraaq ki qismat Marhaba

Aaqa ki rif’at Marhaba

Mi’raaj ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

Buraaq ki Sur’at Marhaba

Aasmaan ki siyahat Marhaba

Aqsa ki shaukat Marhaba

Nabiyon ki imamat Marhaba

Makeen-e-La Makaan ki ‘Azamat Marhaba

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Testifying the journey of Mi’raaj contains test of one’s Iman. As, going physically to the heavens, ‘Arsh-e-A’zam, in fact even beyond ‘Arsh-e-A’zam to La Makaan while being awake in very short span of time is beyond the intellect. That is the reason why those whose hearts were void of

the Noor of Iman not only denied this great event but also made fun of it in different ways. But those whose hearts were thriving with the Noor of faith and trust, they did not fall prey to any worry or doubt and believed in this Prophetic miracle without any proof. As it is stated regarding Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

The companion testifying the journey of Mi’raaj

Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: ‘When Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was taken from Masjid-e-Haraam to Masjid-e-Aqsa, then he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned this whole event to people the next morning. Some non-Muslims ran to Sayyiduna Abu Bakar Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said: ‘Do you testify what your friend has said that he went from Masjid-e-Haraam to Masjid-e-Aqsa in the same night?’

He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked: ‘Did Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم actually say this?’

They replied: ‘Yes.’

Upon this, he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ لَئِنْ کَانَ قَالَ ذٰلِکَ لَقَدْ صَدَقَ i.e. If he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said this, then undoubtedly he has said the truth and I testify this saying of his without any hesitation.’

They said: ‘Do you also testify the astonishing fact that he went to Beit-ul-Muqaddas in the night and came back before the dawn?’

He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Yes! I also testify the news of the heavens given by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم day and night which are undoubtedly more surprising and astonishing than even this matter.’

Thus, after this event, he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became famous as ‘Siddeeq’ .

(Mustadrak, Kitab Ma’rifah-tus-Sahabah, vol. 4, pp. 25, Hadees 4515)

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! You have heard that the first companion to testify the journey of Mi’raaj was the unparalleled devotee, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Remember that after Ambiya and Rusul, he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the most superior among the entire mankind. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possesses numerous virtues. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the first

among men to embrace faith upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stayed with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم during his travel and stay. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was privileged to migrate with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and attained such rank where he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sacrificed his wealth, life, children, homeland, in short everything, upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This is the reason why he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ attained an extremely elevated rank in the court of Allah Almighty and also became deserving of abundant of rewards from Allah Almighty.

Eminence of Siddeeq-e-Akbar

On the sacred night of Mi’raaj, when Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to Paradise, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a palace adorned with silk curtains. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: ‘O Jibraeel! Who is this for?’

He humbly replied: ‘For Sayyiduna Abu Bakar Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .’

(Al-Riyad-ul-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 110)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Maqaam-e-Mustawa

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went ahead of Sidra-tul-Muntaha, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم stopped there and apologised from going any further. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 2, pp. 381)

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I asked Jibraeel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: ‘Have you seen your Lord?’

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly replied: ‘There are seventy veils of Noor between me and my Lord. If I go near any one of them, I will get burnt.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 14, pp. 191, Hadees 39204)

Then, only Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went ahead (alone from Sidra-tul-Muntaha) and kept ascending. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived at a place called

Mustawa. Over here, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sounds of writing of pens. (Bukhari, Kitab-us-Salat, pp. 161, Hadees 349)

These were the pens that angels use to write the daily commandments of Allah Almighty. Moreover, they inscribe the events of one year from Lawh-e-Mahfooz [the Preserved Tablet] onto different pages. Then these pages are handed over to the relevant angels on the 15 th night of Sha’ban.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 155)

Special love for Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam indeed holds a lot of importance in regards to the Book of Deeds getting changed. The next Madani month, i.e. the lunar month, is “Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam” . Along with offering our Fard and Wajib acts, we should also perform Nafl Salah abundantly and observe Nafl Siyam enormously in the month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam. While associating this month towards himself, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: شَعْبَانُ شَھْرِیْ وَ رَمَضَانُ شَھْرُ اللہ i.e. Sha’ban is my month and Ramadhan is the month of Allah Almighty.’ (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 301, Hadees 4889)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there are numerous virtues of keeping Siyam in this blessed month as well.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘(After Ramadhan), the Siyam of Sha’ban are most superior, for honouring Ramadhan.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 377, Hadees 3819)

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would keep the Siyam of the entire month of Sha’ban. Sayyidatuna ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Out of all the months, is keeping the Siyam of Sha’ban most beloved to you?’ Upon this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Allah Almighty inscribes the name of every being who is to die this year. And I prefer that when my time of passing away comes, I be in the state of observing Sawm.’ (Musnad-e-Abu Ya’la, vol. 4, pp. 277, Hadees 4890)

For the sake of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, may Allah Almighty enable us to keep the Siyam of Sha’ban and then the entire month of Ramadan. If only we

could succeed in observing I’tikaf for the entire month of Ramadhan or last ten days of Ramadhan. If only we could collect a lot of Madani donations with good intentions.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Inscription on the door of Paradise

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘The night I went on Mi’raaj, I saw the following inscription written on the door of Paradise: Reward of Sadaqah is 10 times and the reward of (giving) loan is 18 times . I inquired from Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: ‘What is the reason that (giving) loan has exceeded Sadaqah?’ He replied: ‘The one asking for Sadaqah does have provisions [wealth] and still asks for Sadaqah, whereas, the one asking for loan does so only due to being needy.’

(Ibn-e-Majah, Kitab-ud-Sadaqat, pp. 389, Hadees 2431)

Persuasion of Madani donations

Dear Islamic brothers! From the aforementioned blessed Hadees, as we also come to know that we should earn abundant of rewards by giving a loan to a Muslim who needs it with other good intentions and for the pleasure of Allah Almighty as per our financial capability; at the same time, we also come to know that the one spending in the path of Allah Almighty also gains reward tenfold.

In order to get the passion of spending in the path of Allah Almighty, let’s listen to eight blessed Ahadees on the virtues of giving Sadaqah.

1. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Sadaqah shuts seventy doors of evil/calamity.

(Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 4402)

2. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Every person will be under the shade of his Sadaqah (on the Day of Judgement). To the extent that decision would be made among people. (Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 17, pp. 280, Hadees 771)

3. Indeed, Sadaqah saves the Sadaqah-giving people from the heat of grave. And undoubtedly, Muslim will be under the shade of his Sadaqah on the Day of Judgement. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 212, Hadees 3347)

4. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Sadaqah indeed extinguishes the wrath of Allah Almighty and alleviates a bad death.

(Tirmizi, Kitab-uz-Zakat, vol. 2, pp. 146, Hadees 664)

5. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Give Sadaqah early in the morning, as calamity does not exceed ahead of Sadaqah. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 214, Hadees 3353)

6. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Undoubtedly, Sadaqah of a Muslim increases age and stops a bad death. Moreover, by the virtue of it, Allah Almighty removes the evil practice of being arrogant and boastful from the Sadaqah-giving person. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 17, pp. 22, Hadees 31)

7. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, then it (Sadaqah) becomes a shield between him and the fire. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 286, Hadees 4617)

8. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Salah is the proof (of Iman). Sawm is a shield (from sins). And Sadaqah removes sins the way water extinguishes fire.

(Tirmizi, vol. 6, pp. 118, Hadees 614)

After mentioning the Ahadees of virtues of Sadaqat in Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 152, A’la Hazrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states these virtues in a form of Madani pearls:

From these Ahadees, it becomes evident that the Muslims who join this action with a righteous intention and pure wealth, they will reap innumerable benefits from the mercy of Allah Almighty and Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1. Those who give Sadaqah will be protected against a bad death by the bestowal of Allah Almighty.

2. Those who give Sadaqah, seventy doors of bad death will be shut upon them.

3. Those who give Sadaqah will have longer lifespans.

4. Count of those who give Sadaqah will increase.

5. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, there will be blessings in one’s sustenance.

6. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, one’s wealth will increase.

7. By the virtue of the habit of giving Sadaqah, one will never become dependent upon others.

8. Sadaqah-giving people will reap blessings and wellbeing.

9. Calamities and evils will move away from the Sadaqah-giving people.

10. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, a bad death will be avoided.

11. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, seventy doors of evil will shut down.

12. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, seventy types of evils will be removed.

13. Cities of Sadaqah-giving people will flourish.

14. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, distress will be removed.

15. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, one’s fear will be removed and he will attain peace of mind.

16. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, one will have the help of Allah Almighty.

17. Mercy of Allah Almighty will become Wajib [obligatory] for those who give Sadaqah.

18. Angels will send Durood upon those who give Sadaqah.

19. Those who give Sadaqah will perform those actions that bring about the pleasure of Allah Almighty.

20. Wrath of Allah Almighty will be removed from those who give Sadaqah.

21. Sins of Sadaqah-giving people will be forgiven. Forgiveness for Sadaqah-giving people will become Wajib. Fire of sins of Sadaqah-giving people will be extinguished.

22. Sadaqah-giving people will reap higher reward than those who free slaves.

23. Complicated affairs of Sadaqah-giving people will be resolved.

24. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, affection will increase among one another.

25. By the virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah, numerous people will get satiated with lesser expenses.

26. Ranks in the court of Allah Almighty will get elevated.

27. Sadaqah-giving people will be safe from the fire of Hell on the Day of Judgement.

28. Fire of Hell will be ‘Haraam upon Sadaqah-giving people.

29. Sadaqah-giving people will benefit from the favours of Allah Almighty in the Hereafter.

30. If Allah Almighty wills, by the virtue of the Na’layn (blessed sandal) of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sadaqah-giving people will be the first ones to enter Paradise. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 152)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You have heard that what a great action it is to give Sadaqah and by the virtue of the blessing of this action, what great blessings Sadaqah-giving people reap in this world and in the Hereafter. So hurry up and in order to attain these blessings, develop it a habit to give Sadaqah.

It is possible that a question arises in someone’s mind that if we want to give Sadaqah, then where shall we give it? For their guidance, it is requested to them that rather than going here and there, give your Sadaqat-e-Wajibah and Naafilah to the Madaris-ul-Madinah and Jami’aat-ul-Madinah that are running under the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Because the yearly expenses of Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for male and

بَعْدَ مَآ اَمَاتَنَا وَاِلَیْہِ النُّشُوْرُ ترجمہ: تمام تعریفیں اللہ پاک کے لئے ہیں جس نے ہمیں مارنے کے بعد زندہ کیا اوراُسی کی طرف لوٹ کر جانا ہے۔ (بخاری ، ۴/۱۹۶ ، حدیث: ۶۳۲۵)

(اعلانات)

تمام ذمہ دار اسلامی بہنیں یہ نیت بھی فرمالیں کہ ماہِ رمضان کی برکتوں کو پانے کے لیے دو اہم مدنی کام تربیتی حلقہ اور ہفتہ وار مدنی دورہ میں لازمی شرکت کریں گی ۔

تمام اسلامی بہنیں نیت فرمالیں کہ ہفتہ وارسنتوں بھرے اجتماع میں پابندی سے شرکت کیا کریں گی کہ ا گر ہم پابندی سے ہفتہ وار سنتوں بھرے اجتماع میں شرکت کریں گی تو اچھی اچھی باتیں سیکھتی رہیں گی ۔ اِنْ شَآءَ اللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ

اَلْحَمْدُللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ دعوتِ اسلامی کم وبیش 104شعبہ جات میں دینِ متین کی خدمت میں ملک و بیرونِ سرگرمِ عمل ہیں حالانکہ حالات ایسے ہیں کہ آج گناہوں کے پھیلانے پر بہت زیادہ سرمایہ خرچ کیا جارہا ہے، آئیے ہم گناہوں کو روکنے اور دین کے پھیلانے کے لیے اپنا سرمایہ خرچ کرنے کا عزم کریں۔

مدنی مراکز فیضانِ مدینہ

اَلْحَمْدُلِلّٰہ! مساجد کی تعمیرات کے ساتھ ساتھ مدنی مراکز "فیضانِ مدینہ "بنائے جاتے ہیں،ملک و بیرونِ ملک تقریباً 407فیضانِ مدینہ قائم ہیں۔

فرمانِ مصطفےٰ صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم: بیشک صَدقہ ربّ کے غضب کو بجھاتا اوربُری موت کو دفع کرتا ہے۔ ترمذی ، کتاب الزکا ۃ ، باب ما جاء فی فضل الصدقة ، ۲ / ۱۴۶، حديث: ۶۶۴

نیت فرمالیجئے کہ اپنے تمام تر صدقاتِ واجبہ و نافلہ (زکٰوۃ، صدقہ،خیرات وغیرہ) عاشقانِ رسول کی مدنی تحریک دعوتِ اسلامی کو دیں گی۔ اِنْ شَآءَ اللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ ۔۔۔ اللہ تعالٰی عمل کی توفیق عطا فرمائے۔ اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

تمام اسلامی بہنیں یہ پمفلٹ"ماہِ رمضان میں گناہ کرنے والے کی قبر کا بھیانک منظر"مکتبۃ المدینہ سے زیادہ تعداد میں

There are approximately 23,200 Madrassa-tul-Madinah Baalighan (for male students) in Pakistan and abroad and around 140,000 students are studying in them. Moreover, there are 3,307 Madrassa-tul-Madinah Balighat (for female students) in Pakistan and abroad and more than 38,000 students are studying in them.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! There are 616 branches of Jami’a-tul-Madinah established in Pakistan and abroad (11 countries: Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, South Africa, UK and USA). In these Jamya’s, more than 52,574 (male and female) students are separately undergoing the Dars-e-Nizami (scholar) course. 7,688 (male and female) students have completed the Dars-e-Nizami course .

Along with giving your Zakat, Sadaqat and Madani donations for the Madani activities of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, collect Madani donations from your relatives, neighbours and friends as well by making individual efforts upon them and mentioning them the virtues of spending in the path of Allah Almighty.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! As Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم witnessed the Divine rewards in Paradise for the obedient servants of Allah Almighty, at the same time, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also witnessed different types of terrifying torments that are for the disobedient people.

Painful consequence of those who backbite and look for flaws of people

The Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by some people who had some people appointed over them. Among them, some people had ripped open their jaws and others would cut their flesh and shove it in their mouth mixed with blood. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘O Jibraeel! Who are these people?’ He humbly replied: ‘They used to backbite people and look for their flaws.’ (Musnad-ul-Haris, vol. 1, pp. 172, Hadees 27)

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw some people in the Hell who were hung with the branches of fire. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘O Jibraeel! Who are these people?’ He humbly replied: ‘They are the ones who used to swear at their parents in the world.’ (Az-Zawajir, vol. 2, pp. 125)

That night, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also came to those people who had small pieces of flesh hanging behind them and in front of them. They were grazing like four-legged animals and swallowing thorny grass, thorny tree and the blazing rocks of the Hell. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘O Jibraeel! Who are these people?’ He humbly replied: ‘They are those who did not use to pay Zakat of their wealth. Allah Almighty has not oppressed them and Allah Almighty does not oppress people. ’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, pp. 263, Hadees 15)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder that how destructive and heinous are the acts of backbiting, revealing others’ flaws, swearing at parents and not paying Zakat despite it being Fard upon you. Unfortunately, all these four sins are becoming very common in our society. Moreover, these sins are in full swing, may Allah Almighty protect us. Therefore, those who are indulged in these evil acts should abandon these acts as soon as possible and repent sincerely; otherwise, if you miss this opportunity and death arrives before repenting, then there will be nothing but destruction. Remember! Life of this world is only for a few days, whereas, the life of the Hereafter is everlasting. Undoubtedly, successful is the one who repents of his sins sincerely and strives to make his afterlife better. Successful is the one who enters Paradise by acting upon the actions that bring about the pleasure of Allah Almighty and Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty says in Part 4, Surah Aal-e-Imran, Ayah No. 185:

فَمَنْ زُحْزِحَ عَنِ النَّارِ وَ اُدْخِلَ الْجَنَّةَ فَقَدْ فَازَؕ-وَ مَا الْحَیٰوةُ الدُّنْیَاۤ اِلَّا مَتَاعُ الْغُرُوْرِ(۱۸۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So the one who is saved from the Fire and is admitted into Paradise is successful. And the life of (this) world is but the goods of deception.

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 2, pp. 112: From this blessed Ayah, we come to know that the true success on the Day of Judgement will be that a person is freed from the Hell and entered into Paradise. Whereas, success of this world is in fact success from its own perspective, but if this success is harmful for the afterlife, then it is a means of loss in reality. Moreover, those who do everything for the success of this world and nothing for the success of the Hereafter are certainly in loss. Therefore, every Muslim should focus and strive more for such actions that can bring him the true success and refrain from those actions that become an obstacle in the way of attaining the true success.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

