اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Nafl Worship in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

It is stated on page 217 of the 660-page book Guldasta-e-Durood-o-Salam, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e- Islami: Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When the one who recites Salat upon me 100 times on a Friday, comes on the Day of Judgement, he will be accompanied by such Noor that will be sufficient for all of creation, if it is distributed.’

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 8, pp. 49, Hadees 11341)

کثرت سے دُرُود اُن پہ پڑھو رَبّ نے جو چاہا سینے میں اُتر آئیں گے انوارِ مدینہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام came to me on Shab-e-Bara`at and said to me to offer Salah after getting up. I asked, ‘O Jibra`eel! What night is this?’ He humbly said, ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! It is the night in which 300 doors of the sky and mercy are opened; all are forgiven except those who attribute partners to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, bear hatred and malice towards each other, drinkers (of intoxicants) and fornicators. These people are not forgiven until they sincerely repent. However, for a drinker, one door of mercy is left open, until he repents, and when he repents he is also forgiven. Likewise, for the one who bears malice towards each other, a door of mercy is left open, until he talks to his companion (with whom he bears malice). When he talks to him, he is also forgiven.’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘O Jibra`eel! If he does not talk to his companion, and Shab-e-Bara`at passes, then…?’ Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام humbly said, ‘If he remains in the same state, and (due to the agony of death) his breath stops, then for him too the door of mercy remains open; if he repents (of the malice he bears towards a Muslim before death), his repentance is accepted.’

Upon hearing this, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to Jannat-ul-Baqi’ and made Du’a in these words whilst in Sajdah:

اَعُوۡذُ بِعَفۡوِكَ مِنۡ عِقَابِكَ وَاَعُوۡذُ بِرِضَاكَ مِنۡ سَخَطِكَ وَاَعُوۡذُ بِكَ مِنۡكَ جَلَّ ثَنَاؤُكَ لَا اَبۡلُغُ الثَّنَاءَ عَلَيۡكَ اَنۡتَ كَمَا اَثۡنَيۡتَ عَلٰى نَفۡسِكَ

(i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!) I ask for Your forgiveness from Your punishment, Your pleasure from Your displeasure and Your shelter. Your praise is very high, I cannot praise You as You should be praised, Your real glory is that which You have mentioned Yourself.

Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام appeared in the fourth part of the night and humbly said, ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Raise your head towards the

sky.’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his head towards the sky, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the doors of mercy open. By the first door, an angel was calling out, ‘Congratulations to the one who worships in this night; by the second door as well, an angel was calling out, congratulations to the one who performs Sajdah in this night; by the third door, an angel was calling out, congratulations to the one who performs Ruku in this night; by the fourth door also, an angel was calling out, congratulations to the one who makes Du’a to his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this night; by the fifth door, an angel was calling out, congratulations to the one who is busy doing Munajat to his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; by the sixth door, an angel was calling out, congratulations to Muslims in this night; by the seventh door, an angel was calling out, congratulations to those who believe in the oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; by the eighth door, an angel was calling out, is there anyone who repents so that his repentance will be accepted? By the ninth door, an angel was calling out, is there anyone who asks for forgiveness so that he is forgiven? By the tenth door, an angel was calling out, is there anyone who makes Du’a so that his Du’a is accepted.’ Then the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘More people than the amount of hair on goats are forgiven in this night. In the same night, certain deeds of the whole year of the people are elevated (towards the skies) and in the same night, sustenance is also distributed.’ (Tareekh Ibn Asakir, vol. 51, pp. 72-73, Hadees 5923)

براءَت دے عذابِ قبر سے نارِ جہنّم سے

مہہِ شعبان کے صدقے میں کر فضل و کرم مولٰی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed great dignity, nobility and eminence upon the month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, in particular, the luminous night of 15 th Sha’ban is so great in which Muslims are forgiven by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When this sacred night arrives, the sea of mercy overflows to such an extent that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens 300 doors of mercy for His bondsmen; during this night, the innocent angels of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ give good news to those who perform Ruku’ and Sujood, perform Nafl worship, become

busy making Du’as and weep in regret. Due to the greatness of this night, during this night, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sometimes used to go to the graveyard of Jannat-ul-Baqi’ and weep in the state of Sajdah before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and sometimes he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to become occupied with Nawafil and Du’a etc. in his blessed home.

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah, Tayyibah, Tahirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: كَانَ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ عَلَيۡهِ وَسَلَّمَ يَدۡعُوۡ وَهُوَ سَاجِدٌ لَيۡلَةَ النِّصۡفِ مِنۡ شَعۡبَانَ, i.e. During the night of half of Sha’ban, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to make Du’as in the state of Sajdah.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 14, pp. 79, Hadees 38288)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember that our Beloved Prophet’s acts of performing Nafl worship with special attention and his asking for protection from the torment and displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this sacred night was for the education of the Ummah to follow in the blessed footsteps of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and so that his Ummah should also perform more worship during this night and are not deprived of the gifts and blessings of mercy from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Beloved Prophet’s acts of making repentance and doing Istighfar and asking for protection from the displeasure and anger of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ were not due to him committing sins at all because not only the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are completely innocent of sins (i.e. free from sins) by the grace and blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they are unable to commit any sins.

The commentator of the book Sahih Bukhari, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Sharif-ul-Haq Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: All the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, in particular, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are free from all sins. (Fatawa Shaarih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 363) Likewise, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are free from sins because they cannot commit sins. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 364)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely we all are very fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created us in the Ummah of His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and blessed us with the treasure of Islam. Furthermore, for the sake of His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed us with a sacred month like Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam which is full of benefits and blessings, therefore, in addition to performing compulsory and Wajib acts, we should increasing in making Zikr and recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, recite the Holy Quran, attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and weekly Madani Muzakarah, study the books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and Maktaba-tul-Madinah (the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami), as compared to ordinary days. We should give Sadaqah, distribute booklets for the Isal-e-Sawab of our deceased ones and visit the graveyard with the intention of practicing on a Sunnah, and make Du’a for their forgiveness. In addition to these acts, we should also perform more Nafl acts of worship. In fact, this blessed month is the favourite month of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the month in which we should increase the recitation of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to a parable to develop the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi.

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: There was a person who did not recite Salat upon the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One night, he was privileged to see the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream; the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not pay attention to him. He humbly said, ‘O Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Are you displeased with me?’ No, replied the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He humbly asked, ‘Then why do you not pay any attention to me?’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Because I do not recognise you.’ He humbly said, ‘How is it possible that you do not recognise me; I am one of your Ummatis (followers), and the Islamic scholars state that you know your Ummati better than a mother knows her son.’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The Islamic scholars have said right; but you do not remember me through Salat (Durood), and undoubtedly I recognize my Ummati as much as he recites Salat upon me.’

Upon awakening, he made it compulsory upon himself to routinely recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi one hundred times upon the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم every day. After sometime, he was again privileged to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream; the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘I now recognise you and I will intercede on your behalf.’

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp.30)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that the Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only gets pleased with the reciter of Salat, but also blesses him with his sight in a dream. Therefore, if we also want to attain the pleasure of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and wish to have his blessed sight in a dream, then we too should make Salat-‘Alan-Nabi our Wazifah (invocation) morning and evening and should do so from the bottom of our hearts, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one day we will definitely be blessed with the privilege of having his blessed sight.

In ‘ Al-Wazifa-tul-Karimah ’, A’la Hadrat Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has mentioned: One should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi purely for the respect and reverence of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, do not have the intention to have the blessed sight of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart, then his favour is limitless and endless. Facing sacred Madinah and concentrating the heart towards the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he should fold his hands and then recite by imagining that he is present by the sacred mausoleum (Raudah Mubarak) of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and believe that the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is watching him, listening to him and is aware of the feelings of his heart. (Al-Wazifa-tul-Karimah, pp. 28)

Dear Islamic brothers! Acting upon this method as stated by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, if we also develop the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi with sincerity and steadfastness, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ besides being privileged to have the blessed sight of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we will also gain

countless of benefits in this world and in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to some virtues of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for our persuasion:

In the book ‘ Jazb-ul-Quloob ’, Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: When a true believer recites Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends mercy on him ten times, elevates his status by ten times, grants him ten rewards and grants the reward of freeing 10 slaves and participating in 20 Ghazawat (battles).

Through Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, Du’as are answered. Reciting it makes the intercession of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Wajib. A reciter of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi will be blessed with closeness to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the door of Jannah. The recitation of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is sufficient for getting rid of all worries and for the fulfilment of all needs. Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is an atonement for sins and a substitute for Sadaqah, or rather superior to Sadaqah.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: Salat-‘Alan-Nabi removes difficulties, cures illnesses, overcomes fear, saves one from cruelty and oppression, bestows victory over enemies, brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, develops love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart; by reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi, the angels make the Zikr of that person. Salat-’Alan-Nabi completes one’s deeds; it purifies the heart including one’s life and possessions; the reciter gets prosperous, attains blessings, in fact his four generations will continue to receive its blessings. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 229)

یا نبی! بیکار باتوں کی ہو عادت مجھ سے دُور

بس دُرودِ پاک کی ہو خوب کثرت یا رسول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Abundant recitation of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is extremely necessary in order to attain blessings, esteem in Ma’rifah (deep insight in Divine matters) and closeness to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, therefore,

whenever we have time, especially in the sacred month of Sha’ban, we should increase in the recitation of Salat-’Alan-Nabi whether we are sitting, standing or walking etc., We should worship during the nights, and fast during the days. It was the routine of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform a lot of Nafl worship in this sacred month.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated, ‘The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would fast throughout Sha’ban.’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا once asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Do you like fasting the most in Sha’ban, out of all the months?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ records the name of every person who will die this year and I like to be in the state of fasting at the time of my demise.’

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 4, pp. 277, Hadees 4890)

Likewise, it is stated in another blessed Hadees: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not observe fasts so abundantly in any other month as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would do in the blessed month of Sha’ban, rather, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to fast for the entire month, and would say, ‘Act according to your capability, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not stop His blessings until you lose interest.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 648, Hadees 1970)

The commentator of the book Sahih Bukhari, ‘Allamah Mufti Muhammad Shareef-ul-Haq Amjadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has elaborated on this blessed Hadees as follows: The summary of this is that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to observe fasts in most of the days of Sha’ban, therefore this was regarded to fasting for the whole month. It is usually said, ‘So-and-so worshipped the whole night’, though he spent some time in eating and meeting his other needs. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: From this Hadees it has also been learnt that the person who is capable of fasting in Sha’ban, should fast abundantly.

(Nuzha-tul-Qaari, vol. 3, pp. 377-380)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sha’ban was the favourite month of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said, ‘Sha’ban was the favourite month of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe fasts in this month and then join it with Ramadan.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 476, Hadees 2431)

Ascribing this month to himself, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: شَعۡبَانُ شَهۡرِيۡ وَ رَمَضَانُ شَهۡرُ اللّٰهِ ‘i.e., Sha’ban is my month and Ramadan is the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 301, Hadees 4889)

Elaborating on this blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared the month of Sha’ban to be his month because he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to fast abundantly in this month, though these fasts were not Wajib for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared the month of Ramadan to be the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the fasts of Ramadan Fard. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 4, pp. 213, Hadees 4889)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the state of worship of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to fast most of the days of this month, on the other hand we have witnessed so many months of Sha’ban throughout our lives, but we have missed out on its distributions of forgiveness, we could not succeed in repenting of our sins, making a true intention to avoid committing sins further, offering Fard Salah regularly, giving Sadaqah, reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, observing fasts and performing other Nafl worships abundantly, and pleasing our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

For persuading us to worship abundantly in this month, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم practically performed Nafl worship. Mentioning the importance of this blessed month, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said that in between Rajab and

Ramadan there is a month of which people are heedless. It is the month in which people’s deeds are raised towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I would like my deeds to be raised in the state when I am fasting.’ (Sunan Nasa`ee, vol. 4, pp. 387, Hadees 2354)

Commanding us to perform Nafl worship, especially during the night of 15 th Sha’ban and to observe fast during the day, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When the night of 15 th Sha’ban approaches, stand (worship) in it and fast during the day because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ manifests His special Tajalli on the sky of the world from sunset and says, ‘Is there anyone who seeks forgiveness from Me so that I may forgive him! Is there anyone who asks for sustenance so that I may provide him with sustenance! Is there any afflicted person who I may relieve of his affliction! Is there anyone like this! Is there anyone like this!’ He عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues saying this until Fajr.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 160, Hadees 1388)

نارِ دوزخ سے مجھ کو اماں دے مغفرت کر کے باغِ جِناں دے

کر دے رحمت مِری اِلتجاء ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, not only have we been persuaded to perform Nafl acts of worship in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, but it has also been learnt that the deeds of the entire year are presented to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this month. It can be understood like this as well that from the point of view of changing the books of deeds, 14 th of Sha’ban-ul- Mu’azzam is the last day of the year and 15 th of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam is the first day of the year. Therefore, we should perform worships and do Istighfar abundantly in general, and in the whole month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, particularly on the 15 th of Sha’ban. We should make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the betterment of our worldly life and the Hereafter. In verse 3 and 4 of Surah Ad-Dukhan; part 25, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّاۤ اَنۡزَ لۡنٰہُ فِیۡ لَیۡلَۃٍ مُّبٰرَکَۃٍ اِنَّا

کُنَّا مُنۡذِرِیۡنَ ﴿۳﴾ فِیۡہَا یُفۡرَقُ کُلُّ اَمۡـرٍ حَکِیۡمٍ ۙ﴿۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Undoubtedly, We sent it down in a blessed night; verily We are to warn. Therein every affair of wisdom is divided.

Commenting on this blessed verse, a renowned commentator of the Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: This night refers to either Layla-tul-Qadr (which is) the 27 th night of (sacred Ramadan) or Shab-e-Mi’raaj or Shab-e-Bara`at (that is) the 15 th of Sha’ban. On this night, the entire Holy Quran was descended from Lawh-e-Mahfuz to the sky of the world and then from there it was revealed to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم little by little during a period of 23 years.

This verse also clarifies that the night in which the Holy Quran was revealed is sacred, so likewise, the night in which the Sahib-e-Quran صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (the one to whom the Quran was revealed) came into this world is also sacred. On this night, the year’s sustenance, death, life, honour, disgrace, and all other affairs are transferred from the Lawh-e-Mahfuz to the scriptures of the angels and each scripture is given to the angel appointed for that task. For example, the angel of death is given the list of all those who are going to die in this year. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 790)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that Shab-e-Bara`at is a very important night, therefore, it should not be spent carelessly in any case, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives countless of people on this night. As the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came to me and said, ‘This is the 15 th night of Sha’ban. On this night, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ frees people from hell equal to the number of the hair growing on the goats of Bani Kalb.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 3837)

Alas! There are some unfortunate people who have been declared to remain deprived of forgiveness even on Shab-e-Bara`at i.e. the night of deliverance. Sayyiduna Imam Bayhaqi Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has narrated in ‘ Fadaail-ul-Awqat ’: The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Six types of people will not be forgiven even on this night:

1. An alcoholic.

2. The one who is disobedient to parents.

3. One habitual of fornication.

4. The one who severs ties.

5. The one who sketches portraits.

6. A talebearer. (Fadaail-ul-Awqat, vol. 1, pp. 130, Hadees 27)

Similarly, in some other blessed Ahadees a soothsayer, a magician, the one who keeps his trousers (Shalwar or Tahband) below the ankles, due to arrogance, and the one who bears hatred and malice towards another Muslim without any Shar’i permission, they have also been declared to be deprived of forgiveness on this night. Therefore, if Muslims are committing any of the above-mentioned sins, they should repent of these sins (and all others) from the bottom of their hearts, before the arrival of Shab-e-Bara`at, in fact, they should sincerely repent right now without any delay.

It will be excellent if we associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami to remain steadfast on repentance, to perform good deeds for the betterment of this world and the Hereafter, to avoid committing sins and to develop more enthusiasm to perform Nafl worships. We should also take part, with dedication, in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah as well.

One of the (monthly) 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also ‘Madani Qafilah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessings of Madani Qafilahs travelling under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, Madani transformations have taken place in the lives of countless people. Furthermore, by virtue of these Madani

Qafilahs, people have started offering Salah in many Masajid. Madani Qafilah is the most important source to spread the call towards righteousness. But dear Islamic brothers! Remember! There are still many Masajid and areas which are looking forward to Madani Qafilahs. Indeed, there still remains many Muslims who are deprived of observing the compulsory fasts of Ramadan. Sins are abundantly committed in this month as well. There are many healthy people, who without any Shar’i reason, do not observe fasts, and in broad daylight they continue eating food without any hesitation in hotels and restaurants. However, if we see a Muslim eating food in a restaurant etc. openly, then too we should have a good opinion of him. Perhaps, he is not observing a fast due to some Shar’i reason.

Dear Islamic brothers! In this sacred month, especially through Madani Qafilahs we should present the call towards righteousness to these people also, prevent them from evils, give them the mind-set of observing compulsory fasts by informing them of the virtues of blessed Ramadan and we should make lots of individual efforts upon them. For the reception of blessed Ramadan, we should make such collective efforts that may create an environment in which the blessings of fasts can be seen everywhere. The schedule of a Madani Qafilah should include the activities of the Masjid and Chowk Dars etc. from the book Faizan-e-Ramadan [Blessings of Ramadan], to teach the necessary rulings of fasting in Ramadan and other acts of worship to the lovers of the Beloved Rasool. Try to send the pamphlet which is published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, ‘ Horrible end of the one who commits sins in Ramadan ’ to every home. How great would it be if we immediately invite these lovers of the Beloved Rasool to observe the whole-month or last ten-days in I’tikaf, as observed in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Especially spread the invitation of the grand whole-month Ramadan I’tikaf of the lovers of Ramadan that is observed in the global Madani centre, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Great virtues have been mentioned in many places in blessed Ahadees for those who regularly go to the Masjid to offer Salah.

1. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he heard the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم say: Indeed, those who regularly go to the houses of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, are actually the true bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 58, Hadees 2502)

2. At another place, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When a bondsman stays in a Masjid for Zikr or Salah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets pleased with him in a way as people get pleased when their missing person returns home. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 438, Hadees 800)

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping in mind the great Madani aim to reform ourselves and the people of the entire world, we should also make it our routine to travel with the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami in order to persuade people to go to the Masajid for Salah, to gain Islamic knowledge and in particular, to make excellent preparations for the ‘reception of Ramadan’ in the month of Sha’ban. By virtue of the blessings of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, let’s listen to a Madani parable of a lover of the Beloved Rasool who recovered from painful joints that he had been suffering from for a long time:

Here is a summary of an account given by an Islamic brother: I was unemployed and was also suffering from chronic joint pain. I was frustrated by the worries of my limited resources and troublesome joint pain. I underwent lots of treatments, but none benefitted me. Inspired by an Islamic brother’s invitation, I set out with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool in a Madani Qafilah to learn the Sunna h. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the blessings of the Sunna h-inspiring travel with the Madani Qafilah and the affectionate company of the lovers of the Beloved Prophet, my long-term joint pain had completely gone. The very next day after returning from the Madani Qafilah, I met an Islamic brother who found a job for me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At the time of relaying this incident of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, one year has passed and I still have my job and the pain has not returned.

جوڑ جوڑ آپ کے، ہوں اگر دُکھ رہے کر کے ہمّت چلیں، قافِلے میں چلو

تنگدستی مِٹے، رِزق سُتھرا ملے دَر کرم کے کُھلیں، قافِلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also make it our routine to travel with Madani Qafilahs by being associated with the Madani environment because by virtue of its blessings, the worries of this world and the Hereafter will be removed. We will also be blessed with the enthusiasm to respect these sacred days and we shall receive the yearning to worship in these days. Our pious predecessors and holy saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were also fully aware of the importance of this sacred month, therefore, they used to increase their Nafl worships, and when the blessed month of Ramadan arrived, they used to be overjoyed, and their passion for worship increased further.

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘When the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم saw the moon of Sha’ban, they would busy themselves with reciting the Holy Quran. Muslims would pay Zakah of their possessions so that the weak and the poor could also fast in the month of Ramadan. The governors would summon the prisoners to enforce sentence on the criminals and others were set free. Businessmen would pay off their debts and collect their dues. (In this way, they would get free to worship before the appearance of the moon of Ramadan), and as soon as the moon of Ramadan appeared, they would perform Ghusl and (some) would start observing ‘I’tikaf.’

(Ghunya-tut-Talibeen, vol. 1, pp. 246)

آ گیا رمضاں عبادت پر کمر اب باندھ لو

فیض لے لو جلد یہ دن تِیس کا مہمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It has been the practice of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه for ages that not only does he perform acts of Nafl worship abundantly himself in Sha’ban, but he also makes the mind of Muslims, from time to time, through his effective writings, Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs, that is full of knowledge and wisdom, to perform acts of Nafl worship in abundance in this month.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It has been the practice of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه to offer six Nawafil and to recite Surah Yaseen etc. in Shab-e-Bara`at for ages. It is a Nafl worship, performed after Maghrib Salah, not Fard or Wajib. There is no prohibition of offering Nawafil and reciting the Holy Quran in Shari’ah after Maghrib Salah.

‘Allamah Ibn Rajab Hanbali عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has mentioned: Among the Syrians, the grand Tabi’een like Sayyiduna Khalid Bin Ma’daan, Sayyiduna Makhool, Sayyiduna Luqman Bin ‘Aamir and others (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) always had great reverence for Shab-e-Bara`at and worshiped abundantly during this night. Other Muslims learnt the reverence for this holy night from these great saints. (Lata`if-ul-Ma’arif, vol. 1, pp. 145)

It is stated in the authentic book of Hanafi Fiqh, Durr-e-Mukhtar: In Shab-e- Bara`at, staying awake (to worship) is Mustahab. This vigil does not necessitate staying awake for the whole night; awaking for most part of the night is also referred to as a full night of vigil (staying awake to worship).’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 568, vol. 2; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 679)

Dear Islamic brothers! Study the booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat namely ‘ The Month of My Prophet ’ to gain more information about the Nafl acts of worship, performed in the sacred month of Sha’ban. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this booklet, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned the virtues of Nafl fasts, the causes which deprive people of forgiveness on the night of 15 th Sha’ban, the excellence of the fast observed on the 15 th Sha’ban, six Nawafil which are offered on the 15 th night of Sha’ban and their method, Du’a of half Sha’ban, condemnation of fireworks and at the end, 11 Madani pearls of visiting a graveyard. Therefore, this booklet should be obtained today from a stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Read it yourself and buy as many as you can to present it to other Islamic brothers as a gift with the intention to gain reward and to do good. It can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Since people remain awake and perform acts of worship etc. in Masajid during Shab-e-Mi’raaj, Shab-e-Bara`at, Shab-e-Qadr and other sacred nights, by keeping the respect and honour of the Masjid in mind, they should avoid laughing, making a noise, gossiping and other worldly talks especially in the Masjid. Similarly, for getting special virtues and blessings of these blessed days, a large number of lovers of the Beloved Rasool are privileged to observe Nafl fasts as well. If Sahari and Iftari are arranged inside the Masjid, then one should be very careful as there should not be any kind of disrespect to the Masjid during Sahari and Iftari. The floor and Musallah of a Masjid should be protected from being messed. A Masjid should be kept neat and clean from every aspect so that those who offer Salah may not have any sort of problems or difficulties and the sin of disrespecting a Masjid may not be committed. Likewise, a Masjid should be protected from the noise of children as well.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A time will come ‘ يَكُوۡنُ حَدِيۡثُهُمۡ فِيۡ مَسَاجِدِهِمۡ فِيۡ اَمۡرِ دُنۡيَاهُمۡ ’, when worldly things will be discussed in the Masajid ‘ فَلَا تُجَالِسُوۡهُمۡ فَلَيۡسَ لِلّٰهِ فِيۡهِمۡ حَاجَةٌ ’, do not sit with these people, for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has nothing to do with them. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 87, Hadees 2962)

Regarding the explanation of this blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not grant them favour, otherwise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not need anyone, He is free of needs.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 457)

Dear Islamic brothers! Unfortunately it is becoming very common to talk about worldly issues in the Masjid. Nowadays, whilst sitting in a Masjid, not only are worldly and informal conversations held, but knowingly and unknowingly sometimes such acts are also performed which are contrary to the manners of a Masjid. Just ponder over this! Unfortunate are those who talk about the world inside the Masjid! The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to sit with these unfortunate people.

Remember! By running inside the Masjid, sneezing loudly, coughing or belching, yawning unnecessarily with a loud voice, eating and sleeping etc. without making the intention to observe I’tikaf, not only destroy the sanctity of a Masjid, but contain some acts which are impermissible and Haraam. Let’s listen to 12 Manners of a Masjid from ‘ Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat ’ a 568-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, in order to develop the enthusiasm to respect and honour the Masajid:

1. Whenever you enter a Masjid, place your right foot first, then the left one and when you exit, leave with the left then the right.

2. Nothing is allowed to be eaten in the Masjid without the intention of I’tikaf.

1. It is a common practice in many Masajid that Iftari is sent for those who offer Salah in the sacred month of Ramadan. Without making an intention of I’tikaf they unhesitatingly eat food and mess the floor, and this is impermissible.

2. After performing Wudu, do not let a single drop of water drip from your washed body parts onto the Masjid floor.

3. Running or stamping the feet, producing the sound of heavy footsteps in the Masjid is prohibited.

4. If you sneeze or cough in the Masjid, try to keep the voice low. (It is stated in a blessed Hadees): The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم disliked the loud voice of a sneeze in the Masjid. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 32)

5. One should also control the belch. If it is not possible to stop a belch, then the voice of the belch should be kept under control whether or not he is in the Masjid. Care should also be taken especially in a Majlis or before an honourable person as to belch loudly is rude and socially unacceptable. It is stated in a blessed Hadees, ‘A man belched in the presence of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Keep your belch away from us, as those who filled their stomachs for a long time in the world, will remain hungry for a long time on the Day of Judgement.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 217, Hadees 2486)

One should not make a sound while yawning whether he is in the Masjid or anywhere else because yawning is the laughter of Satan. Try your best to keep your mouth closed (because) when a person opens his mouth, Satan spits into his mouth. If it is not possible to stifle a yawn, press your lower lip with your upper teeth. If it doesn’t stop either, open your mouth as small (less) as possible and put the back of your left hand over the mouth. The same can be done in Salah as well, but in the state of Qiyam (standing) put the back of your right hand over the mouth as by placing the left hand means both the hands will be changed from their Masnoon position. Keeping the right hand means it is changed as per the need, but the left hand will remain there as per the Sunnah. One more

1. proven way of stifling a yawn is that if you begin to yawn, then immediately imagine that the Prophets عَـلَيْهِمُ السَّلَام never yawned.

2. Nothing of the world should be discussed inside the Masjid. However, if you want to say something related to the religion to someone, then it should be said to that person in a low voice after approaching him, rather than standing inside the Masjid talking loudly to someone standing on the road outside or someone who is calling from outside, and he is replying to him in a loud voice from inside the Masjid.

3. Joking is already forbidden and is strictly impermissible in a Masjid. Laughing in Masjid is forbidden because it causes darkness in the grave. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 41, Hadees 3706)

However, there is no harm in smiling when necessary. Nothing should be thrown on the Masjid floor, but rather it should be gently placed on it. In summer, people often use hand-operated fans and then throw them onto the floor of the Masjid or at the time of placing something, it is dropped from a distance (making a noise), and that is prohibited. In short, respecting the Masjid is Fard for every Muslim.

4. Breaking wind in the Masjid is prohibited. One should go out if necessary, Therefore, a Mu’takif should eat less food during I’tikaf and keep his stomach rather empty so that he may not have to break wind except at the time of defecation, because he is not allowed to go out for this.

5. Stretching the legs towards the Qiblah is prohibited everywhere and one should avoid doing so towards any direction in a Masjid as it is contrary to the manners of the Masjid. Once Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was sitting in the Masjid alone, he stretched his legs out. Suddenly he heard a voice from a corner of the Masjid, ‘Do [people] sit in this same manner before the kings?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه immediately pulled his legs back and did not stretch them out again until his death.

(Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 317-323)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Alas! Due to a lack of Islamic knowledge Muslims of today give no importance to this guest of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ i.e. ‘the month of Sha’ban’. In this great month especially on Shab-e-Bara`at, instead of receiving the gifts bestowed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and repenting of their sins they do not worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but perform Haraam, impermissible and such acts leading the Hell, viz. like setting off fireworks by imitating the enemies and make lots of noise. Furthermore, by disturbing the Muslims, who are busy reciting the Holy Quran and offering Nawafil, doing Zikr and Azkaar etc. or by disturbing the sleep of those who are asleep or by disturbing the peace of the sick, children, women and elderly in their homes and causing inconveniences to them, they incur the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Whether fireworks are set off in Shab-e-Bara`at or in a wedding ceremony, it is Haraam everywhere in every condition, and contains many sins. It is a waste of their money. The person who wastes his money, has been called the brother of Satan in the Holy Quran and with such people, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are displeased. Furthermore, there is a fear of a person’s hands or feet getting burnt or one’s home being burnt and to put one’s life or another’s life and possession in danger unnecessarily, is Haraam according to Shari’ah. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 152)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness, spreading knowledge of the Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and illuminating the world with the light of Islamic knowledge . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has reached approximately 200 countries of the world and almost more than 100 departments have been setup to organize and coordinate the system of Dawat-e-Islami. ‘Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya’ is also one of these departments. The responsible Islamic brothers of this Majlis visit the blessed shrines of the

pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and carry out various Islamic services over there along with other Madani activities. For example, on the occasion of the ‘Urs of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, they arrange an Ijtima’ of Zikr and Na’at, make arrangements for Madani Qafilahs of the lovers of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, to stay in Masajid adjacent to the blessed shrines, and in particular, they arrange Sunnah-inspiring Madani Halqahs in the courtyard of the blessed shrine in which the methods of Wudu, Ghusl, Tayammum, Salah, Isal-e-Sawaab etc., as well as the manners of visiting the shrines and the blessed Sunnah of Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are taught. Furthermore, people are persuaded to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and weekly Madani Muzakarahs of Dawat-e-Islami. They are also persuaded to travel with the Madani Qafilahs and to act upon the Madani In’amaat.

During the ‘Urs, plenty of Isal-e-Sawaab is made to the blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه of that Mazaar. Efforts are also made, from time to time, to visit and inform the custodians (Mutawallis, Sajjadah Nasheens, Khulafa) of the services rendered by Dawat-e-Islami, Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madaris-ul-Madinah and the Madani activities being carried out in the country and overseas countries etc. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make Dawat-e-Islami progress in leaps and bounds!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to a few virtues of Nafl fasts in the light of some blessed Ahadees:

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated, ‘On the Day of Judgement, the fasting people will rise from their graves and be recognised by the smell of fasts. For them a Dastar-Khuwan (dining mat) and clay-glasses full of water

will be placed which will have seals of musk, they shall be told, ‘Eat (because due to fasting in the world) you were hungry, drink (because due to fasting in the world) you were thirsty, rest (because due to fasting in the world) you were tired.’ Hence they will eat and drink, however at this time, people will be suffering the hardship of accountability and thirst. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 213, Hadees 23639; At-Tadween fi Akhbar Qazween, vol. 2, pp. 326)

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-‘Umaarah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated, ‘Once the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to me, I presented some food to him. He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You also eat.’ I replied, ‘I am fasting.’ Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Angels continue making Du’a for the fasting person’s forgiveness as long as someone eats before him.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 205, Hadees 785)

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to (Sayyiduna) Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ, ‘O Bilal! Come and have breakfast.’ Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ replied, ‘I am fasting.’ Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘We are eating our sustenance while the sustenance of Bilal (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ) is increasing in Paradise.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said, ‘O Bilal! Do you know that angels continue making Du’a for the fasting person’s forgiveness and his bones make Tasbih as long as someone eats before him?’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 297, Hadees 3586)

§ Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have heard about the importance of Nafl acts of worship in the month of Sha’ban as in this sacred month, the worshippers are privileged to get the Du’as of the innocent angels of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also, from time to time, highlighted the importance of this sacred month in different ways. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Nawafil and observed fasts abundantly and also persuaded his Ummah to abundantly perform Nafl worship and said in

§ order to awaken us to the fact that this month is between Rajab and Ramadan in which people are heedless, though in it the deeds of people are presented to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ The people who worship during the sacred night of the 15th Sha’ban are given glad tidings: Congratulations to the one who worships during this night, congratulations to the one who performs Sajdah during this night, congratulations to the one who performs Ruku’ during this night, congratulations to the one who makes Du’a to his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ during this night, congratulations to the one who gets occupied with supplications to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ during this night; sometimes calls are being made like this: Is there anyone who repents so that his repentance is accepted? Is there anyone who seeks forgiveness so that he is forgiven? Is there anyone who makes Du’a so that his Du’a is accepted?

§ The night of the 15 th Sha’ban, which is the most important night of this sacred month, is also called Shab-e-Bara`at i.e. the night of deliverance because during this night Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ frees people from Hell equal to the number of the hair growing on the goats of the tribe Bani Qalb.

§ Persuading us to worship especially during the night of the 15 th Sha’ban, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Spend this night in worship and fast during the day. Therefore, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی not only performed Nafl worship abundantly themselves, but also persuaded Muslims to do so, therefore, instead of destroying the sanctity of this sacred night by making lots of noise and committing many other types of sins, harming ourselves and other Muslims’ life and possessions by setting off fireworks and displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we should sincerely repent of all sins so that we can please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should perform a lot of Nafl worship by doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, reciting the Holy Quran and by performing many other good deeds.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to Sunan and manners of tying an ‘Imamah from the booklet of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه namely ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’:

Firstly, two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. 2 Rak’aat of Salah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah are better than offering 70 Rak’aat without wearing one.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 265, Hadees 3233)

2. The ‘Imamah on a Topi (hat) is a difference between us and the unbelievers; for every furl that a Muslim makes on his head, a Noor will be granted to him on the Day of Judgement.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 353, Hadees 5725)

3. Tie the ‘Imamah whilst standing, facing the Qiblah.

(Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas lish-Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Dihlvi, pp. 38)

4. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards (2.28 meters) in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards (5 meters), and it should be tied in a dome-like fashion.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

1. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

2. If the ‘Imamah has to be tied again, then it should be untied in the way it was tied, it should not be thrown on the ground at all, the first time.

3. If the ‘Imamah is to be taken off due to some need and there is the intention of binding it again, then one sin will be erased on untying each fold . (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 214)

4. Winter and summer directly affects the hair of bareheaded people; it not only affects their hair, but also the brain and face, and may harm their health. Therefore, with the intention of acting upon a Sunnah, if someone ties an ‘Imamah on his head, he will attain the safety and peace of both the worlds.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

