اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Piety of Ghaus-e-Pak’s Parents

And the Biographical Description of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me three times during the day and three times at night with love and devotion, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive the sins he committed during that day and that night.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 18, pp. 362, Hadees 928)

اپنے خَطا واروں کو اپنے ہی دامن میں لو!

کون کرے یہ بھلا، تم پہ کروروں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir is upon us. This is the blessed month in which the ‘Urs of Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is celebrated on the 11 th . In relation to this, today we will also have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about the piety of the parents of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and the upbringing of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ by them. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was born in an extremely great family. His family was very famous for their piety. His mother’s name was Fatimah, the daughter of Shaykh Abdullah Sauma’i رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَمَا, her filial appellation was ‘ اُمّ الۡخَیْر ’, and her title was ‘ اَمَۃُ الْجَبَّار ’ (Kaneez of Allah). (Khazeenat-ul-Asfiya, pp. 157)

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam’s father’s blessed name was ‘Sayyid Musa’, his filial appellation was ‘Abu Saalih’ and his title was ‘Jangi Dost’ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-Saqalayn, pp. 52, Az Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat, pp. 16)

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is a Hasani Sayyid from his father (and from his mother he is a Husayni Sayyid). He is descended from Sayyiduna Imam Hasan tracing back through 10 generations.

(Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-Saqalayn, pp. 52, Az Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat, pp. 15)

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak’s father, Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was among the well-known men of distinction of his time.

(Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-Saqalayn, pp. 52, Az Ghaus-e-A’zam kay Halaat, pp. 16)

It has been narrated that once during devotional and spiritual exercises, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak’s father, Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had experienced starvation for a third time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was sitting on a river bank when an apple came to him afloat. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ate it. Later on he thought that as to whose apple it was he had eaten. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thought how could it be Halal for him to have eaten that apple? With this thought he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started walking on the river bank to look for the owner

of the apple to make an apology. Having travelled a long distance, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw an extremely grand building with a very big apple tree with its branches full of fruit hanging over the water, from which ripe apples were falling into the water. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه realized that the apple he had eaten was from that tree, therefore he asked about the owner of the orchard. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to know that Sayyiduna Abdullah Sauma’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the owner of the orchard and the grand building. Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to him and related the whole incident and then made an apology. Sayyiduna Abdullah Sauma’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه realized that this person was one of the beloved people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He said: Serve me for 12 years, then your apology will be accepted. Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه accepted it happily and served him for 12 years. After that period had ended, Sayyiduna Abdullah Sauma’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: There is one more service you have to perform, that is I have a daughter with four disabilities; she is blind, deaf, disabled by hands and is lame. You have to serve for 2 years more after performing Nikah with her. Then, wherever you want you can go.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accepted this as well. Having performed Nikah, the moment he saw the face of his wife he was astonished to see that all the parts of her body were safe and sound and she was extremely beautiful, even the night of a full moon stood nowhere before her beauty. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not approach her finding her contrary to what he was informed and related the whole incident to Sayyiduna Abdullah Sauma’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . So he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Whatever attributes I mentioned to you are correct word for word. She is blind to Na-Mahram, deaf to something that is not right, disabled by hands for touching strange men and lame for moving against your order. Having heard this Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه developed great respect for his wife in his heart and they both started living happily.

(Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-A’zam, pp. 26)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable not only have we learnt about the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, piety and abstinence, chastity and modesty of Ghaus-e-Pak’s family, but also that they would happily tolerate great difficulties to fulfil the rights of people due to the fear of being disgraced on the Day of Judgment. That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accepted all the difficult conditions of the owner of the apple just to seek forgiveness, and he was only relieved after fulfilling the right of that owner.

The people who do not pay even a little attention to the rights of people should learn a lesson from this parable. Those who forcefully take someone’s things without their permission, pick something quietly from someone’s vegetables and fruit barrow and put them in their own baskets or get temporary pleasure by eating them immediately should think that if even an ordinary thing is picked without permission and then we will be caught on the Day of Judgment, then what will happen to us? Undoubtedly, the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are great, but in terms of repentance, the matter of the rights of people is tougher than the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If somebody deprives another person of his rights and does not ask his pardon in the world, then on the Day of Judgment, that person will have to pay compensation with his good deeds. If the rights are not fulfilled in this way, then he has to be made responsible for his sins as well. The matter of the rights of people is very sensitive, but alas! Today, fearlessness is everywhere. Not only the general public, but also the eminent people are usually found heedless of this. Remember! To borrow things from others and then keep them deliberately, to borrow thousands or millions on loan and not to return it, to steal or snatch others’ possessions considering it a minor act, to go to someone’s celebration without receiving any invitation, to gather others’ possessions or wealth in the name of a bribe, to throw garbage next to someone's house or shop or on his roof or in his plot, in short, to violate the rights of people by considering it a minor act, seems very easy in the world, but on the Day of Judgment, these things must be returned to the one who deserves them and it will become very difficult to please him. Let’s listen to two sayings of our Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the importance of fulfilling the rights of people:

v The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked the blessed companions, ‘ اَتَدْرُوْنَ مَنِ الْمُفْلِسُ ؟ ’ ‘Do you know who is destitute?’ The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly said, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! The destitute amongst us is he who has neither any dirham nor any other possession’. The Prophet of Mercy صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(No! In reality, these people are not destitute, rather) the destitute amongst my Ummah on the Day of Judgement will be one who will arrive with Salah, Fasts and Zakah, but he will arrive having abused someone, slandered someone, having extorted his wealth, shed his blood, abused him. Thus, (in exchange for his sins) these oppressed people will be compensated with some of his good deeds from his account. If his good deeds are not enough to repay what is due to them, then the sins of the oppressed people will be thrown upon that cruel man and thereafter he will be thrown into the fire.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1394, Hadees 2581)

v The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You people will pay the rights to whom they are due, even the hornless goat will take revenge on the horned goat .’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1394, Hadees 2582)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our blessed and pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would take great care regarding Huqooq-ul-‘Ibaad (rights of people) as we have already heard the parable of the blessed father of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and we too should follow in the footsteps of these blessed people.

The passion of piety, asceticism and calling towards righteousness of Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is highly admirable. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a man of abstinence and self-restraint who struggled hard against his Nafs, he remained deeply engaged in worship and devotion, invited others towards righteousness and preventing them from evils and he never dared to stake his life for this noble cause of enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong.

Hence, one day he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was going towards the Jaami’ Masjid and he saw that some servants of kings were heading to the palace of the king, cautiously carrying the clay pots filled with liquor on their heads. Overcome by the passion of نَھْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rushed there and broke those pots. Having seen the awe and majesty of Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, no servant could dare do anything they all left without saying a single word but related the whole incident to the king and incited the King against Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The king summoned Sayyid Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to his court; Sayyid Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived there and found the king sitting on his throne flowing into a rage. The king said: ‘Who are you to waste all the efforts of my servants?’ Sayyid Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘I am a supervisor and I have just discharged my duty.’ The king asked: ‘Who has designated you as a supervisor?’ Sayyid Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied in his awe-inspiring and domineering voice: The One Who has appointed you as a king.’ Listening to such a straight forward reply and being overcome with deep emotions; the king put his head on his knees and requested after a while: Except for اَمْرٌ بِالْمَعْرُوْفِ وَنَہْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر (enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong), What was the wisdom behind breaking the clay pots?’ Sayyid Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘For the sake of saving you from disgrace in this world and in the Hereafter while showing affection towards you. The wise conversation of Sayyid Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه inspired the king greatly and he humbly said: O pious man! ‘You are also appointed to the designation of a supervisor on my behalf.’ Sayyid Abu Saalih Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied in a very relaxed manner: When I have been designated by the Lord Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then after that privilege I need no designation from the creation.’ Since that day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was known by the title of ‘Jangi Dost’.

(Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-Saqalayn, pp. 16 Az Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat, pp. 16)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! The Awliya of Allah رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would enlighten the wealthy and would advise them directly rather than flatter them. One who flatters the wealthy people is actually greedy for the despicable wealth of this world. The Awliya of Allah رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have the Madani wealth of contentment. All they want is the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, not

the fleeting wealth of the rich. Remember! It is strictly forbidden to show humility to the wealthy people due to their wealth. It is stated that the one who is humble with a wealthy person because of his wealth, two thirds of his Deen [i.e. religion] goes away. (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 2, pp. 215, Raqm 2442)

If somebody sees anyone committing a sin and there is a strong likelihood that the sinner will give up the sin if advised, then it is a more reward-reaping act to prevent the sinner from that sin than to deliver even many hours of a long speech. This is because preventing the sinner is Fard in this case and one not preventing such a sinner from the sin is himself a sinner and deserving the torment of Hellfire . It is stated on page 615 of the third volume of Bahar-e-Shari’at published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sadr-ush-Shari’ah Badr-u-Tareeqah ‘Allamah Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: If there is a strong likelihood that they (i.e. the evildoers) will follow his advice refraining from evil, then in this case it is Wajib for him to fulfil the obligation of اَمرٌ بِالمَعْرُوف (i.e. to enjoin good).

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember, our task is to call people towards righteousness, not to make them accept. However, if there is a need to stop a non-Shar’i act somewhere, it is necessary to stop it. In the 660-page book named ‘Bahar-e-Shari’at’ published by Maktab-tul-Madinah the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami, volume 3, on page 615, it has been stated: If someone is seen committing a sin, then forbid him seriously and gently and he should be made to understand in a proper way, if this method does not work and he does not abstain from it, then he should be reprimanded with severe words, but he should not be abused, nor should swear words be uttered and even if this does not work, then the person who (ruler/king) can do something by his hands, such as if a person drinks wine, then his wine should be poured down, the vessels should be broken, if he sings songs, then his musical instruments should be broken.

Anyhow we should avoid flattering and welcoming rich worldly people, and not miss any opportunity to present the call towards righteousness to them with love and affection. In addition to the rich, we should try to present the

call towards righteousness more and more to the poor as well, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will be of great benefit. Therefore, sincerely present the call towards righteousness. Let’s listen to two blessed Ahadees about the excellence of presenting the call towards righteousness:

v Smiling at your brother is also Sadaqah, enjoining good is also Sadaqah, preventing from evil is also Sadaqah.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 1963)

v It is narrated that Sayyiduna Nabi Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, if someone brings his brother towards righteousness, and prevents his brother from sins then what would be the reward for such an individual?’ The Merciful Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ replied, ‘I will write the reward of one year’s worship in exchange for each word of his and I feel shyness to give him the punishment of Hell.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 48)

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed act of calling others towards righteousness is a deed of great reward; our pious predecessors, mostly, used to engage in carrying out this blessed act. Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه committedly continued this noble obligation of inviting others towards righteousness by advising and teaching them for 40 years.

Inspired and spell-bound by Ghaus-e-Pak’s awe-struck virtues and remarkable excellence, hundreds of non-believers embraced Islam on his hands and countless sinners sought repentance of their sinful lives. Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said about himself that more than 500 non-believers embraced Islam on my hands and more than one hundred thousand (100000) thieves, transgressors, innovators and sinful people sought repentance.

(Bahjah-tul-Asraar, pp. 184)

Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ devoted a large part of his life in enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong. It was also for this reason that the entire household and lineage of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

was the best example of knowledge, teachings, fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, piety and righteousness. The blessed paternal grandfather, blessed maternal grandfather, blessed father, blessed mother, blessed paternal aunt, blessed brother and blessed sons, the blessed household of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had reached the highest pinnacle of piety and purity. It is for this reason that this blessed family was renowned as the family of ‘Ashraf’.

(Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat, pp. 16)

Dear Islamic brothers! There is no doubt that the foundation plays an important role in the strength of a building. If the foundation is weak, then the building will also be weak, and vice-versa. Likewise, the home environment has its great effect on the life of children. The child, brought up by the person who is habitual of drinking, pleasure-seeking, hurling abuses and does not offer Salah, is affected by these bad habits, but if the family members are good-mannered, polite, offer Salah regularly and follow the blessed Sunnah, then the child who is brought up by them will have these pure attributes.

If we wish that the environment of our homes became such an environment that every individual of our family would weep for fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love of Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, spread the call to righteousness, avoid sins and prevent others from sins, become punctual in performing Salah, steadfast in following the Sunnah, fond of reciting the Holy Quran etc., we will have to be practical in order to fulfil this wish, instead of wishing, we will have to do something. In order to make these Madani pearls practical in our homes, let us pluck the courage, associate yourselves with the Madani environment and involve yourself in Madani activities practically, stop watching different sinful channels and tune into the one hundred percent Islamic Madani Channel in your homes, then observe the Madani change. Being under the evil influence of sinful channels, the child who becomes overjoyed by listening to songs and music will enjoy the sweet voices of the recitations of the Quran and Na’at being televised on Madani Channel. The child who disobeys his parents being under the evil influence of sinful

channels, will become obedient, form a pious character and habit of polite conversations by watching Madani Channel and by watching different series [of programmes] which are full of Madani training. Men, women, children and the elderly, every member of the family will get Madani training to such an extent that you will witness the reforms for yourself اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us 19 Madani pearls to create a Madani environment at home. You can read these Madani pearls on page 192 of the book 'Nayki Ki Dawat ' and on page 28 of the booklet 72 Madani In’amaat both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. If you act upon these Madani pearls, your home will become peaceful and a home of Sunnah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Once there was some controversy regarding the sighting of the moon of Ramadan. Some people said that the moon had appeared while others denied this. The respected and honourable mother of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ spoke, ‘My son doesn’t drink milk during the days of Ramadan. As he has not drunk milk today, the moon of Ramadan may have appeared last night.’ Therefore, after further observations it was confirmed that the moon had appeared last night. (Bahjah-tul-Asraar, pp. 172)

غوثِ اعظم متّقی ہر آن میں چھوڑا ماں کا دُودھ بھی رَمَضان میں

The great eminence and glory of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can be understood from this that when the tradition of ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ took place when he was 5 years old he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited until the 18 part of the Glorious Quran by memory and related that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had memorised these 18 parts when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in the womb of his blessed mother.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! His Majesty Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a Wali (saint) by birth. His mother would recite 18 parts of the Glorious Quran and he had memorized those 18 parts whilst in the womb of his pious mother and at the age of 5, he recited (those 18 parts) by heart in front of his teacher.

It has become obvious that those deeds performed during the days of pregnancy, have a deep impact on the personality of a child, therefore, during pregnancy, Islamic sisters should worship as much as possible, recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr-o-Durood abundantly, perform virtuous deeds steadfastly, eat Halal sustenance so that the formation of the child's body is from Halal food, give charity abundantly, avoid sins like lies, backbiting, tale-telling etc., make a routine of eating, drinking, dressing, sleeping etc. according to the Sunnah. Some Islamic sisters hang a picture of a baby during the days of their pregnancy; it is not permissible to hang a picture of any living being at home. Remember! If mothers are habitual of these virtuous deeds, these blessings will also appear in their children اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and if مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they watch films, dramas and listen to songs and music, the impact on the child growing in the womb will easily be seen when the child grows up to be disobedient. When mothers used to be fond of worship, spiritual exercises and recitation of the Holy Quran, the children brought up in their custody, would be examples of knowledge, good deeds and the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When mothers started to miss their Salah, take up fashion and wander around unveiled, their children have also been following the same path and spending the lives in immorality. Remember! Along with providing means of apparent beauty and adornment, healthy food, fine clothing and other necessities, moral and spiritual training is also very necessary. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says:

یٰۤـاَ یُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡا قُوۡۤا اَنۡفُسَکُمۡ وَ اَہۡلِیۡکُمۡ نَارًا وَّ قُوۡدُہَا النَّاسُ وَ الۡحِجَارَۃُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O those who believe, save yourselves and your family from the fire whose fuel are men and stones .

(Part 28, Surah At-Tahrim, verse 6)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated regarding the abovementioned verse: (Protect yourselves and your family members from the Hellfire) by obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, carrying out acts of worship, refraining from sins, guiding your family members towards righteousness and preventing them from evils and teaching them knowledge and etiquettes.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ كُلُّكُمۡ رَاعٍ وَّكُلُّكُمۡ مَسۡئُوۡلٌ عَنۡ رَعِيَّتِه ’ All of you are shepherds and rulers of your family members and on the Day of Judgement, rulers will be held accountable for his flock.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 309, Hadees 893)

According to this Hadees, the commentators of Sahih Bukhari, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Sharif-ul-Haq Amjadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: It means that those who are guarded by someone. For instance, people are guarded by kings and rulers, children by parents, students by teachers, religious disciples by their Spiritual Guide. Similarly it is Wajib for the wife, children or servants to look after wealth which is entrusted to them. Do remember, ‘guarding or watching’ also means that those people should not indulge in sinful activities.’ (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 530)

Dear Islamic brothers! Through the abovementioned verse, Hadees and its commentary, we have come to know that we should also bring up our offspring in the best manner, our pious predecessors would bring up their offspring in the best way since childhood. Shaykh Muhammad Bin Quid Alawani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that His Majesty Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When I was a young boy, I happened to visit a jungle on the day of ‘Arafah and I was walking behind a bull. The bull looked at me and said, ‘ يَا عَبۡدَ الۡقَادِرِ مَا لِهٰذَا خُلِقَتَ ’ O ‘Abdul Qaadir! You are not created for this . Surprized, I returned home, went up onto the roof and saw people standing in the plains of ‘Arafah, then I asked my mother to dedicate me in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and give me permission to go to Baghdad in order to acquire knowledge . Mother

inquired the reason, I mentioned the incident of the bull and her eyes filled with tears and she brought to me the 80 dinars that my father had left as an inheritance with her.

I took 40 dinar and left 40 for my brother Sayyid Abu Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ; my mother sewed the 40 dinars into my garment giving me the permission to go to Baghdad. She insisted that I must always speak the truth under any circumstances. She bid me farewell with these words, ‘I separate you for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and now I would see you on the Day of Judgement.’

(Bahjah-tul-Asraar, pp. 167)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! The blessed mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه allowed her beloved son to travel by all means in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and set a supreme example by advising him to speak the truth always. One the other hand, in this advanced and modern era, the youth are lost from the straight path in pursuit of acquiring worldly success. But, alas, being drifted far away from Islamic teachings, we have forgotten that this world is mortal.

Therefore, it is necessary to find such people in this world for attaining salvation in the Hereafter and for becoming successful in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; who are models of good character and morals and we can feel pride after making such righteous personalities our ideals. The existing education system contains unveiling, co-education, the slogan of liberalism and other such evils bringing about more and more deterioration in our societies. Unlike Islamic teachings, the modern education system teaches ‘Hello’ instead of اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ, ‘Bye Bye’ when leaving; besides this, in the name of civilization and culture, vulgarity and obscenity is being promoted which is not hidden at all. Although, the foremost obligation of parents is that they not only adorn themselves with Islamic education but also cater for the resources of learning Ilm-e-Deen to their children.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! On 25 th Safar-ul-Muzaffar 1432 AH (January 31, 2011), another extremely important department, namely Dar-ul-Madinah was established. The formation of this significant department is aimed at educating the new generation of the Muslim Ummah in Islamic & worldly sciences along with an inspiration to lead their lives following Sunnah.

If we want to reform ourselves, then provide Madani training to our children and give them a mind-set of the contemplation of the Hereafter and associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Enrol your children in Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Dar-ul-Madinah for the best training for them. In order to reform and train yourselves, act upon the Madani In’amaat and travel with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool in Madani Qafilahs for three days every month. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the passion to reform ourselves and our family.

Sarkar-e-Baghdad, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I left for Baghdad from Jilaan along with a caravan. On the way to Baghdad, the caravan was attacked by sixty robbers who started snatching valuables from the travellers of the caravan. They plundered everyone but no robber asked me [Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] for anything because I seemed to have nothing. Then a robber asked carelessly while passing by me: ‘O boy! Do you also have anything?’ I bravely replied: ‘Yes! I have forty dinars.’ The robber considered it a joke and moved ahead. After a short while, another robber asked the same question while passing by me, and I gave the same reply. Both robbers informed their chief about me .

Calling me [Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ], the chief asked about the dinars. I gave the same reply as before. The chief searched me and really found forty dinars hidden in an inside pocket of my Qamees (shirt). All the people were amazed to see my truthfulness. When asked about the reason for telling the truth even in this situation, I replied, ‘Before I departed, my

mother had made me promise to tell the truth in every circumstance, and never to speak a lie. I cannot break the promise I have made to my mother.’ Listening to this, the chief of the robbers burst into tears and said, ‘Alas! You have sincerely fulfilled the promise you made to your mother but I have been going against the promises for years I have made to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . ’

Impressed by the sincerity and piety of this young traveller of the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the chief of the robbers repented of his sins. His fellow thieves also repented and said, ‘O chief! You were our leader when we were robbers, now you will also lead us to the path of righteousness.’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 167)

نگاہِ ولی میں وہ تاثیر دیکھی بدلتی ہزاروں کی تقدیر دیکھی

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! Just think for a while! What a high rank one can attain by fulfilling the promise he has made to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of his truthfulness, piety and sacrifices in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Ghaus-e-A’zam عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡاَکۡرَم became very famous and inspired millions of people to tread the right path who had deviated from it. Today, everyone acknowledges him as a great Wali and honours him from the bottom of their hearts.

1. Hold on to the truth, because truth leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Jannah; a man continues speaking the truth and striving for truth, until he is written before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as very truthful (Siddeeq). Beware of lying, for lying leads to sin, and sin leads to the fire; a man continues lying and striving for falsehood until he is written before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as a great liar. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

2. Whoever becomes habitual of speaking the truth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him pious.

3. He develops the habit of carrying out righteous deeds.

1. By the blessing of (truthfulness), he will remain righteous until he dies.

2. He will remain protected from evils

3. Whoever becomes truthful in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will have a good end.

4. He remains protected from all kinds of torments.

5. He obtains all kinds of rewards.

6. (People of the) world call him truthful and believe him to be righteous.

7. He has respect and reverence in the hearts of the people.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 06, pp. 452)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

v Our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was incredibly virtuous and belonged to a righteous family.

v The blessed father of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a man of abstinence and self-restraint who struggled hard against his Nafs, remained deeply engaged in worship and devotion, invited others towards righteousness and prevented them from evils. Therefore, we should also call others towards righteousness as much possible as we can.

v The blessed mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also a symbol of modesty, piety and righteousness. She imparted the knowledge of truth to Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and devoted her son for acquiring the knowledge of Deen in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should also struggle to train our children according to the Sunnah and provide them knowledge of Deen.

Our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by the virtue of the excellent training provided to him by his blessed parents made him the shining star of sainthood. It is learnt from this that it is necessary that righteous children come from virtuous parents. Therefore, we should not only engage ourselves in righteous deeds but also cater for excellent training to our children.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is continuously striving to call towards righteousness. If we want to awaken the passion of calling towards righteousness and want to train ourselves with valuable guidance then we should take part in the 12 Zayli Madani works with enthusiasm for refraining from sins and propagating the calling towards righteousness. One of the Zayli Madani works is also Madani In’amaat. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would not only take self-accountability but would also persuade others as Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘O people, take accountability of your deeds before Doomsday occurs and you are held accountable for them.’

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 56)

In this sinful era, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has provided a method for performing good deeds in the form of a questionnaire called ‘Madani In’amaat’, a comprehensive blend of Shari’ah and Tareeqah. There are 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers, 63 for Islamic sisters, 92 for male Islamic students, 83 for female Islamic students, 40 for Madani children. Similarly, a special Madani In’amaat has also been formed for special Islamic brothers (i.e. blind, mute and deaf) and for prisoners. Madani In’amaat booklets can be obtained from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. After going through them thoroughly, you will become aware that it is a systematic method of self-accountability. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, hurdles in the path of becoming pious and avoiding sins are removed by virtue of acting upon the Madani In’amaat.

Let me now tell you a Madani parable for encouragement:

A summary of what an Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) has related is as follows: Drowned in the sea of sins, I was wasting the ‘precious diamonds’ of my life in heedlessness. Chatting with my friends till late at night was my pastime. On 18 Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 1429 AH, 19 September 2008, we were having a get-together, gossiping and laughing as usual. Meanwhile, a lover of the Beloved Rasool who was affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami came and sat with us, greeting us with Salam. His arrival brought some seriousness in our gathering. He then presented us with very pleasant Madani pearls. We were all engrossed and enchanted by the way he guided us and by the words he used. After a while, he intended to leave but we requested: ‘Brother! Please sit with us for a little while and enlighten us about good things.’ Enthusiastic about conveying the call to righteousness, he accepted our request.

During the conversation, the topics of pondering over one’s afterlife and reforming the Ummah also came under discussion. The individual efforts made by this lover of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a very profound impact on our hearts. The next night, we were once again sitting together, waiting for him. As expected, he came and invited us to go to Faizan-e-Madinah - the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami. Impressed by his character and manners, I could not decline his invitation, reaching the sacred atmosphere of Faizan-e-Madinah with him. The Madani environment that instils fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love for Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Muslims caused a Madani revolution in my heart as well. Thus, by the blessings of the individual efforts made by that lover of the Beloved Rasool, I was blessed with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Madani pearls of clipping the nails 1. It is Mustahab [preferable] to clip the nails on a Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668) The great scholar of Fiqh, Shaykh Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘It is narrated that whosoever clips his/her nails on a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days in total. In one narration, it is said that whosoever clips their nails on a Friday, [for that person] mercy will arrive and his sins will go [i.e., be forgiven].’ (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, pp.9, vol. 668, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 225-226) 2. The following is a summary of the prescribed method of cutting the fingernails as narrated in authentic books: begin with the index finger of the right hand and work your way right towards the pinkie (smallest finger). Now, beginning with the pinkie (small finger) of the left hand, work your way towards the left thumb. At the end, clip the nails of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 193, vol. 1) 3. There is no prescribed order of clipping the toe nails. It would be better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot working your way left to the big toe, then cut the big toenail of the left foot working your way left to your little toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 193, vol. 1) 4. It is Makruh [disliked] to clip the nails whilst in the state of Janaabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory on one. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5) 5. It is Makruh [disliked] to bite the nails with one’s teeth; there is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5) 6. Bury the nails after clipping them; they can also be thrown away. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

1. It is Mustahab [preferable] to clip the nails on a Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

The great scholar of Fiqh, Shaykh Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘It is narrated that whosoever clips his/her nails on a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days in total. In one narration, it is said that whosoever clips their nails on a Friday, [for that person] mercy will arrive and his sins will go [i.e., be forgiven].’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, pp.9, vol. 668, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 225-226)

2. The following is a summary of the prescribed method of cutting the fingernails as narrated in authentic books: begin with the index finger of the right hand and work your way right towards the pinkie (smallest finger). Now, beginning with the pinkie (small finger) of the left hand, work your way towards the left thumb. At the end, clip the nails of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 193, vol. 1)

3. There is no prescribed order of clipping the toe nails. It would be better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot working your way left to the big toe, then cut the big toenail of the left foot working your way left to your little toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 193, vol. 1)

4. It is Makruh [disliked] to clip the nails whilst in the state of Janaabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory on one.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

5. It is Makruh [disliked] to bite the nails with one’s teeth; there is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

6. Bury the nails after clipping them; they can also be thrown away.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

