اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

The Blessed Life of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Day of Judgement, the person who will attain salvation early from its terror and reckoning will be the one amongst you who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’ (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

پڑھتا رہوں کَثرت سے دُرُود اُن پہ سَدا میں

اور ذِکر کا بھی شَوق پئے غَوث و رَضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! The pious and blessed individuals sent by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the guidance of people are called ‘Ambiya’. Blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام are those special people to whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends revelations. Revelation is sometimes sent through angels and sometimes without any source. Blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام are free from sins and their habits are pure. Their blessed names, lineage, bodies, sayings, acts, habits and manners are the best and are free from hatred. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses them with perfect wisdom. Even the wisest person of the world cannot become equal to the millionth part of their level of wisdom. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ endows them with knowledge of Ghayb (unseen). They keep themselves busy in obedience and worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night, convey the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to His bondmen and guide them to His path.

Amongst the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام those who bring new Shari’ah are called Rasool. There are differences in the ranks of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . The ranks of some are superior to others. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم holds the highest rank. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the last Nabi. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has ended the chain of Prophethood on the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . No one can be given Nubuwwah after the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The person who considers it permissible that Nubuwwah can be given to an individual even after the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is out of folds of Islam. (Kitab-ul-‘Aqaaid, pp. 15-17)

Let’s have the privilege of listening to some faith-refreshing events and miracles of the blessed life of a very respected and blessed Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

Introduction to Sayyiduna ‘Isa

The blessed name of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is ‘Isa’ [ عیسٰی ] and his family name is Ibn Maryam. (Tazkira-tul-Ambiya, pp. 658) ‘Kalimatullah’, ‘Maseeh’, ‘Wajeeh’, Muqarrab and Saalih are his titles (Ibid, pp. 658)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned the glory and dignity of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in an extremely splendid manner. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned his arrival near the Judgement Day and

the signs of his arrival. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for attaining blessings:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I am the Du’a of my father, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and at the end, Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ibn Maryam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the one who gave glad tidings of my arrival. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 11, 182, Hadees 31886)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There is no Nabi between me and Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ; he will descend (from Heavens near the Judgement Day); when you see him, you will recognize him; his complexion will be fair, height will be medium; he will be wearing 2 light yellow robes; his hair will be dry, but it will seem as though drops of water are dripping down his head; he will kill the swine. A ll the religions except Islam will be eliminated by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his age. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will kill Dajjaal. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will pass away after living on the earth for 40 years and Muslims will offer his funeral Salah. (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 158, Hadees 4324)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will send Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will descend on the eastern white minaret of Jaami’ Masjid, Damascus wearing two light yellow robes colour and will be resting his hands on the arms of two angels. When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will lower his head, the drops of water will be dripping and when he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will raise his head, white silver beads resembling pearls will be dropping off. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1201, Hadees 7373)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another bright aspect of Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah’s blessed life is that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was a man of simplicity and was very humble. If he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had wanted, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could have spent his life with great splendour, accumulated heaps of wealth, worn very expensive dress, eaten delicious meals and lived in a grand palace, but may we be sacrificed for his simplicity, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام rejected the comfort and luxuries of this mortal world

and instead of living life with great splendour, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام always preferred to live humble life and also persuaded others to do so.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa’s simplicity and pieces of advice

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Sulaym رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to his Hawaris (companions) wearing a woollen robe with an ordinary Shalwar (loose trousers); he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was barefooted and his head was uncovered. Due to being hungry, his complexion had changed; his lips had become absolutely dry due to the intensity of the thirst. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said Salam to his Hawaris (companions) and said: O Bani Israel! If I want, the world with all its bounties will come under my feet by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but I do not like it. O Bani Israel! Always consider the world inferior; do not give it any respect, it will itself turn soft for you. Condemn the world, the Hereafter will be beautified for you; never ever start respecting and revering the world and ignore the Hereafter. Undoubtedly, the world is not worthy of any respect. Everyday this world brings some sort of new evil or harm to you; therefore stay safe from its deception.

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then said: O people! Do you know where my home is? The people replied: O the Nabi عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم! Where is your home? He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied: Masajid are my residence; hunger satisfies my appetite; my feet are my transport; the shining moon at night is my candle (guide); offering Salah in very cold nights is my most favourite act; my food is dry leaves etc., the grass and plants of the earth are like fruits for me; they (grass and plants) provide food to animals and I also eat the same vegetables and plants; my dress is wool; fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is my sign and poor people are my dearest friends. I spend my morning without having any worldly belongings and in the same state I spend my evening that I have no worldly belongings, even then I do not care for it that so-and-so is very rich. In this state, I feel myself very fortunate and wealthy (i.e. even under these circumstances, I am satisfied with the Will of my Lord).

It is also said about him that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent 10 years of his life in only one woollen Jubbah. When the robe got ripped from somewhere, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would tie it with a thread or patch it up. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 118)

رہُوں مَست و بے خُود میں تیری وِلا میں

پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یا الٰہی

مِرے دِل سے دُنیا کی چاہت مِٹا کر

کر اُلفت میں اپنی فَنَا یا الٰہی

سُـبْحٰـنَ الله عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed how simple Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was! He was not only simple, but also the one who would bear hunger and thirst and adopt piety and contentment; he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام liked to offer Salah in extremely cold nights; he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the one who would weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, who would love the poor and remain detached from the rich. Now keeping in mind his blessed life let’s do Fikr-e-Madinah i.e. make our own accountability. Do we like simplicity? Do we offer Salahs in hot and cold weather? Have we ever wept out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Do we also love the poor and the destitute? Do we also run away from the love of this world? Do we also have the passion for pondering over the Hereafter? May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to do Fikr-e-Madinah in this manner and give us the ability to listen to the Zikr of pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs regularly so that we also become practising by virtue of its blessings.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was a highly ranked Saint. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also blessed her with many attributes. Let’s listen to the brief introduction of this great mother.

Introduction to the blessed mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa

The name of Sayyiduna ‘Isa’s mother is Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . The meaning of ‘Maryam’ is a worshipper and servant. (Tafseer Baghawi, vol. 1, pp. 227)

Her father’s name was ‘Imran and mother’s name was Hannah رَضِیَ اللهتَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 65)

Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a Saint by birth. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 10, pp. 605)

The name of no other woman except Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has been mentioned in the Holy Quran. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 10, pp. 231)

Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the leader of the women in Paradise. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Four women are the leaders of Heavenly women: (1) Maryam (2) Fatimah (3) Khadijah (4) Aasiyah (رَضِىَ اللهتَعَالٰی عَـنْهُـنَّ اَجۡمَعِیۡن). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 12, pp. 65, Hadees 34401)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Even with the birth of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a virgin; she remained as a virgin and will be raised as a virgin and she will enter Jannat-un-Na’eem as a virgin and then she will be privileged to have her Nikah done with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 26, pp. 460)

الله کرم اِتنا گُنَہ گار پہ فرما

جنّت میں پڑوسی مِرے آقا کا بنادے

سُـبْحٰـنَ الله عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! How courageous and great was the respected mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that her virtues are stated in blessed Ahadees and she will also be privileged to become the wife of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-un-Na’eem. So exalted and great is her rank that when Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was in her blessed womb, miracles began to occur from her blessed body.

Tree of Maryam and stream of Jibra`eel

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا without the father. When the time of birth approached, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی

عَنْهَا went far from people and sat alone beneath a dry date tree. Under the very same tree, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born. As Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to unmarried Maryam without the father, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was therefore very worried and anxious and was not returning to her village due to the fear of being slandered and taunted. She was sitting in such a deserted place under a dry date tree where there was nothing to drink and eat. Suddenly, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام descended and made a stream of water emerge by hitting his heels on the ground. All of a sudden, the dry date tree became green and produced ripe fruit. Then Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spoke to Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا after calling her in the following manner:

فَنَادٰىهَا مِنْ تَحْتِهَاۤ اَلَّا تَحْزَنِیْ قَدْ جَعَلَ رَبُّكِ تَحْتَكِ سَرِیًّا(۲۴) وَ هُزِّیْۤ اِلَیْكِ بِجِذْعِ النَّخْلَةِ تُسٰقِطْ عَلَیْكِ رُطَبًا جَنِیًّا٘(۲۵) فَكُلِیْ وَ اشْرَبِیْ وَ قَرِّیْ عَیْنًاۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: (The angel) therefore called her from below her, ‘Do not grieve – your Lord has caused a river to flow below you. And shake the trunk of the palm-tree towards you – ripe fresh dates will fall upon you. [1] Therefore eat and drink and cool your eyes’. (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 24, 25, 26)

Dear Islamic brothers! Production of fruit from a dry tree and the sudden emergence of a stream are undoubtedly the miracles of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . When Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a young child and used to worship in the Mihrab (arch) of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, she would get out-of-season fruits without any effort. However, after the birth of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, she did receive ripened dates, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commanded her to shake the tree. It has become obvious that as long as a person doesn’t have any children, he is blessed with sustenance without any effort and he gets his sustenance from somewhere, but when a person is blessed with children, it becomes compulsory for him to struggle for his livelihood. This is evident

from Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا that as long as she had no child, she was blessed with the fruits in her arch (Mihrab) of worship without any efforts. However, when her child Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commanded her to shake the date tree and put efforts in order to get the dates. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 168)

اب تک اَولاد سے جو ہیں مَحروم اُن کی بھر گود اے رَبِّ قَیُّوم

سب کو رَحمت کی اپنی عطا کی میرے مَولٰی تُو خَیرَات دیدے

Dear Islamic brothers! The parable we have just heard has been stated from the book, ‘ Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition, this book also contains many interesting Quranic events and other parables comprising Madani pearls of advice and admonition. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to booklet ‘Baytay ko Naseehat’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to get regular in offering Salah and paying Zakah, behaving well with parents and to develop the enthusiasm of pondering over the matters of Hereafter, the study of booklet ‘Baytay ko Naseehat’ will اِنْ شَــآءَالله عَزَّوَجَلَّ be beneficial. This booklet is an Urdu translation of an Arabic book written by Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This booklet contains the aim of study and acquiring knowledge, importance and need of Murshid (spiritual leader), 26 characteristics of a perfect Murshid, showing-off and its cure, the blessings of acting upon acquired knowledge and various other pieces of advice are the part of this booklet. Please buy this booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

Do read it yourself and persuade others to read also. This booklet can be read online, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, every attribute of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام is marvellous; Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses them with such marvels and miracles that our intellects cannot comprehend them. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bestowed abundant miracles upon His Beloved Nabi, Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام started revealing the signs of Prophethood from his childhood. Let’s listen to a wonderful parable of the childhood of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and refresh our faith.

Spoke just after birth!

When Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا returned to the village of Bani Israel with Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in her lap, the people blamed her and started saying, ‘O Maryam! You have committed a very shameful act, though there was no character defect in your father, and neither your mother ever committed adultery. How have you given birth to a baby boy without a husband?’ When the people crossed the limits of taunting, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا told people to get the answers from the child. The people said, ‘How can we converse with this child? He is still a baby’. Upon hearing these comments from the people, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام started delivering a speech which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran in the following words:

قَالَ اِنِّیْ عَبْدُ الله ﳴ اٰتٰىنِیَ الْكِتٰبَ وَ جَعَلَنِیْ نَبِیًّاۙ(۳۰) وَّ جَعَلَنِیْ مُبٰرَكًا اَیْنَ مَا كُنْتُ۪-وَ اَوْصٰنِیْ بِالصَّلٰوةِ وَ الزَّكٰوةِ مَا دُمْتُ حَیًّاﳚ(۳۱) وَّ بَرًّۢا بِوَالِدَتِیْ٘-وَ لَمْ یَجْعَلْنِیْ جَبَّارًا شَقِیًّا(۳۲) وَ السَّلٰمُ عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ وُلِدْتُّ وَ یَوْمَ اَمُوْتُ وَ یَوْمَ اُبْعَثُ حَیًّا(۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The child proclaimed, ‘I am Allah’s bondman; He has given me the Book and made me the communicator of the unseen (a Nabi). And He has made me blessed wherever I be; and ordained upon me prayer and poor due, as long as I live. And has made me dutiful to my mother

and not made me vigorous, ill-fated. And peace is upon me the day I was born, and on the day I shall taste death, and on the day I will be raised alive’.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 30-33)

Dear Islamic brothers! This is the miracle of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that just after his birth, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام eloquently delivered such a comprehensive speech. In this speech, first of all, he declared himself a bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that no one may call him god or the son of god because people were going to slander him in future, and this slander was, in fact, an accusation against Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, it was the natural aspect of his Prophethood to firstly refute the false accusation that was going to be made towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before refuting the blame on his mother. اللهاَكۡبَرُ! This is true that whosoever He عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses with Nubuwwah, certainly his birth is extremely blessed and the elevated signs of his Nubuwwah start to appear from his very childhood. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 170)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the speech of Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام we have also attained this Madani pearl that offering Salah, paying Zakah and treating the mother well have been very old acts of worship and the favourite practice of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these are the beautiful acts of worship which even blessed Shari’ah has also commanded us to perform, but unfortunately, now Masajid are becoming empty and the places of evil are becoming crowded, people are acting evasively in the matters of paying Zakah; the people who deserve Zakah have hard time; the mother beneath whose feet lies Paradise is badly treated. What has happened to Muslims? Now when will our Masajid be filled with Salah-offering people? Which day will the number of Salah-offering people increase? How long shall we be lazy in paying Zakah? How long will it continue like this?

نماز و روزہ و حج و زکوٰۃ کی تَوفِیق

عطا ہو اُمّتِ مَحبوب کو سَدا یا ربّ

Dear Islamic brothers! Different miracles, from time to time, continued to occur from Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, but there were some miracles which became very famous. Let’s listen to some details of those miracles.

1. Creating birds

When Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام declared his Nubuwwah and performed miracles, people requested him to create a bat. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a bat from clay and then blew into it and it started flying. (Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 251)

A bat is the bird among all the birds that is very strange and proves the Divine authority more than other animals because it flies without any wings, has teeth, laughs and gives birth, though birds, which can fly, do not have these characteristics. (Tafseer Jamal, vol. 1, pp. 418)

2. Curing lepers

Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would cure the patients whose leprosy had spread in the body and doctors had failed to treat it. Since the practice of medicine was at its peak in the age of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and the Doctors had great expertise in regard to treatment, they were shown such miracles so that it could be understood that curing the disease of the patient, whose cure was not possible in medical science, was a miracle and the proof of Nubuwwah. Sayyiduna Wahb Bin Munabbih رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said that a large number of patients used to come to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ; those who could walk, would come to him and those who could not walk, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would go to them himself to cure them of their diseases by making Du’a for them on the condition that they would believe in his Risalat.

(Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 251)

3. Raising the dead

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِیَ اللهتَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام raised four people from the dead:

1. The first one was ‘Aazar who loved Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام sincerely; when his condition got worse, his sister informed him, but at that time he was at a distance of three days’ journey from Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام reached there in three days, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام learnt that he had passed away three days before. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said to his sister: Take me to his grave. She took him to his grave. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to which ‘Aazar rose from the dead and got out of the grave. He lived for ages and also became a father of many children.

The second was the son of an old lady whose funeral was being taken in front of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a for him by virtue of which he was raised from the dead and then came down the shoulders of the people, wore his clothes and returned home. He continued to live and became a father of children as well.

The third was a girl who died in the evening and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ raised her from the dead by virtue of the Du’a of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

The fourth one was Sayyiduna Saam Bin Nuh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who had died thousands of years ago. People desired Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to raise him from the dead. Upon locating the place he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام reached the grave and made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Saam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard that someone was saying: ‘ اَجِبْ رُوْحَ اللہ ’, (listen to Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام). Hearing this he stood up terrified and thought that the Judgement Day had begun; due to its terror the half of the hair of his head turned white and then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه believed in Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then requested Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام not to let him experience the pains of death again. Therefore he passed away instantly. (Tafseer Jamal, vol. 1, pp. 419)

4. Giving news of Ghayb

When Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام cured the sick and raised the deceased, some people said that it was the magic and asked him to show some other miracles. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied: I inform you about whatever you eat and save. So Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام also performed this miracle that he would tell a person what he had eaten a day before, what he will eat today and what would he be preparing for the next time. Many children would gather around him; he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would tell them that such-and-such food has been at their

homes; their family members have eaten such-and-such food and such-and-such food has been left for them. When the children would go back to their homes, they would ask their family members for the same item. The family members would give children the same item and asked how they knew about it. The children would reply: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام told them, so people stopped their children from going to him and said that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was a magician. (Tafseer Qurtubi, pp. 49-64))

Holiday I’tikaf [Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf] — One of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with countless powers, therefore, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would create birds, raise the dead and cure the patients of leprosy. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام even would tell the news of Ghayb. Regrettably! Due to having bad company a person, sometimes, falls prey to satanic whispers in regard to the powers of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and pious saints and destroys himself by denying the miracles of Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and Saints. Therefore, always avoid bad company and have only good company. اِنْ شَــآءَالله عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Satan will become unsuccessful.

Remember! One of the best means of attaining good company is also to associate yourself with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Please remain associated with this Madani environment all the time and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah; one of the 12 Madani activities is ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’.

On a weekend or holiday, devotees of Rasool go to areas of the city which are weaker in religious activities, surrounding villages and suburbs to fill the Masajid with Salah-offering people and also present the call towards righteousness to the local devotees of Rasool to gain and impart Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf is the best source of teaching Sunnahs, manners and delivering Dars, etc., to Islamic brothers. By virtue of the blessings of Yaum-e- Ta’teel I’tikaf Masajid are filled with Salah-offering people. By virtue of Yaum-e- Ta’teel I’tikaf every moment that is spent in the Masjid will be considered as worship. By virtue of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf one

attains the excellence of loving Masjid and spending more and more time in it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, spending more time in Masjid has great excellence:

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see someone coming and going to Masjid abundantly, give evidence of his faith because in Ayah 18 of Surah At-Taubah part 10, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ الله مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِ الله وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the Masajid of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish Salah and pay the obligatory charity. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 18, Hadees 2626)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

I was fond of flying kites

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) gave the following account: Unfortunately, I spent my past life in sins. I used to fly kites and play computer games. I would stick my nose into everyone’s business, argue with people unnecessarily and would pick fights without any reason.

Luckily, due to the individual efforts of an Islamic brother I performed I’tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan in a Masjid in my area. I saw some extremely pleasant dreams and attained immense peace of mind. I was blessed with performing I’tikaf for another two years. Making individual effort, once the Muazzin of the Masjid convinced me to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in its global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah. When we reached Faizan-e-Madinah, a Muballigh (Preacher) was delivering a speech. He was dressed in white clothes with a brown shawl over his shoulders and a green turban on his head. He also had a fist-length beard. I had never seen such a refulgent & luminous face before.

The attraction and refulgence of the Muballigh’s face captured my heart and I therefore joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. For the past two years I have been performing I’tikaf in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah Karachi (Bab-ul-Madinah). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have also grown my beard according to the Sunnah.

بگڑے اَخلاق سارے سَنوَر جائیں گے مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

جامِ عشقِ مُحمد بھی ہاتھ آئے گا مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the brightest aspects of the blessed life of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was that he did not find faults in others like we do. We only see faults and defects in living or non-living things. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the great Nabi who would always protect his tongue even from speaking ill against animals.

Protect yourself from even speaking ill of a dead dog

In his book, ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society], on page 275, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام once passed by a dead dog, his companions said: How foul smelling is this dead dog! Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: How white are its teeth! It means Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام even forbade them from committing backbiting against a dead dog and cautioned them to only mention the good quality of even the animals. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 166)

حُسنِ اَخلاق مِلے بِھیک میں اِخلاص مِلے

اِک بِھکاری ہے کھڑا آپ کے دَربار کے پاس

Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! You just learnt about the beautiful character of Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that he would protect himself from the mistreatment of not just humans but also animals. Just ponder! How great would be the blessed manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with whom many non-Muslims got impressed and embraced Islam! Only if we could also succeed in having good manners and protecting ourselves from bad manners for the sake of these blessed personalities!

One of the ways to acquire good manners is to associate yourself with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool that is filled with the blessings of Ambiya and Saints. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments throughout the world. One of them is ‘Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah’, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه initiated Maktaba-tul-Madinah in 1986 (1406H) and first of all it released, the audio cassettes of speeches. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the progress which Maktaba-tul-Madinah has made in this short period of time is exemplary. In this short period of time, not only have Sunnah-inspiring speeches and memory cards been supplied throughout the world, but also hundreds of thousands of books of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah have been published and made available to the people across the globe. These books are propagating the Madani pearls of Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ till date, approx. 45 sub-departments of Maktaba-tul-Madinah have been established.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تُجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تِری دُھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Signs of the Judgement Day

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! At this time, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is alive in the Heavens and will arrive into this world near the Judgement Day as an Ummati (follower) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will come into my Ummah as a caliph. (Madarik, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 55, pp. 163) Before the arrival of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام some signs of the Judgement Day will also appear.

‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Some signs will appear before the world ends; knowledge will disappear; ignorance will be in abundance; fornication will be in excess; to remain steadfast on religion will be as difficult as holding a burning coal in the fist; paying Zakah will be difficult for people because they will consider it a fine. A husband will obey his wife and disobey his parents. Songs and music will be in abundance; Dajjaal will appear and patrol the whole earth except Haramayn Tayyibayn in 40 days. His Fitnah (conflict) will be very severe; he will claim to be god. He will put the one, who believes in him, in his paradise and will make the one, who denies, enter in Hell. He will show many illusions and in reality all these will be magic which will have nothing to do with the reality. Then Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will descend from the sky to the eastern Minaret of Jaami’ Masjid, Damascus. Accursed Dajjaal will start to melt by the pleasant aroma of Sayyiduna ‘Isa’s breath as salt dissolves in water. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will stab him with a spear on his back due to which he will die. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 116-122)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Sunnah-inspiring speech, we have heard:

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is alive and will arrive near the Judgement Day.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was simple, pious and content.

The mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the leader of heavenly women.

The mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will be privileged to become the wife of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-un-Na’eem.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spoke as he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born and gave evidence for the piety of his mother.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام created birds, raised the dead and cured the patients of Vitiligo.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would use good words even when talking about animals.

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would always protect his tongue from speaking ill.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of conversation

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالله عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

2. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a newborn baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

3. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

4. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

5. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

6. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) and Heaven is Haram on the one engaged in indecent speech. (Kitab-us-Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Raqm 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللهتَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ اللهالۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ اللهتَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا الله الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ الله رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

