اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

The Powers of the Blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ اِنَّ الدُّعَاءَ مَوْقُوْفٌ بَیْنَ السَّمَاءِ وَالْاَرْضِ لَا یَصْعَدُ مِنْہُ شَیْئٌ حَتّٰی تُصَلِّیَ عَلٰی نَبِیِّکَ ’ ‘Supplication remains suspended between the Heavens and the earth and nothing from it moves upwards until

you recite Salat upon the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 2, pp. 28, Hadees 486)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are those chosen people of Allah Almighty who attained an acclaimed rank in the court of Allah Almighty by acting upon the commands of Allah Almighty throughout their lives. As a reward for their righteous deeds, Allah Almighty blessed them with great glory and grandeur by blessing them with numerous powers through His grace and mercy. In this weekly Ijtima’ of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to the Madani pearls regarding what powers Allah Almighty blessed His blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی with. First of all, let’s listen to a saintly miracle of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Soil turned into gold

Once, a woman came in the court of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said: ‘Your Highness! I have three young daughters whom I need to get married. Please help me.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to his servants, ‘Whatever is available in Dargah, give it to the woman.’ The servants humbly said, ‘Your Highness! Nothing is left over today.’ Listening to it, the woman started crying saying that I am helpless and came to you with a lot of hope. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Go and bring a clod of clay from outside.’ She brought the clod of clay from outside. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loudly recited Surah Al-Ikhlas and blew [performed Dam ] over it. Upon this, the clay clod turned into gold. Seeing this, everyone was stunned. The woman brought the gold home.

She attained purity and also blew on a clay clod after reciting Surah Al-Ikhlas but it did not turn into gold. Eventually, she kept performing this action for 3 days but without any luck. Helpless, she came in the court of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said, ‘Your Highness! I too recited Surah Al-Ikhlas but the soil did not turn into gold.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘You performed the same very action that I performed, but you do not possess the same very tongue as I do.’ (Allah kay Safeer, pp. 298; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this narration, we found out that the chosen people of Allah Almighty fulfil the needs of distressed, destitute and needy people by helping them out. In case they would not have anything to give to a needy person, even then they would not let them go empty handed and fulfil their need by turning clay into gold by using their powers. We also came to know that the chosen people of Allah Almighty have a unique impact on what they utter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Without the permission of Allah Almighty, no one can even give a tiny particle to anybody. Chosen people of Allah Almighty fulfil the needs of needy people, help the afflicted ones, and cure the ill through the powers given to them by Allah Almighty. Not only this, blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی even resurrect the dead with the power granted to them by Allah Almighty.

Elephant resurrected

Once, Sayyidi Ahmad Jaam Zindah Peel رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was going somewhere and saw a crowd of people on the way. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to them and asked, ‘What happened?’ People humbly said, ‘Elephant has died.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Its trunk is fine, eyes are fine, hands are fine and so are the feet.’ In short, he mentioned all the limbs to be fine and then said, how has it died? As soon as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said this, the elephant resurrected straightaway. Since that day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became famous with the title of “Zindah Peel” (i.e. the one who resurrects elephant). (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 449; summarised)

Can any person resurrect a dead?

Dear Islamic brothers! No doubt, life and death are under the authority of Allah Almighty. However, it is not difficult at all for Him to bless any of His chosen people with the power of resurrecting a dead. Moreover, acknowledging somebody as possessing the power of resurrecting a dead with the bestowal of Allah Almighty does not have any negative impact on

our Iman [faith]. Anyhow, if someone carries the belief that Allah Almighty has not given the authority of curing the ill or resurrecting the dead to any of His Nabi or Wali, then having such belief is completely contradictory to the Ayah of the Holy Quran. Therefore, saying of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has been clearly mentioned in part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah no. 49:

اَنِّیْۤ اَخْلُقُ لَكُمْ مِّنَ الطِّیْنِ كَهَیْــٴَـةِ الطَّیْرِ فَاَنْفُخُ فِیْهِ فَیَكُوْنُ طَیْرًۢا بِاِذْنِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ اُبْرِئُ الْاَكْمَهَ وَ الْاَبْرَصَ وَ اُحْیِ الْمَوْتٰى بِاِذْنِ اللّٰهِۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I mould for you from clay, a birdlike figure, and I blow onto it and it immediately becomes a (living) bird, by the permission of Allah. And I heal him, who was born blind, and the leper, and I give life to the dead, by the permission of Allah.

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is clearly announcing that I make a bird out of clay and blow soul into it with the bestowal of Allah Almighty. I give eyes to the innate blind and cure the lepers (i.e. patients having white patches), to the extent that I even resurrect the dead. With the blessings of Ambiya-e-Kiraam عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are also given powers and they also end up performing such actions that stun one’s intellect.

The minister of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyiduna Asif Bin Barkhiya رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, brought the throne of Bilqees from Yemen in the court of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام before the blink of an eye using the power bestowed to him by Allah Almighty. This has been mentioned in the Holy Quran in the following words. Therefore, it is stated in part 19, Surah An-Naml, Ayah no. 40:

اَنَا اٰتِیْكَ بِهٖ قَبْلَ اَنْ یَّرْتَدَّ اِلَیْكَ طَرْفُكَؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘I will present it in your majesty’s court before the blink of an eye .’

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that a Waliyyullah brought an eighty yards long and forty yards wide throne adorned with jewels in the court of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام from Yemen within a very short span of time by the bestowal of the powers from Allah Almighty.

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Allah Almighty has given immense powers to the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Out of them, those who are Ashaab-e-Khidmat (a type of Awliya), they are given authority over everything. These sacred personages are the true Naaib (deputy) of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They are given powers due to being the Naaib (deputy) of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, hidden sciences are revealed upon them. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 267)

The special grace of Allah Almighty is showered upon the chosen people of Allah Almighty. Help is bestowed by Allah Almighty in their tasks. May Allah Almighty keep us respectful towards the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and protect us from insolence. Aameen!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Who is called a Waliyyullah?

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening further parables regarding the powers of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, let’s first listen to the definition of a Wali.

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Waliyyullah is the one who attains the closeness to Allah Almighty through performing Faraaid [obligatory actions]. He remains busy in the obedience to Allah Almighty and his heart remains engrossed with the cognition of the luminosity of Allah Almighty’s majesty. Whenever he sees, he sees the proofs of the divine power of Allah Almighty. Whenever he listens, he only listens to the Ayahs of Allah Almighty. Whenever he speaks, he does so only with the praise of Allah Almighty. Whenever he makes a movement, he does so in the obedience to Allah Almighty and whenever he makes an effort for anything, he does so for only such thing that is a means of the closeness of Allah Almighty. He does not get

tired of the Zikr of Allah Almighty and does not look at anyone else except Allah Almighty from the eye of his heart. This is the trait of Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . When a person reaches this stage, then Allah Almighty is his helper.

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 344)

Let’s now listen to the definition of Karamah (saintly miracle) as well.

Definition of Karamah (saintly miracle)

While mentioning the definition of Karamah (saintly miracle), Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions in Bahar-e-Shari’at: Any such action performed by a Wali that is against the (عادت) norms is called Karamah (saintly miracle). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 58)

If such kind of things are performed by Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام before the declaration of Nubuwwah, then they are called “Irhaas”; if they are performed after the declaration of Nubuwwah, then they are called “Mu’jizah”; if such actions are performed by the common believers, then it is called “Ma’oonat”; and if a disbeliever performs any such thing according to his desire, then it is called “Istidraaj”. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 36)

An action against the norms refers to those matters that are not generally performed by every human being. For example, things like flying in the air, walking on water, etc.; as normally, a person can neither fly in the air nor can he walk on water. (Faizan Mazaraat-e-Awliya, pp. 46)

Command over water

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty blessed Awliya-e-Kiraam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی with the power of flying in the air. They can easily get to one place from another while flying in the air without wings. There are some such righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty too who even make seas and rivers obedient to themselves. Moreover, they can walk fearlessly over water the way they walk on land.

Crossed river without boat

It is stated in narrations that Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was with some Muslim companions and they needed to cross the river Tigris and they did not have boats at their disposal. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ commanded the Muslims to walk into the river. He himself led the way while reciting the following Du’a:

نَسْتَعِیْنُ بِاللہِ وَ نَتَوَکَّلُ عَلَیْہِ وَ حَسْبُنَا اللہُ وَنِعْمَ الْوَکِیْلُ وَ لَاحَوْلَ وَلَا قُوَّۃَ اِلَّا بِاللہِ الْعَلِیِّ الْعَظِیْمِ

(Translation: We seek help from Allah Almighty and rely only on Him. Allah Almighty is sufficient for us and how great He is Who mends our matters. And neither do we possess the power of refraining from sins nor do we have the power of performing righteousness, but from Allah Almighty, Who is the Greatest of all.)

People started walking on it without any hesitation while talking to each other. Horse riders rode over it on their horses, camel-riders on their camels, and those who were on foot walked over it on foot with their provisions the way caravans pass through the open fields. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, Juz: 2, pp. 341-342, Raqm. 522; summarised)

Reign over the skies too

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that the righteous people of Allah Almighty can walk on water and air with the bestowed powers of Allah Almighty. Moreover, they are such dignified personalities that their Du’as are not rejected. When they raise their hands and supplicate for rain in the merciful court of Allah, Allah Almighty sends down a heavy rain due to the blessings of their Du’as which quenches the thirst of the thirsty ones and makes crops and gardens flourish.

Pouring down of rain of mercy

It is stated that once, it completely stopped raining in Sehwan Shareef [Bab-ul-Islam Sindh, Pakistan] and its nearby vicinities, to the extent that no signs of any food were seen far and wide. Streams and wells dried out and

getting water became extremely difficult. After all, people of the area gathered and presented their plea in the court of Sayyiduna La’l [ لعل ] Shahbaz Qalander Sayyid Muhammad Usman Marvandi Kaazimi Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . While fulfilling the obligation of ordering good and forbidding evil, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘You all should make sincere repentance for sins in the court of Allah Almighty and make Du’a with me.’ People instantly sought forgiveness for their sins in the court of Allah Almighty and started repenting. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه raised his hands in the court of Allah Almighty and made Du’a for rain and prosperity.

It is said that Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had not even entered his chamber yet after making the Du’a and Allah Almighty accepted his Du’a and drops of mercy started pouring down. Out of the joy of the grace of Allah Almighty and the acceptance of the Du’a of Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, people cooked food and distributed among poor and destitute. Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arranged for an Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at after the ‘Isha Salah. People collectively performed the Zikr of Allah Almighty and recited Salat and Salam in abundance upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Shan-e-Qalander, pp. 311; summarised)

May the mercy of Allah Almighty be upon him and may we be forgiven without accountability for his sake!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable, we found out that whenever a calamity befalls, we shall go in the court of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty and request them to make Du’a, as the Du’as of the righteous people of Allah Almighty get accepted instantly in the court of Allah Almighty. We further came to know that we shall express joy in a permissible manner upon receiving the mercy of Allah Almighty. That’s why Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander ‘Usman Marvandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه paid gratitude to Allah Almighty by conducting an Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at.

Moreover, why shall it not be as the entire lives of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty are a practical display of the teachings of Quran and Sunnah? But alas! Majority of us are seen disobeying Allah Almighty on the occasions of happiness rather than following the path of the righteous predecessors. The extreme level of immodesty is displayed at such occasions where the rights of each other are violated. Some foolish people مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ arrange for music gatherings on such joyous occasions where boys and unveiled girls dance and sing all night long. In such a mixed environment, people fill their eyes with Haraam due to unlawful gazing.

Remember! Marriage and other occasions of joy are a great blessing of Allah Almighty. We shall know the right way of spending these moments. In order to pay gratitude over the bounty blessed by Allah Almighty, first of all, we shall endeavour to refrain from the disobedience of Allah Almighty in these joyous moments.

Sayyiduna Ziyad Bin ‘Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: One right of Allah Almighty upon the receiver of the blessing is that he should not perform disobedience using that blessing. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 19, pp. 191)

Below are few permissible ways of paying gratitude to Allah Almighty over receiving a Divine blessing:

1. Hamd [i.e. praise] of Allah Almighty should be done through the tongue.

2. One shall arrange for the recitation of the Holy Quran and Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at.

3. One shall give an abundance of Sadaqah [charity].

4. One shall strive to increase his righteous deeds by making good intentions.

5. In the joy of receiving a blessing, one shall perform the Sajdah of gratitude [Sajdah-e-Shukr]. As whenever our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would receive any happiness, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform the Sajdah of gratitude. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 163, Hadees 1394)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page no. 169 of his remarkable book ‘ Namaz kay Ahkam ’ [Laws of Salah]: It is Mustahab [preferable] to perform Sajdah-e-Shukr on getting any favour such as birth of a baby, attainment of wealth, turning up of a lost thing, curing of a patient, returning of a traveller and the like. Its method is exactly the same as that of Sajdah-e-Tilawat. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 136, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 2, pp. 720)

Similarly, it is an act of reward to perform Sajdah of gratitude upon receiving a good news or blessing. For example, one gets the visa of Madinah Munawwarah, one becomes successful in performing individual efforts on someone and he agrees to travel with the Sunnah-learning Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami, one beholds a Sunni [practicing] scholar, one has a blessed dream, an Islamic student succeeds in an exam or a calamity is removed or any enemy of Islam dies etc. (It is Mustahab [preferable] to perform the Sajdah of gratitude on all such occasions).

May Allah Almighty enable us to celebrate happy occasions within the boundaries of Shari’ah!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Imam Raazi and Shaytan

Dear Islamic brothers! Spending life while following in the footsteps of the righteous predecessors is not only a means of attaining numerous virtues in this world and Hereafter but being associated to them is also beneficial for us at the time of our death. As Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه states on page no. 13 of his booklet ‘ Satanic Whispers and Cures for Them ’ that when the dying moments of (Sayyiduna) Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived, Satan appeared. Satan tries very hard to make the dying person lose his faith because he knows that the dying person will never regain faith if he deviates from it at this time. Therefore, Satan asked Sayyiduna Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, ‘You spent your entire life in

debates and discussions. Have you even recognized the Allah Almighty?’ Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Without a doubt, the Allah Almighty is One.’ ‘Any proof’, asked Satan. He gave a proof but the cursed Satan, the ex-teacher of angels, responded cunningly. Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave another proof but Satan responded again. Sayyiduna Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave even 360 proofs but all of them were responded by Satan (as per its bad presumption). Now the Imam was extremely worried and disappointed. His spiritual guide (Sayyiduna Shaykh) Najmuddin Kubra رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was making Wudu at a far-flung area. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from the very same place, ‘Why do you not say that I believe in the Oneness of Allah Almighty without any proof’ (Malfuzaat, part 4, pp. 493; summarised)

Become a Mureed of a Murshid-e-Kamil

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable, we come to know that Allah Almighty has blessed His righteous bondmen with so much power that not only do they see the matters of places several miles away from them but also help them out. Like Sayyiduna Shaykh Najmuddin Kubra رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saved his disciple from Shaytan during his last breaths. We further come to know that becoming disciple of a rightly deserving Peer [spiritual guide – who according to Shari’ah fulfils the conditions of becoming a Peer] is extremely beneficial for one’s Iman [faith]. A Peer is chosen so that one’s matters of the Hereafter get better. So that through the blessings of his guidance and spirituality, the disciple spends his days and nights performing the actions that please Allah Almighty while refraining from the actions that displease Him and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Alas! In today’s day and age, many people have turned the very important responsibility of Peeri Mureedi into a means of attaining this world. Various heretic and misguided people are destroying the Iman of people while apparently pretending to be the possessor of mysticism. In order to know the conditions, attributes and other information regarding a Peer-e-Kamil, read the book ‘ Adaab-e-Murshid-e-Kamil ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Along with obtaining beneficial information, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will develop a mind-set to become a disciple of a Murshid-e-Kamil.

If you have already become a disciple, then you will also obtain the information regarding what rights a Peer has over his disciple. If you still have not become anyone’s disciple so far, then do not worry. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s day and age, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is also a true example of a Murshid-e-Kamil. You can become his disciple. The blessings of his piety and righteousness are apparent and very clear in front of us in the form of the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. His gaze of Wilayah and Madani Tarbiyyat (edification) full of wisdom has brought a Madani revolution in the lives of the millions of Muslims around the world, especially among the youth. Through his blessings, numerous non-Salah offering people became punctual on offering Salah. Those who had a rude behaviour towards their parents started respecting their parents. Those who were fond of listening to songs and music became engrossed in the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and started listening to Na’ats, Madani Muzakarahs and Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat. Those who used to sing along the songs of films started reciting the Na’ats of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Those whose purpose of life was to only accumulate wealth were given the Madani mind-set of contemplating over the Hereafter. Those who used to waste time by going to recreational places started attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat from start till end.

Therefore, in order to attain the blessings of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and to make the purpose of your life successful, you should accumulate virtuous deeds and provisions for the Hereafter while associating yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami by practically participating in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, waking up Muslims for Fajr Salah is called ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one can attain the privilege of offering the

Tahajjud Salah. Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one’s Salah gets protected. Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one can offer the Fajr Salah with Takbeer-e-Aula (first Takbeer) in the first row of Masjid. Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one can also attain the reward for calling out the “Call towards righteousness”.

Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, publicity and good name of Dawat-e-Islami will spread across. One calling out ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ gives the Du’as of Hajj and beholding the sacred Madinah again and again to Muslims. If Allah Almighty wills, these Du’as will also be accepted in his favour too. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of calling out Sada-e-Madinah and sway with joy.

Was called to the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

An Islamic brother of Ilahabad (Kasur, Punjab) was in fact associated with the Madani environment of the movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, but was lazy in terms of performing Madani activities. Coincidentally, in Muharram-ul-Haraam 1431 AH corresponding to January 2010 AD, he met the responsible Islamic brother of the Zonal Mushawarat of the movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. When the responsible Islamic brother found about his disinterest in the Madani activities, then performing individual efforts upon him, he not only gave him the mind-set of performing Madani activities but persuaded him to punctually call out the ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. In addition, he also relayed him the saying of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه in this regard that “ Sada-e-Madinah dikhaye Madinah ” (i.e. calling out Sada-e-Madinah will make you behold the blessed Madinah).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He developed the mind-set and started acting upon it from the very next day out of the hope of visiting the blessed Madinah. As soon as he started calling out Sada-e-Madinah, the grace of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started showering upon him. His fortune shone in such a way that he was blessed with presenting himself in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the same very year. Further

grace showered upon him in the form of his brother also being privileged to perform Hajj due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever we get a chance, we should sit in the company of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty in order to attain their blessings. Moreover, along with other righteous intentions, one should also intend in the heart that I am adopting their company for religious benefits and the benefits of the Hereafter. One of the benefits for adopting the company of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty is also that by looking at their nobility, character and righteous deeds, one gets the ability to refrain from sins as well as performing righteous deeds. Hard heartedness is removed. One develops softness and the virtue of tenderness. He develops a mind-set of contemplating upon his end with Iman and terrifying matters of the grave and the Hereafter. In short, whenever anyone is blessed with this privilege, then he shall not go there with any worldly greed, but with the intention of attaining a religious benefit.

Knew what was in his heart

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page no. 419 of the first volume of Faizan-e-Sunnat: Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: We three close friends went towards the village called “Ramlah” in order to behold Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-Ma’la رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . On the way, we decided that every one of us shall have a desire in our heart. I made the intention that I have to take the Munajat and couplets of Sayyiduna Husayn Bin Mansoor Hallaaj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-‘Ala رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The second friend made the intention of attaining cure from the splenic disorder. The third friend said that I have the desire for eating Halvah Sabooni [a kind of sweet dish].

When we reached there, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had the couplets and Munajat of Sayyiduna Husayn Bin Mansoor Hallaaj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه written and ready for me

which he handed over to me. He rubbed his hand over the stomach of the second friend and he was cured of the splenic disorder. To the third friend, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Sabooni Halvah is a food of the royal courts; whereas, you have worn the attire of the blessed Sufiya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Out of both of these, choose one of them.’ (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 384)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی become aware of the matters of people’s hearts by the bestowal of Allah Almighty. That’s why Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-Ma’la رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned the desires of hearts of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his close friends without asking them. Moreover, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fulfilled 2 of the desires and gave Madani pearl of reformation to the third one. So we come to know that when we present ourselves in the court of the Wali of Allah Almighty, then we shall control our heart and have their eminence and devotion established in our hearts throughout our lives. May it not be the case that a person stays in their company for a little while and after attaining Tarbiyyah [edification] from them, starts to consider them inferior. If somebody does so or even bring such thought in his mind, then along with remaining deprived of the blessings of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, he also faces severe loss.

Face turned black due to having ill-belief for his Murshid

One of the disciples of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had some evil in his intention. He thought that he has also attained an extremely elevated status. Now, he does not need a Murshid. Therefore, he turned away from the court of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and left. Then one day, he returned to see and test Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه whether he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is aware of the states of his heart or not.

On the other hand, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had also witnessed his state through the luminosity of his spiritual wisdom. Therefore, when that disciple came and asked him a question, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘What kind of answer do you want? Literal [in words] or figurative [in meanings]?’ He said, ‘In both forms.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘If you want a literal answer, then listen! If you had tested yourself before testing me, then you would not have

had the need to test me and neither would you have come here to test me. And the figurative answer is that I have taken your rank of sainthood away.’ As soon as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said this, the disciple’s face turned black. Wailing and crying, he said, ‘Your Highness! My heart has been devoid of the joy of belief.’ Then he repented and also expressed remorse over the useless things he uttered. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 137)

Anyhow, we shall never test any of the Awliya. Neither shall we have any bad-assumption about any Wali and nor shall we have any enmity in our hearts for any Wali of Allah. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah Almighty says: ‘ مَنْ عَادَى لِي وَلِيًّا فَقَدْ آذَنْتُهُ بِالْحَرْبِ ’ i.e. the one who has enmity against any of my Wali, I declare war against him .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

May Allah Almighty always keep the eminence and dignity of His blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in our hearts and save us from the company of those who are insolent towards them.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Having animosity against the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty, being insolent towards them, troubling them in different ways, hurting them by taking over their wealth and possessions unlawfully is sheer foolishness and a means of destruction of this world and the Hereafter. The dignity and grandeur of these sacred personalities are so elevated that even in case all the people collectively bear witness against them on a specific matter, still Allah Almighty creates the means for the witness of their truthfulness and honesty which increases their dignity, grandeur, reverence and fame in the hearts of people even further.

Earth bore witness

One person unlawfully claimed possession over the land of Sayyiduna Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the court of the governor of the city. Therefore, the governor sent him [Baba Fareeduddin] the message to prove his ownership over the land. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Ask people whose land it is?’ The governor did not get satisfied with the answer and demanded him to present the proof. Sayyiduna Baba Fareeduddin Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Neither do I have any written proof, nor any witness. If you want to ascertain the truth, then ask from the same piece of land.’

The governor was stunned upon listening to this answer. Hence, he went to that very part of the land himself. A huge crowd of people gathered around. The governor asked the piece of land, “O land! Say who is your owner?’ The piece of land loudly proclaimed, ‘I am under the ownership of Sayyiduna Baba Fareed Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from a long time.’ Listening to this voice left the governor and all the attendees stunned. (Siyar-ul-Aqtaab - translated, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable, we come to know that even the earth is under the command of the chosen people of Allah Almighty. Moreover, these sacred personalities even command the earth to be their witness as and when needed. Furthermore, we also get the following Madani pearl that we shall never unlawfully occupy anyone’s possessions. Allah Almighty states in part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah no. 188:

وَ لَا تَاْكُلُوْۤا اَمْوَالَكُمْ بَیْنَكُمْ بِالْبَاطِلِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not unfairly consume the wealth of each other.

Dear Islamic brothers! In this blessed Ayah, taking over someone’s possessions unlawfully has been declared Haraam. There are different ways of it:

٭ Snatching someone’s wealth

٭ Stealing someone’s wealth

٭ Taking bribes

٭ Committing treachery in other person’s wealth.

The aforementioned Ayah encompasses all the activities mentioned above. (Tafseer Baghawi, part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah 188, vol. 1, pp. 114)

May Allah Almighty enable us to observe good conduct with Muslims and refrain from oppressing or being unjust to them.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed Awliya even benefit after their demise

Dear Islamic brothers! When the chosen people of Allah Almighty attain His pleasure through acting upon His commandments, then Allah Almighty blesses them with incomparable elevation and excellence through His Divine grace. Moreover, these sacred personalities possess the incomparable power of removing people’s difficulties even after their demise. The powers that are bestowed upon the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in this world, they not only remain intact after their demise too but eventually increase further. Because the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are not only alive in their shrines due to the bestowments of Allah Almighty, but they also guide the ardent visitors of their shrines towards the right path and also help them out.

Sayyiduna Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Bodies of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, Awliya and martyrs رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی neither deform nor decay in the graves because Allah Almighty Has kept their bodies safe from the defect that is formed due to the rotting of flesh. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Taht-al-Ayah 41, vol. 3, pp. 439)

Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Whomever help is sought from during their lifetime, it can also be sought after their demise too. Similarly, it is the saying of the righteous predecessors: There are four such noble personalities who use their authority in matters in the same way as

they did in their lifetime. (After their apparent demise), they رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی use their authority to a lot greater degree (than they did in their lifetime). (1) Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, (2) Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and two other apart from them (i.e. (3) Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Aqeel Munjibi and (4) Sayyiduna Shaykh Haya Bin Qays Harraani رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی). (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 124; Lam’aat-ut-Tanqeeh, vol. 4, pp. 215, Taht-al-Bab: 8)

In this relation, let’s listen to two such faith enlightening parables where the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی fulfilled the need of the visitors of their shrines after their demise.

Fulfilling the need after demise

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Umar Faroosi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I have been blessed with the privilege of visiting the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Rifaa’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه several times. Once, it even happened that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loudly proclaimed from his grave regarding one of my needs that ‘Go! Your need has been fulfilled’. (Jaami’ Karamaat-e-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 491)

Debt was written-off

Sayyiduna Hameedi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Once, I was in debt. In the same state of distress, I visited the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Ja’far Husayni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, sat there, recited the Holy Quran for a little while, and ended up crying. One of the visitors heard my weeping. He gave me some gold and said, ‘Take this gold for the sake of the Sahib-e-Mazaar [the one whose shrine it is].’ I took that gold and left. I had walked only a few steps and whom I was indebted to, arrived. He looked at me and smiled, and said, ‘Return this gold to him because I am more deserving of reward compared to him.’ Asking him about the removal of this debt from me, I asked him that ‘how did you come to know about my intention?’ He said, ‘I saw this pious saint (of whose shrine this is) in my dream. He said to me that if you forgive Hameedi (i.e. write-off his debt), then I will make you earn a palace in the Paradise.’ Thereafter, he not only forgave my debt but gave me further six dirhams. (Jaami’ Karamaat-e-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 172)

Visiting shrines is a source of blessings

Dear Islamic brothers! Du’as are accepted by the virtue of visiting the shrines of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . One’s difficulties and calamities are removed. Moreover, to visit the shrines of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی with this very intention has been the practice of our righteous predecessors. Therefore, Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Once, I faced a (religious) difficulty. I tried to resolve it but did not succeed. I once faced a similar kind of difficulty before too which was resolved by the virtue of visiting the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Shaykh Ba-Yazeed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Sulayman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I had a need and was also very poor. I visited the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . I recited Surah Al-Ikhlas three times and conveyed its reward to his soul and the souls of all the Muslims. Then I mentioned my need. As soon as I returned from there, my need had been fulfilled. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 188)

Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the passion for acting upon the Seerah of the chosen people of Allah Almighty and to attain the spiritual blessings of their spirituality, always remain associated with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, that is enriched with the blessings of Sahabah and Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is spreading the call towards righteousness all around the world in more or less 104 departments. One department out of them is also “Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah”. This department is rendering its services in purely academic, research and publication fields with the sincere intention of reforming the Ummah. Following are the achievements that “Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah” has achieved through the services of literature:

٭ Imparting important information of the Holy Quran and Hadees to people.

٭ Presenting Arabic books of righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in simple Urdu for the ease and benefit of general public.

٭ Resolving the issues faced in the academic books for the students of Dars-e-Nizami, i.e. ‘Aalim course.

٭ Writing books and booklets on the blessed Seerah of Sahabah, Ahl-e-Bayt and Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

٭ Publishing the books of ‘Ala Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه according to the needs of the current era in as much simpler form as possible.

Commending the same very efforts of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah, Shaykh-e- Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه once said: I have the experience of how difficult it was to prepare a Bayan before. Now, Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah has provided a lot of material to Muballighin in their books. You too make the intention of reading all the books of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Every now and then, blessed Islamic scholars and Muftis from Pakistan and abroad pay a visit and bless Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah with their Du’as after becoming pleased with their academic efforts. May Allah Almighty bless the department 'Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah” with further progression and blessings.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding visiting the graveyard

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls regarding visiting the graveyard from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘I had prohibited you from visiting the graves. But now, do visit the graves, because it causes dislike for the worldliness and reminds one of the afterlife.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 252, vol. 2, Hadees 1571)

٭ Visiting the graves of the Muslims is a Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and visiting the blessed tombs of the Awliya and the martyrs is even virtuous. Sending them Sawab is a Sawab-bearing act. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 532)

٭ If one intends to visit a Muslim’s grave or a Mazaar (mausoleum) of some beloved of Allah, it is Mustahab for him to firstly offer two Rak’aat Nafl Salah (not in Makruh timings) at his home reciting Ayat-ul-Kursi once and Surah Al-Ikhlas thrice after Surah Al-Fatihah in each Rak’at and to donate its Sawab to the Sahib -e-Qabr (i.e. the one who is buried there); Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will produce Noor (light) in the grave of that deceased person and will abundantly reward this person (who donated the Sawab).

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 350)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of visiting the graveyard will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend these Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 06 December 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding visiting the graveyard

٭ Don’t engage in useless conversations when going to visit a Mazaar (mausoleum) or a grave. (Ibid)

٭ Do not kiss the grave or put your hands on it, but rather stand some distance away from the grave.

٭ To prostrate to a grave out of respect is Haraam, and if done with the intention of worship, it is Kufr (unbelief). (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 423)

٭ Enter the graveyard from the usual pathway where there had never been graves of Muslims before.

٭ Never use the new pathways, because new path ways are usually paved on the graves. It is quoted in Rad-dul-Muhtar: Walking on new pathways (that has been built by levelling the graves) is Haraam. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 1, pp. 612)

٭ Even if one suspects that the new pathway may have been built over graves, it is not permissible and sinful to walk on that. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 183)

٭ It has been observed at some Mazaars of the beloveds of Allah that expansion takes place by demolishing the graves of Muslims just to facilitate visitors. Walking, standing, lying down, seating arrangements for the recitation (of the Holy Quran) and invocations etc. upon such areas are Haraam. Rather, recite Fatihah from a distance.

٭ In Mazaar, stand in front of the face of the beloved of Allah. Approach it from the foot side in order to remain in front of his vision; never approach from the head side as he (the buried one) would have to turn his head to look at you. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 532)

٭ In the graveyard, stand with the back towards the holy Qiblah whilst facing the face of the buried one, and then recite:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ يَـا اَهۡلَ الۡقُبُوۡرِ

يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ اَنۡتُمۡ لَنَا سَلَـفٌ وَّنَحۡنُ بِالۡاَثَر

Translation: Salutation be upon you all, O inhabitants of the graves, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you. You came (here) before us and we are about to follow after you. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 350)

٭ Whoever enters the graveyard and recites this supplication:

اَللّٰهُمَّ رَبَّ الۡاَجۡسَادِ الۡبَالِيَةِ وَالۡعِظَامِ النَّخِرَةِ الَّتِيۡ خَرَجَتۡ مِنَ الدُّنۡيَا وَهِيَ بِكَ مُؤۡمِنَةٌ اَدۡخِلۡ عَلَيۡهَا رَوۡحًا مِّنۡ عِنۡدِكَ وَ سَلَامًا مِّنِّيۡ

Translation: O Allah! O Lord of the bodies that have deteriorated and the bones that have decayed! Bestow your mercy upon those who departed from this world in the state of faith and give my Salam to them.

Then all the believers who have passed away from Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام until the time of that supplication will all supplicate for the forgiveness of the one who recited the supplication.

(Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 226)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever enters a graveyard and recites Surah Al-Fatihah, Surah Al-Ikhlas and Surah At-Takasur and then makes the following supplication, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Whatever I have recited from the Holy Quran, grant the reward of it to all

the Muslim men and women buried in this graveyard.’ Then all of them will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement.’ (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 311)

٭ It is stated in a Hadees: Whoever recites Surah Al-Ikhlas 11 times and passes on the rewards of its virtues to the deceased, he will be rewarded in accordance with the number of the deceased. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 285, Hadees 23152)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of a headache

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, ‘ the Du’a of a headache ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اﷲِ الْ ـ کَبِیْرِ، اَعُوْذُ بِاﷲِ الْعَظِیْمِ مِنْ شَرِّ عِرْقٍ نَّعَّارٍ، وَ مِنْ شَرِّ حَرِِّ النَّارِ

Translation: Allah’s name to begin with Who is great. I seek refuge of the dignified Almighty from every twitching vein and the evil of the heat of Hell.

(Khazinah-e-Du’a, pp. 165)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

