اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Worship and Spiritual Exercises Performed by Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There will be no shade on the Day of Judgement except for the Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three persons will remain beneath the shade of the Divine throne. It was humbly asked, ‘O the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be those people?’ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(1) The one who relieves the distress of my Ummati

(follower) (2) the one who revives my Sunnah (3) and the one who recites Salat upon me abundantly.’ (Al-Budoor-us-Saafirah, pp. 131, Hadees 366)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram is in progress. It is the blessed month in which the great spiritual guide of Sunnis, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. He was born in the Mahallah Jasoli of Bareli (UP, India) on 10 Shawwal-ul-Mukarram corresponding to 14 th June, 1856 AD. (Hayat A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 58)

His birth name is ‘Muhammad’. His mother would call him ‘Amman Miyan’ out of love. His father and other relatives would call him ‘Ahmad Miyan’. His grandfather named him ‘Ahmad Raza’ and his historical name is ‘Al-Mukhtar’, (whereas his Kunyat is Abu Muhammad) and A’la Hadrat would himself write ‘Abdul Mustafa’ before his name. (Tajalliyat Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 21) At one place of his Na’tiyah collection, ‘ Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish ’, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

خَوْف نہ رکھ رضا ذرا، تُو تو ہے ’’عبدِ مصطفٰے‘‘

تیرے لیے اَمان ہے، تیرے لیے اَمان ہے

Since this blessed month of Shawwal is the month of A’la Hadrat’s birth, we will be privileged to listen to one aspect of his blessed life namely, ‘worship and spiritual exercises’ in relation to it. Let’s start the speech with a faith-refreshing parable.

Train kept stationary

Caliph of A’la Hadrat, Sayyid Ayyub Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once A’la Hadrat was going to Bareilly from Pilibhit by train. On the way, the train stopped at Nawab Ganj Station where train usually stops for two minutes at Maghrib time. As the train stopped, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started offering Salah after having Takbeer of Iqamat in the train. Probably 5 people were behind him offering Salah in his Iqtida and I was one of them. Before joining the Jama’at I

saw a non-Muslim guard who was waving green flag standing at the platform. I peeped through the window and saw that the line was clear and the train was about to leave, but the train did not move and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered all three Rak’aat Salah taking full time as he usually takes without any trouble and haste. When he performed Salam to his right, the train began to move. Muqtadi spontaneously recited ‘ سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه، سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه، سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه ’. The thing that needs to be considered in this saintly-miracle is that if the Jama’at had been offered at platform, it could have been said that the guard stopped the train by seeing a pious man offering Salah, but it did not happen, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered the Salah in the train. How could the guard know about it in this short period of time that a beloved bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ was offering Fard Salah in the train? (Hayat A’la Hadrat, vol. 3, pp. 189)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to offer Maghrib Salah with Jama’at, hence he led the Salah of five people, though trains do not stop for such a long time during which Salah can be usually offered with calmness and perfection, and the same thing happened. The guard was also showing green flag to leave, but the train did not move as long as Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained busy offering Salah. As he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Salah, the train also started moving immediately. From this parable not only A’la Hadrat’s saintly-miracle is proved, but his love for the Salah with Jama’at (congregational Salah) is also revealed. Since he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a true devotee of the Beloved Rasool, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه whether travelling or staying, would offer Salah with Jama’at which is very dear to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would himself say: I had to undergo long travelling, but I offered all five Salahs with Jama’at by the grace of Allah Almighty. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 75)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه always offered Salah with Jama’at even during the journey.

Dear Islamic brothers! The Jama’at of Masjid is Wajib unless there is any Shar’i reason. Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about Salah with Jama’at and make up our mind to offer Salah with Jama’at, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Offering Salah with Jama’at is 27 times more superior to the Salah offered alone. (Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 232)

2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who performs a perfect Wudu and goes to offer an obligatory Salah and offers Salah with Jama’at, his sins will be forgiven. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 130)

3 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased with those who offer Salah with Jama’at. (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 309)

4 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who offers Salah for forty days with Jama’at with first Takbeer for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for him two freedoms will be written—one from Hell, second from hypocrisy. (Tirmizi, vol. 1, pp. 274)

میں پانچوں نمازیں پڑھوں باجماعت ہو توفیق ایسی عطا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Hajj second time at the age of 52. After performing the Hajj rites he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill in such a way that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained in bed for more than two months due to the illness. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recovered to some extent, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه got ready to visit the luminous Raudah and reached Rabigh after three days passing through Jeddah by a boat and then hired the conveyance of a camel to Madina-tul-Rasool. On the way, when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached Bair-e-Shaykh; his destination was near, but there was a little time for Fajr. The camel drivers decided to stop their camels at the destination, but until then the

time of Fajr Salah had passed. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Having examined this situation my companions and I got off the camels and the caravan left. We had a canvas bucket, but no rope and the well was deep. We took the water out by tying many ‘Imamahs together with the bucket and then performed Wudu and offered Salah, بِحَمْدِ اللہ تَعَالٰی . Now I was worried as to how I would walk so many miles because I had become very weak due to being ill for such a long time. As I turned my face I saw a strange camel driver standing with his camel waiting for me. I thanked to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and mounted it. People asked him how he brought the camel there. He replied that he was urged by Shaykh Husayn to leave no stone unturned in serving A’la Hadrat. When we travelled a bit, I found that my camel driver was standing with his camel. When he was asked he replied: When the camel drivers of the caravan did not stop I thought that it would hurt the Shaykh that’s why I untied a camel from the caravan and brought it back here. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: All these are the favours of my Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, otherwise there was a great difference between me, the chief of Rabigh, Shaykh Husayn, who I did not know, and the camel drivers, who were short-tempered, and their unusual manners i.e., they respected me a lot. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 217)

Dear Islamic brothers! سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you noticed A’la Hadrat’s yearning for worship that he despite being ill for months and very weak and being carefree of every kind of troubles left the caravan, but did not miss Salah ‘ اَفضَلُ العِبادات ’ ‘ the most superior worship ’. Moreover, whenever he was able to stand, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah by standing. If his body did not have the energy, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would perform Qiyam, Ruku’ and Sujood with the help of a staff. When he became very weak and fell seriously ill, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah, the dear act to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, by facing every kind of trouble and difficulty on his Nafs. Acting upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and persuading Muslim Ummah to act upon them are such acts which were the parts of Sayyidi A’la Hadrat’s life and character.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! To worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the aim of our life and a great act. Surely the way Salah and Sawm, Hajj and Zakah are all the acts of worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, similarly, every such act by which the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ can be obtained will also be included in the meaning of worship. Therefore, with good intention helping the poor, solving the problems of the needy, earning Halal sustenance for wife and children, making people happy, enjoining to do good and preventing from evils, gaining Islamic knowledge, developing the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the hearts of people, using writing skills for helping religion, weeping out of Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, etc., are also included in the meaning of worship and for them we will get reward as well by the Grace of Allah Almighty.

Similarly, if we see, we find that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his nights and days in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because he would spend every moment of his life in propagating Islamic knowledge, developing the reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the hearts of people, doing good to others and giving Tarbiyyat (training) to his friends, family members and well-wishers in every aspect.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often feel sad out of the love and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would see the blasphemous lines of blasphemous people, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would start weeping and would denounce them by giving scholarly answers. In blessed Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

کروں تیرے نام پہ جاں فِدا، نہ بس ایک جاں دو جہاں فِدا

دو جہاں سے بھی نہیں جی بھرا، کروں کیا کروڑوں جہاں نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would never send the poor back empty-handed and would always help them. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even made a will to his friends and family

and relatives in his last days to take special care of the poor and give them good and delicious food hospitably from their own homes and not to scold them at all.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often remain busy writing and compiling books; he would go to the Masjid at the time of all five Salahs and would always offer Salah with Jama’at. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would stand up for reciting Salat and Salam at the time of making Zikr of blessed birth in the gathering of Meelad and would remain seated respectfully on knees in the rest of the time from beginning to end. In the same way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would deliver a speech, that is, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain on knees completely on pulpit for four to five hours. (Hayat A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 98)

May we also be privileged to sit on knees respectfully at the time of reciting and listening to the Holy Quran and at Ijtima’ of Zikr and Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Muzakarahs, Dars and Madani Halqahs, etc.!

A’la Hadrat’s character was not only outstanding, but his appearance was also unique! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was of medium height, with a wide forehead, large eyes, long and beautiful nose; his face was long, complexion was wheaten and attractive. He was as fresh as a great combination of awe and beauty. His fingers were long, eyebrows were thick, neck was high and hair was long enough down to the ear lobes. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 80)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Why and how did he memorize the Holy Quran?

Caliph of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Sayyid Ayyub Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that one day A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Some unacquainted people write Haafiz before my name though I am not worthy of this title. Sayyid Ayyub Ali Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: Since that day A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started memorizing the Holy Quran at the time perhaps after Isha Wudu till the Jama’at of Isha.

He would memorize one part every day until he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memorized 30 parts in thirty days. On one occasion, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I have memorized the Holy Quran with efforts in a sequence because I do not want that whatever these bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ [who write Haafiz before my name] said should be wrong. (Hayat A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 208)

Avoid your praise!

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable not only have we learnt about the outstanding memory of A’la Hadrat, but we have also learnt that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would dislike very much the attributes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not possess but people would mention with regards to him. The same kind of event also occurred with the Imam of millions of Hanafis, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Piety of Imam-e-A’zam

Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship the first half night. One day, he was passing through his way that he heard someone saying: He spends the whole night in worship. Thereafter he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship the whole night and would say: I feel shy from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the thing which is related to His worship is said about me which I do not possess. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 353)

Dear Islamic brothers! The passion for avoiding false praise of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who is completely like him, is greatly welcome! May we also try to improve our character further instead of being pleased with the false and true praise being showered upon us! Remember! It is not permissible as per Shar’iah to feel pleased with the false praise showered upon us. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If a person likes false praise to be showered on him, that is, people praise him with the virtues which he does not possess, so it is absolutely Haram. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 597)

Therefore, we should not let anyone praise us falsely, but rather if someone praises us with the attributes we possess, we should immediately reform him and advise him to refrain from praising us. From the sacred education of the

Holy Quran and blessed Hadees it has become obvious that the person who feels very pleased with his praise is very much disliked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and such kinds of men and women are usually surrounded by flatterers. These selfish people fool a person by praising him lavishly and achieve their targets [from those people]. They then make other people laugh by telling them the story how they fooled him. So everyone should be careful of the flatterers and of those who praise them in front of them and should not be pleased at all by listening to their own praise.

What should be done by listening to your own praise?

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Throw dust upon the faces of those who praise (Muslim, pp. 1600, Hadees 3002)

From this blessed Hadees we have obtained the Madani pearl that we should not be overjoyed to hear our own praise, but rather we should try to avoid it. When someone praises us truthfully, we should forbid him gently. If he does not refrain, so instead of being overjoyed we should make good intentions for the pleasure we are having such as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed my sins and disclosed my acts of worship to people by His mercy. What will be more favourable than this that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ discloses the acts of worship of His bondman after concealing his sins.

Excellence of imparting Islamic knowledge

Dear Islamic brothers! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only had love for Salah and recitation [of the Holy Quran], but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also remain busy with the propagation of Islamic knowledge day and night that is a better deed than Nafl deeds of worship because holding discussion and conversation even for a moment about the rulings on Islamic knowledge is better than worshipping the whole night. Let’s listen to few sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Islamic knowledge and then listen to the scholarly activities of Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

1 When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sent Sayyiduna Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to Yemen, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guides any one through you, so for you it is better than the world and whatever it contains.

(Zuhd li Ibn Mubarak, pp. 484, Hadees 1375)

2 The one who learns one chapter of knowledge to teach [it] to people will be given the reward of 70 Siddiqeen.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 119)

3 A Muslim cannot give better benefit to his Muslim brother that when he receives any good thing so he conveys it to his brother.

(Jaami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, pp. 62, Hadees 185)

4 When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills to do good to someone, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the understanding of religion upon him. (Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 41)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how great virtues there are for imparting Islamic knowledge! Keeping these virtues in mind if we see the blessed life of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه so it can be judged that he must have earned a great amount of reward. He spent his entire life in writing and making other write about Islamic knowledge, propagating Islamic knowledge and trying to reform people. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also do the work of (issuing Fatwas) answering to the (Istifta) questions along with a large number of activities of Islamic knowledge and this work was more than 10 expert Mufti because Istifta (Fatawa) would come to him from different cities and countries of the world such as India, Bangladesh, present Pakistan, China, Afghanistan, America, Africa and even Haramayn Sharifayn Muhtarmayn. Sometimes, even 500 Istifta would pile up in a single time.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 449)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use to be busy in writing Fatawa and the reason for this act of being busy was

his perfect expertise in the art of Ifta. That is why not only people but also great Islamic scholars and Muftis would also seek advice from him for research-based answers and for the solutions of complicated rulings. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written more or less 1000 books on different topics. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have given hundreds of thousands of Fatwas from 1286 AH to 1340 AH, but regretfully all Fatwas could not be copied. The collection of the Fatawa which were copied is famous by the name, ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’. Fatawa Razawiyyah consists of 30 volumes with total number of pages: 21,656; total number of questions and answers 6847 and total number of booklets: 206. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 10)

His farsightedness regarding Holy Quran, Hadees, Fiqh, logic and Kalam, etc., can be guessed by the study of his Fatawa because every Fatwa of his contains a large number of arguments. Surely his Fatawa are beautiful bouquets of every kind of rulings decorated with the teachings of Holy Quran, Hadees, Ijma’ and Shar’i laws explained by Islamic jurists which will continue to guide people until the world exists and will continue to bring about more rise in his high ranks at his blessed shrine.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Yaum-e-Tateel (holiday) I’tikaf— one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain the blessings from A’la Hadrat and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One weekly Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities is ‘Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf’.

On a holiday, devotees of Rasool go to the areas of the city, surrounding villages and suburbs to fill the Masajid with Salah-offering people and also present the call towards righteousness to the local devotees of Rasool to gain and impart Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf is the best source of teaching Sunnahs, manners and the method of delivering Madani Dars, etc., to Islamic brothers. By virtue of the blessings of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf Masajid are filled with Salah-offering Muslims. By virtue of the blessing

of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf every moment that is spent in the Masjid will be considered to be worship. By virtue of the blessing of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf one will attain the excellence of loving Masjid and spending more and more time in it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, spending more time in the Masjid has great excellence:

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see someone coming and going to the Masjid abundantly, give evidence of his faith because in Ayah 18 of Surah At-Taubah, part 10, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ وَ لَمْ یَخْشَ اِلَّا اللّٰهَ فَعَسٰۤى اُولٰٓىٕكَ اَنْ یَّكُوْنُوْا مِنَ الْمُهْتَدِیْنَ(۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the mosques of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day and keep the prayer established and pay the (obligatory) charity and fear none except Allah, so it is near that they will be among the people of guidance. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to go to the Masjid regularly for worship, offer Salah and pay Zakah! Good company is very necessary in order to attain steadfastness in virtuous deeds, otherwise sometimes a person after listening or reading the virtues of virtuous deeds makes his mind that he will not disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and will perform only virtuous deeds, but as he falls into bad company it becomes a hurdle for him in attaining steadfastness in virtuous deeds. Sometimes the work that should be avoided not only wastes a person’s time, but it also deprives him of many virtuous deeds.

I was fond of flying kites!

An Islamic brother from Babul Madinah (Karachi) was fond of flying kites. Playing with marbles and playing video games, etc., were his hobbies. He was committing the evils like poking his nose into everyone’s affairs, quarrelling with people and fighting over trivial matters. Once he performed I’tikaf in the last 10 days of blessed Ramadan in the Masjid of his area. During I’tikaf he had very good dreams and attained immense peace of mind. Thereafter he

was privileged to observe I’tikaf for another 2 years. Once, the Muazzin of his Masjid took him to the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah (Babul Madinah, Karachi). The attraction and luminosity of the face of the preacher charmed him and he associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has also grown a fist-length beard.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Never missed Sawm

Dear Islamic brothers! Despite being busy full time with religious activities A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would eat little food. His common food was roti made of the flour ground in a flour mill and mutton Qaurmah. In his last days, this food further reduced to mere a cup of mutton soup without chilli and one or one and a half biscuits made of semolina. He was extremely simple in eating and drinking (water etc.). (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 113)

In the blessed month of Ramadan, this food used to get further reduced. The caliph of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Muhammad Husayn Mirathi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I observed I’tikaf from the 20 th of the blessed Ramadan. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to the Masjid and said, ‘I also want to observe I’tikaf, but I do not get free time [because of religious activities]’. Finally, on the 26 th blessed Ramadan, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I should become Mu’takif from today. Maulana Muhammad Husayn Mirathi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: In the evening, I did not see A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه eating food on any day [though he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would break his Sawm with date, etc.]. At Sahari, Feerni (sweet dish of rice, milk and sugar) in a small bowl and chutney in a cup would be brought to him which he would eat. One day, I asked him: Your highness! What is the match between Feerni and chutney? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: To start eating with salt and end eating with salt are a Sunnah. Hence chutney is brought to me. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 113)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The embodiment of Sunnah A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use salty chutney before and after sweet Feerni to act upon the Sunnah of using

salt in the beginning and end of eating food. Eating salt (or salty thing) in the beginning and end of food removes 70 diseases اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 658)

Dear Islamic brothers! Despite eating so little food A’la Hadrat never missed a Sawm. His nephew and caliph Maulana Hasanayn Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: About the Qada of Sawm I have never heard from any of his elders, and nor from anyone who is of his age, and nor have we [younger] have seen him doing Qada of the Sawm of this blessed month.

Sometimes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill in the blessed month of Ramadan, but he did not miss a Sawm. If someone insistently asked him humbly that weakness, in such a state, will further increase due to Sawm so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Should I not undergo treatment if I am a patient? People would surprisingly say: Is Sawm a treatment? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: It is an effective treatment. It is the treatment mentioned by my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ صُوْمُوا تَصِحُّوا ’ i.e. Observe Sawm, you will become healthy. (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 146, Hadees 8312)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of the perfect pious saints who were very careful about the grandeur of Divine obligations. When the month of Ramadan of 1339 AH began in May, June 1921 and due to being constantly ill and being very weak A’la Hadrat did not find the energy to observe Sawm of summer, he issued this Fatwa for himself: It is cold on the mountain, observing Sawm is possible there, therefore it has become mandatory for me to go there for observing Sawm since I can afford to go there. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then went to Koh-e-Bhowali, district Nainital with the intention to observe Sawm. (Tajalliyat Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 133)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how little food A’la Hadrat would eat! May we also get rid of the habit of eating a lot and make the habit of observing Qufl-e-Madinah! Apart from it, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would be so

careful regarding performing obligatory acts of worship that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started observing Siyam at the age of 7 and until his last days he neither missed any Sawm nor needed to do Qada of any Sawm. But alas! At present, in our society, people make many efforts and make lame excuses for missing the Siyam of Ramadan and miss Siyam without any valid reason.

Remember! No one is allowed to miss a Sawm due to a headache, nausea, slight fever, cough and other minor illnesses, though there are some compulsions due to which a person is allowed not to observe Sawm in blessed Ramadan. But, remember, Sawm is not exempted in any compulsion, but rather its Qada is mandatory when the compulsion is over. However, there will be no sin of Qada, but nowadays it is observed that people miss Sawm due to a slight cold, fever or headache or مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they break it after observing. It should not be done at all. If someone misses a Sawm without any valid Shar’i compulsion, he cannot attain the excellence of that Sawm, though later on he observes Siyam for his whole life.

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak passed few days ago which was spreading its fragrance, illuminating the world with Anwaar [light], illuminating the hearts of the sinners like us and making ways for our forgiveness. It is possible that any Islamic brother might have missed the Siyam [fasts] of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak just because of laziness and heedlessness. It is a humble Madani request to such Islamic brothers that being concerned for your own Hereafter and fearing Divine wrath, seek repentance for all the Siyam you have broken early or missed to date, pay Kaffarah as well after seeking Shar’i guidance if it needs to be paid and also observe those missed Siyam now. For learning about observing missed Siyam, laws of Kaffarah and the method of paying Kaffarah, study from pages 1081 to 1088 of “ Faizan-e-Sunnat ”, an excellent book of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . In fact, make efforts and study the complete book from the beginning till the end; اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will gain priceless treasure of knowledge. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us ability to act upon it.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah

Dear Islamic brothers! Dawat-e-Islami is making efforts to propagate Islamic teachings in approximately 104 departments which are serving Islam. One of them is Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah as well which has taken on the task of purely knowledge-related, research and publication work, having the yearning for reforming the Ummah. For example, delivering important information of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees to the people, presenting the Arabic books of the pious predecessors with an easy Urdu translation for the easiness and benefit of the people, solving the problems of the textbooks for the students of Dars-e-Nizami i.e. ‘Aalim course, and writing books and booklets on the blessed life histories of the “blessed Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt” and honourable Awliya are all included in the written achievements of Al-Madina-tul-’Ilmiyyah. Appreciating these very efforts of Al-Madina-tul-’Ilmiyyah, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه said on one occasion: ‘I have the experience of the fact that how difficult it was to prepare Bayan before. Al-Madina-tul-’Ilmiyyah has now given a lot of material to the Muballighin through its books. You also make the intention of reading all the books of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.’ Moreover, the blessed ‘Ulama and Muftis who occasionally visit from Pakistan and abroad also become happy by the written work of Al Madina-tu-Ilmiyyah and make many Du’as for it. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless “Al-Madina-tu-Ilmiyyah” with more success.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of studying

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding study. First listen to 2 sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ Certainly, knowledge is acquired through learning.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 41, Hadees 67)

٭ World is cursed and everything in it is also cursed except for the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, [except for] His wali i.e. friend and the one who learns and teaches religious knowledge. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 144, Hadees 2329)

٭ Study is the means of strengthening the Iman. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 17)

٭ Knowledge increases through study. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 18)

٭ Study is a means of gaining Ma’rifat. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

٭ By studying, a person develops the mindset of pondering over the universe. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

٭ Study increases the intellect and awareness.

(Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 19)

Announcement

Rest of the important Madani pearls regarding studying will be delivered in Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs for obtaining these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 21 June 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of studying

٭ Always keep away from such books, booklets and newspapers consisting of indecent pictures and immoral content that pose a risk to your Iman.

(Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 29)

٭ In order to learn about the blessed life-histories of the pious predecessors and to adopt their righteous deeds, it is also necessary to read the books containing information about their blessed lives.

(Ibid, pp. 33)

٭ Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When you are going to seek any branch of knowledge or read anything, it is better that your knowledge and study bring about Tazkiyah Nafs (purification of the self) and spiritual reformation. (Ibid, pp. 32)

٭ Like medicines are taken and Wazaaif (Islamic invocations) are recited for strengthening memory, the act of reading is also a prescription for it.

(Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ Try to keep a book with you every time as whenever you get any opportunity, read some pages of it, and by adopting this habit, one will keep engaged in the company of book. (Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ After finishing a book, it is recommended to give a bird’s eye view from start to end to what you have read and learned. Keep its summary commit to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ It is also useful to make accountability yourself examining as to what you have learned and which content is committed to your memory and which is not committed to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ For remembering anything, it is beneficial to pressurise your mind by closing your eyes. (Ibid, pp. 117)

٭ Whatever you read, share it with your family members and friends with good intentions; this is also a way to preserve the treasure of information in our mind for a long period. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ Whatever you read, keep repeating it. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ In Madani Muzakarahs, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه delivers interesting and precious Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge. By the blessings of these Madani Muzakarahs, one develops a strong keenness for reading further, acting upon what is read and conveying it to others.

(Ibid, pp. 115)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a when exiting home

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a when exiting home ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَوَکَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُـوَّ ۃَ اِلَّا بِا للّٰہِ

Translation:

In the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Strength to refrain from sins and power to do good is (bestowed) from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ only.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

