اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Beauty of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abul Mawahib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘I saw the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘You will intercede for one hundred thousand people on the Day of Judgement.’ I asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How did I gain such a

great status?’ The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Because you recite Salat and send its reward to me.’ (At-Tabqat-tul-Kubra lish-Sha’rani, vol. 2, pp. 101)

شافعِ روزِ جَزا، تم پہ کروروں دُرُود دافعِ جُملہ بلا ،تم پہ کروروں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Embodiment of unique beauty

It has been narrated that once some non-Muslims came to Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and requested him: O Abul Hassan! Tell us about the attributes of your cousin (i.e. the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! So he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was neither very tall nor very short, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was a little taller than the medium height. His blessed colour was white with the mixing of redness. His blessed hair was not very curly, but a little curved coming down to the blessed ears. His blessed forehead was wide, eyes filled with kohl, teeth gleaming, beautifully raised nose, neck as clear as a long-necked flask of silver. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would set his step so firmly as if he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had been descending from a height. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would pay attention to someone, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would pay full attention. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would stand, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look taller than people and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would sit, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look prominent.

When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would talk, people would remain quiet. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give sermon, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would make the audience weep. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be very kind and merciful to people, like affectionate father towards the orphans, merciful and soft-hearted for the widows, the bravest, the most generous and having the most gleaming face. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would wear Jubbah (a long loose dress) and eat the barley bread. The pillow of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made of leather filled with the bark of date tree. The Charpoy (a light bedstead used nowadays in Indo-Pak, consisting of a web of rope or tape netting) was made of acacia wood woven with the ropes of the leaves of date tree. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had two ‘Imamahs. The name of one ‘Imamah was Sahaab and the other one was ‘Uqqaab. The things which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used were, sword Zulfiqar, she camel ‘Adba, mule Duldul, donkey Ya’foor, horse Bahr, goat Barkatah, staff Mamshooq and flag ‘ لِواءُ الۡحَمۡد ’ [Liwa-ul-Hamd]. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself would tie and give fodder to the camel; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would patch his clothes and would mend shoes himself.

Having given the description of the complete blessed appearance, Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated: ‘ لَمْ اَرَ قَبْلَہٗ وَ لَا بَعْدَہٗ مِثْلَہٗ ’, I have never seen anyone like the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before and after him. (Izala-tul-Khifa, vol. 4, pp. 499; Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 364, Hadees 3657/ 3658)

حُسن تیرا سا نہ دیکھا نہ سُنا کہتے ہیں اگلے زمانے والے

وہی دھوم ان کی ہے مَا شَاءَ الله مِٹ گئے آپ مٹانے والے

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا صد مرحبا

اَوج و کمالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how beautifully Sayyiduna Ali Al-Murtaza رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has described the blessed beauty and habits of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was very soft-hearted and the one who would love orphans and children. So humble was our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would patch up his clothes himself. On the other hand, we need a new dress for every party and dispose of the clothes which are in good condition, without any reason. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would do his work himself, but we intimidate our family members and servants into doing our work. If anything contrary to our mood happens, we start quarrelling with the family members and punishing the servants. Sometimes, we even dismiss them from their jobs. Remember! The blessed character of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, whose Kalimah we have recited, gives us the lesson of being humble, affectionate towards the younger and treating servants well.

Therefore adopt the blessed character of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and make your world and the Hereafter better because the blessed manners

and habits of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are unique and outstanding. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is unique and excellent amongst all creations. Surely there was no one, there is no one and there will be no one before and after, who has such beauty and possesses good qualities and marvels. Hence, describing the character and appearance of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم both, Maula-e-Kainaat رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has rightly stated: ‘ لَمْ اَرَ قَبْلَہٗ وَلَا بَعْدَہٗ مِثْلَہٗ ’ i.e. I have not seen any one like you before and after you. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: How could blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ see the one who is like the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not created anyone like him. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 8, pp. 58)

کوئی مثل مصطفےٰ کا کبھی تھا نہ ہے نہ ہوگا

کسی اور کا یہ رتبہ کبھی تھا نہ ہے نہ ہوگا

Remember! The way there is no one equal to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in regard to his excellent character, similarly, there is no one as handsome as him in the entire creation. His personality is such an embodiment of beauty that even a dead bud would bloom, dark heart would shine brightly and sad heart would attain peace and comfort by getting his blessed glance. The beauty of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such outstanding that every companion would desire to see the blessed face of Noor of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all the time. That is why blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ would get great joy and comfort by seeing the luminous face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . And only one view of the blessed face would give them plenty of pleasure. Describing the state of his heart at the time of seeing the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: ‘ اِنِّی ْاِذَا رَأَیْتُکَ طَابَتْ نَفْسِیْ وَ قَرَّتْ عَیْنِیْ ’ i.e. When I am privileged to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I rejoice and it gives me comfort.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 151, Hadees 7938)

Similarly, a person came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and started seeing him in a way that he did not blink his eyes. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Why are looking at me like this? He humbly replied: O my Master! May my parents be sacrificed for you! I enjoy seeing your luminous blessed face. (Shifa, vol. 2, pp. 20)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ!, blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ were so deeply in love with the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they would be lost all the time in the luminous appearance of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would illuminate their hearts and minds with the Tajalliyaat (blessed sights) of his luminous face. The beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such marvellous that the person who once saw him, used to be captivated by seeing him. Seeing the luminous face of Mustafa, blessed companions used to be engrossed so deeply in devotion to Rasool that some would compare the blessed face with the moon, for some the face was even more beautiful than the moon and some would compare the face with the sun. In short, expressing their love and devotion in their own words every companion would describe the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ مَارَاَیْتُ شَیْئاً اَحْسَنَ مِنْ رَّسُوْلِ اللّٰہ صَلَی اللّٰہُ عَلَیْہ وَسَلَّمَ کَاَنَّ الشَّمْسَ تَجْرِیْ عَلٰی وَجْہِہٖ ’ i.e. I have never seen anyone more beautiful than the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It seems as though the sun is emerging from his blessed face. (Mishkaat, vol. 2, pp. 362, Hadees 5795)

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin Samurah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in a red lined robes on a full-moon night, I sometimes looked at the moon and sometimes towards the luminous face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so I concluded that his blessed face was more beautiful than even the moon.

(Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 24, Hadees 9)

Elaborating on the blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: These blessed personalities could see the reality. In reality, the blessed face of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is far more beautiful than the moon because the moon only shines in the night, while this blessed face shines day and night; the moon only shines three nights, whereas this blessed face always shines, shines day and night; the moon shines on the body, whereas this blessed face also shines in the heart; the moon gives Noor to the bodies, but this blessed face bestows Noor to Iman; the moon becomes large and small, whereas this blessed face does not become small; the moon has an eclipse, whereas this blessed face never has an eclipse; the system of the world of material bodies is going on due to the moon whereas the system of the world of faith is going on because of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The fact that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is more beautiful than the moon was not only their belief, but in fact no one has ever cut his hand after sighting the moon, but after seeing the beauty of Yusuf the women of Egypt cut their hands and the beauty of Muhammad is much superior to the beauty of Yusuf. Therefore the above mentioned saying of Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is absolutely right. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 8, pp. 60)

یہ جو مَہر و مَہ پہ ہے اِطلاق آتا نُور کا بھیک تیرے نام کی ہے اِسْتِعارہ نُور کا

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Face like full-moon night

Once, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to the orchards of Madinah where he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met a caravan. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked them where they came from. They replied that they came to get the dates of this place. They had a red camel. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked if they wanted to sell the camel. They replied in positive and said that they would sell it in exchange for such-and-such quantity of Saa dates. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Since I did not come here with the intention to buy the camel, I

do not have its money. After reaching my city I will send the money. Having said this, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم held the bridle of the camel and started walking. The caravan continued to see him until he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was in their sight. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم disappeared from their sight, they started saying to one another: O, what have we done! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We have given the camel to the person who we do not know, and nor have we received its price. We were talking to one another and that person took our camel away. In the meantime, the woman, who was with them, said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I saw his face; his face was like the full moon. ‘ اَنَا ضَامِنَۃٌ لِثَمَنِِ جَمَلِکُمْ ’ I stand surety for your camel. If he does not return, you may receive its price from me. (Dala’il-un-Nubuwwah lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 5, pp. 381)

Similarly, a woman whose name was Umm-e-Ma’bad, has excellently described the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She said: I have seen such a person whose beauty was prominent, whose face was beautiful and creation was very nice; he is very handsome and extremely good-looking; his eyes were dark and big, eyelashes long; his voice was resonant, neck shining, and thick beard. Both eyebrows were thin and touching each other. His blessed height was also medium, neither very tall which seems bad nor so short that looks insignificant. If he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was seen from a long distance, he would look very awesome and handsome and when seen from a short distance, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would look far more handsome and good-looking. (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 3, pp. 244)

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحباصدمرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ!, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed such a great and nice beauty upon His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that if someone would see him once he used to be captivated by seeing him . Remember! There is no one equal to him in his character as well his blessed appearance. There are people with whom if we

have our relation up to greetings, we find them very pious and good-mannered, but when we have business activities with them or develop relationship with them, we know about their real attitudes and qualities, we realize how pious and good-mannered they are. However, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not like them. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had perfect manners with all whether the younger or the elder, man or woman, the old or the young, a master or a servant. In short, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would treat all of them well. The good treatment of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was such that people would praise him after getting impressed. Being impressed by his good manners, the strangers would develop the feeling of friendliness. Those who were not close to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also called him Sadiq and Ameen; the non-Muslims who would have business activities with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would embrace Islam after being impressed with his good manners. If those, who would trade with him, were Muslims, they would strengthen their faith. They would get ready even to sacrifice their lives for the sake of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

But if we ponder over our everyday matters, we reveal that our family members, neighbours and relatives do not trust us. They feel hesitant about trading with us, about other types of work and matters. Why is it so? It is because we have bad habits like bad manners, arrogance and we quarrel over trivial matters. Therefore whenever we have any kind of dealing with someone else, we should try to treat him well because good manner is a very beautiful and nice attribute due to which even a stranger becomes a friend. By virtue of good manners even a non-Muslim embraces Islam and becomes a Muslim. The one who is good mannered is given respect in the society.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with the treasure of good manners!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

VCD Ijtima—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the beauty of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is unique. There is no one equal to his blessed character as well his blessed

appearance. In order to get such beautiful information about the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم associate yourself with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of d evotees of Rasool. ‘Attending VCD Ijtima’ is one of the 12 weekly Madani activities . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one can be blessed with good company by virtue of VCD Ijtima. By attending VCD Ijtima one can get the reward for attending the gathering of knowledge. In VCD Ijtima, the Sunnah of saying Salam and shaking hands with Muslims are performed. Through VCD Ijtima, one can get the opportunity to gain Islamic knowledge, gaining Islamic knowledge has many blessings. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you pass by the flower-beds of Paradise, pick a lot from them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What are the flower-beds of Paradise? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Gatherings of knowledge. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 78, Hadees 11158)

For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable.

Associated with Dawat-e-Islami!

A responsible Islamic brother of Umar Kot, Babul Islam (Sindh) gave a university student a VCD ‘Highlights of Dawat-e-Islami’, released by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba tul Madinah. Having watched the VCD he got very impressed and started saying to Islamic brothers: I thought that few Islamic brothers from Umar Kot are in Dawat-e-Islami, but after watching this VCD I have realized that your movement, Dawat-e-Islami is working in many countries of the world. Further, he played the VCD on cable in the village so that other people of the village could see the glory and great progress of Dawat-e-Islami themselves. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that Islamic brother repented of his sins and associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Now he is the member of Majlis Rabita (of Dawat-e-Islami). He has also intended to do Dars-e-Nizami from Jami’a-tul-Madinah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! No one is equal to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in beauty, perfection and capability. Blessed Mahaddiseen have described

the beauty of blessed body parts in their own manners. It is beyond us to describe the beauty, attributes and marvels of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم altogether, but we can get our names recorded in the list of those who do the Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by listening to something about the beauty of few of his blessed body parts in order to increase devotion to him in our hearts and to attain the blessings from his Zikr-e-Khayr. For example, how was his blessed face? How were his blessed eyes? How was his blessed forehead and blessed ears? How beautiful were his cheeks? Let’s first of all listen to something about his luminous face.

Blessed face

The blessed face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had luminosities and Tajalliyaat all the time. By virtue of the blessing of his blessed face darkness converted into luminance.

Even lost needle is found when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiles

Sayyidatuna ‘Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was sewing something at Sahari, suddenly the needle dropped from her hand and the oil lamp also blew out. At the same time, the Ghayb-knowing Rasool, the Embodiment of Noor صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered home, so the entire home became bright with the Noor of the luminous face and the lost needle was also found.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 302)

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly said: Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Your blessed face is very bright. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ وَیْلٌ لِّمَنْ لَّا یَرَانِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ ’ i.e. Destruction is for the one who will not be able to see me on the Judgment Day. It was humbly asked: Who is he that will not be able to see you on the Judgement Day? It was replied: He is stingy. It was asked: Who is stingy? The reply was made: ‘ اَلَّذِیْ لَا یُصَلِّیْ عَلَیَّ اِذْ سَمِعَ بِاِسْمِیْ ’ The one who did not recite Salat upon me after hearing my name. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 302)

سُوزَنِ گُمشُدہ ملتی ہے تبسُّم سے ترے شام کو صُبح بناتا ہے اُجالا تیرا

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحباصدمرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed eyes

The blessed eyes of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were large and wore kohl (Surmah) naturally. Eyelashes were long. The whiteness of eyes contained thin red lines. Whoever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would see with his blessed eyes, fortune would smile on him.

When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sees someone with mercy

Stating the parable of his conversion to Islam Sayyiduna Shaybah Bin Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم participated in the battle of Hunayn, a thought crossed my mind that Sayyiduna Ali and Sayyiduna Hamzah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا had killed my father and uncle, so why should I not martyr their Nabi as a revenge. With this intention, I approached the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and I was about to attack him that a flame of fire came towards me extremely fast. Feeling terrified of it I ran back. In the meantime, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a merciful look at me and said: O Shaybah! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then placed his blessed hand on my chest. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ drove Satan out of my heart and I raised my eyes to the blessed face of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became more dear to me than my own hearing and vision. (Dalail-ul-Nubuwwah La-Bi Na’eem, vol. 1, pp. 112, Raqam 144)

رخ جدھر ہو گیا زندگی پاگیا جس طرف اُٹھ گئی دَم میں دَم آ گیا

اس نگاہ عنایت پہ لاکھوں سلام

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحباصدمرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed eyebrows

The blessed eyebrows of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were long and thin and from the middle both were so close to each other that from a distance it seemed as if they had been connected to each other. Sayyiduna Hind Bin Abi Hala رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: There was a vein between both eyebrows that would swell when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would become angry.

(Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 22, Hadees. 7)

جن کے سجدے کو مَحرابِ کعبہ جُھکی ان بھووں کی لطافت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Blessed nose

The blessed nose of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was beautiful and high in the middle on which a Noor would shine. The one who did not see it carefully would think that the blessed nose of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was high, though his blessed nose was not high. High was the Noor that surrounded it. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 22, Hadees 7)

بینی ِ پُرنُور پر رَخْشاں ہے بُکَّہ نُور کا ہے لِواءُالْحَمْد پر اُڑتا پَھریرا نُور کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed forehead

The blessed forehead of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was wide and would shine like a lamp. Sayyiduna Hassaan Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

مَتٰي يَبۡدُ فِيۡ اللَّيۡلِ الۡبَهِيۡمِ جَبِيۡنُهُ

بَلَجَ مِثۡلَ مِصۡبَاحِ الدُّجَي الۡمُتَوَقِّدٖ

i.e. in the darkness of the night, when the forehead of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم appeared, it would shine like a lamp that is lit in the darkness. (Sharh Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 5, pp. 278)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

جس کے ماتھے شَفاعت کا سہرا رہا

اس جبینِ سَعادَت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

On the Day of Judgement, everyone will become selfish and no one will be concerned about another’s safety, health, or comfort. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will have the honour of making intercession. Then why should we not offer millions of Salat and Salam of love to the blessed forehead of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because of whom we are being blessed here and we will also be blessed there. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1020)

Blessed saliva

The blessed saliva of the blessed mouth of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was extremely fragrant and aromatic. If a sad person attained its blessing, his sorrow would turn into happiness; if it is applied to any part of the body, that part of the body would become fragrant; if an injured and ill person used the blessed saliva, he would be cured. Sayyiduna Sahal Bin Sa’ad رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that on the day of the conquest of Khyber, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I will give this flag to the person through whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will bestow the victory. He loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم love him. The narrator said: The blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ spent that night very restlessly thinking about the fortunate person to whom the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give the flag. Next morning, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: Where is Ali Ibn-e-Taalib? The Blessed companions humbly replied: Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He is suffering from an eye disease. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Bring him to me. When Sayyiduna

Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم applied his blessed saliva to his eyes and made Du’a for him. By virtue of its blessing his eyes immediately recovered and recovered so well that it seemed as if he had never had any eye disease. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1007, Hadees 6223)

جس کے پانی سے شاداب جان وجِناں اس دَہن کی طَراوت پہ لاکھوں سلام

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحباصدمرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed hands

The blessed arms and palms of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were fleshy. His blessed wrists and fingers were long and the backs of the blessed palms were wide. The blessed fingers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم seemed to be the branches of silver. His blessed palms were softer than silk and would remain fragrant like the palms of fragrance sellers whether he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم touched the fragrance or not. The person who shook hands with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have fragrance in his hands throughout the day and the child upon whose head the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم moved his blessed hand would be recognized amongst other children due to the fragrance emanating from his head. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 263)

Things getting the blessed touch of the blessed hands of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would suffice many Companions. Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: On the day of Hudaybiyah, we felt thirsty because our water had run out. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: What happened? The people humbly replied that they had no water for drinking and performing Wudu. At that time, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had as much water in a pot as can be stored in a lota (ewer). The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم placed his blessed hand in the pot, so the springs of water emerged from the blessed fingers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We all drank water from it and also

performed Wudu. Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked: How many people were there at that time? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: 1500 people were there. He further said: If we had been 100,000 people, even then that water would have sufficed us. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 493, Hadees 3576)

انگلیاں ہیں فیض پر ٹوٹے ہیں پیاسے جھوم کر ندیاں پنج آب رحمت کی ہیں جاری واہ واہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed feet

Both the blessed feet of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were fleshy and beautiful. No one ever had such feet. They were so soft and clean that water did not stay on them, but rather instantly flow down. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 276) Anything, his blessed feet touched, would become blessed; when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would walk on stones, the stones would become soft so that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could pass over them with ease; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would walk on the sand, it did not have the footprint of his blessed feet. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 277)

گورے گورے پاؤں چمکا دو خُدا کے واسطے

نور کا تڑکا ہو پیارے گور کی شب تار ہے

Giving us the description of the beauty of the blessed foot, Sayyidatuna Maymuna Bint-e-Kardam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sitting on a she camel in Makkah. At that time, I was with my father. My father approached the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and held the blessed feet. Sayyidatuna Maymuna رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا further said:‘ فَمَا نَسِيتُ فِيمَا نَسِيتُ طُولَ اُصْبُعِ قَدَمِهِ السَّبَّابَةِ عَلَى سَائِرِ اَصَابِعِهِ ’ I have forgotten many things, but cannot forget this thing that the blessed toe next to the big toe was longer than other toes (in beauty and elegance). (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 10, pp. 301)

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحباصدمرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفیٰ مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to book, ‘Seerat-e-Rasool-e-Arabi’

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely useful to study ‘Seerat-e-Rasool-e-Arabi’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, to get further information about the virtues, marvels and beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains the events of declaration of Prophethood and the events before and after migration, the powers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the circumstances of his childhood and family and the events of battles, Prophetic miracles about non-living things, plants (trees, etc), and also animals and Jinns, etc. All these topics have been mentioned in an extremely nice manner. So buy this book today from the stalls of Maktaba tul Madinah and not only read it yourself, but also persuade other Islamic brothers to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Dear Islamic brothers! The Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم beauty and the bright and luminous face were so outstanding that people, from far and wide, would come to see him and go back after converting to Islam. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given respect to the whole universe by virtue of his blessed presence and adorned the whole universe with his beauty. That is why the blessed Noor of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is shining throughout the world. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the whole universe fragrant with the fragrance of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Just ponder! When it is the state of the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so what would be the state of his own personality? We arrange gatherings to hear about the beauty of Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and chant slogans of مرحبا یا مصطفے, but unfortunately, we avoid his blessed sayings and copy non-Muslims, adopt new fashions after giving up Sunnah-conforming dress, miss Salah, which is the coolness of the blessed eyes of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, do not grow beard, do not obey

parents and do not treat our relatives well, waste our lives in watching films, dramas, listening to songs and music and performing many other non-Shar’i acts. Is it devotion to Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Following the footsteps of the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ we should obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should not even go near the acts which are forbidden for us and should not delay at all in performing the acts for which we are commanded to perform because it is Wajib for a Muslim to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In Ayah 1 of Surah Al-Anfaal part 9, it is stated:

وَ اَطِیْعُوا اللّٰهَ وَ رَسُوْلَهٗۤ اِنْ كُنْتُمْ مُّؤْمِنِیْنَ(۱)

And obey Allah and His Noble Messenger, if you have faith

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 1)

Dear Islamic brothers! Therefore we should obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at all cost and spend our lives in accordance with the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم strictly, for it is the only means of our salvation. Let’s listen to two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ اَطَاعَنِیْ دَخَلَ الْجَنَّۃَ وَ مَنْ عَصَانِیْ فَقَدْ اَبیٰ ’ i.e. The one who obeys my command will enter Paradise and the one who disobeys me becomes a denier. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 499, Hadees 7280)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: No one amongst you can become a (perfect) believer until his desire becomes obedient to what I have brought. (Mishkat-ul-Masabeeh, vol. 1, pp. 54, Hadees 167)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that obedience to Rasool leads to Paradise. Remember! Obedience includes everything we have been commanded to avoid (so to avoid them is obedience) and it also includes the acts for which we have been commanded to perform. For example, it is necessary to offer Salah and perform other righteous acts. Similarly, it is also

compulsory to abstain from sins like untruth, backbiting, etc. But unfortunately! Nowadays Muslims are Muslims by names only. Neither is any sign of Islam seen in their character, nor any glimpse of the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed manners seen in their manners.

Tense relations and quarrels are becoming very common; Sunnahs are being made fun of; neither does the son recognize the value of father, nor daughter of mother. Wherever we see, we see non-practising, depravity and the terrible scenes of violating Sunnahs. Remember! One day death will approach us and we will be buried in the grave and then we have to account for our deeds in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Judgement Day. The question will be asked: In what activities did you spend your life? Then the second question will be asked: In what activities did you spend your youth? O my young Islamic brothers especially you! What answer shall we give that time in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Shall we answer O Malik! I spent my youth sitting in the streets, neighbourhoods and roundabouts uselessly or I wasted my youth on being occupied with useless things on social media the whole night. Just ponder! If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم turns his blessed face from us on the Judgement Day due to these bad acts, then who will help us? Who shall we ask for intercession except him? Let’s together make an intention that we will not miss any Salah from now onwards. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Neither shall we get our beard trimmed, nor reduced it less than a fist. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will wear dress and green Imamah [on our heads] as per Sunnah. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ We will refrain from disobeying parents. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We will treat our siblings and other relatives well. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ save us from being disgraced in front of all the people gathered on the Judgement Day! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to live our lives in obedience to Him and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because the fortunate person, who spends his youth performing acts of worship and spiritual exercises, reciting the Holy Quran, presenting call towards righteousness, looking after his old parents, will be blessed with favours and honours from the Divine court. Therefore, considering the life precious, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to avoid the company

of bad friends, repent of sins and remain steadfast in performing virtuous deeds. Travel with Madani Qafilahs in the company of devotees of Rasool and become the one who presents the call towards righteousness and prevents from sins. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ not only will you succeed in the world, but also in the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Shoba e Taleem (Education Department)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Not only is Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, motivating Muslims to perform righteous activities throughout the world, but it has also established Education Department in order to present the call towards righteousness to the people who are associated with government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutions. The main aim of this department is to give the people of these departments the mind-set of living their lives as per Sunnah by associating themselves to Dawat-e-Islami. With good intentions, this Majlis establishes its relation with the teachers and students of colleges and universities in order to introduce them to the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Further, it tries its best to give them religious and moral education by issuing the booklets of Madani In’amaat in educational institutions and establishing Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) in hostels. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, until now, countless non-practising students have repented of their sins and started offering Salah regularly and acting upon Sunnahs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable all the Majalis of Dawat-e-Islami prosper by leaps and bounds!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

دعوتِ اسلامی کی قیُّوم دونوں جہاں میں مچ جائے دھوم

اس پہ فدا ہو بچہ بچہ یا اللہ! میری جھولی بھر دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech!

In today’s speech, we have heard about the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For example, we have heard:

The beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was unique.

The blessed teeth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were gleaming and blessed hair was beautifully curved.

The blessed face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was brighter than the moon and the sun.

Seeing the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم restless people would get comfort.

Seeing the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم people would recite Kalimah.

Describing the beauty of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the practice of the blessed companions and pious predecessors.

Not only was the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the most handsome, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also good mannered, the embodiment of humbleness, and the one who would love children, help the poor and satisfy the needs of the afflicted and the helpless. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the true love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

12 Madani pearls of conversation

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before them.

3. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

4. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a newborn baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

5. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

6. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

7. Do not laugh while talking. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never laughed.

8. Excessive talking and frequent laughing affect one’s prestige.

9. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When you see someone blessed with disinterest in the world and (the attribute of) speaking less, adopt his nearness and company, as Hikmah (wisdom) is given to him.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, pp. 422, vol. 4, Hadees 4101)

10. A blessed Hadees says, ‘The one remaining silent received salvation.’

(Jami’ Tirmiżi, pp. 225, vol. 4, Hadees 2509)

Mirat-ul-Manajih states: Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی states, ‘There are four kinds of conversations: (1) completely harmful, (2) completely beneficial, (3) either beneficial or harmful, (4) neither harmful nor beneficial. It is necessary to abstain from the completely

harmful; do speak if the conversation is completely beneficial. If the conversation falls in the third category then be cautious. It is however, better to abstain from it; one should not waste time in this type of conversation. It is difficult to differentiate between the fourth type, so remaining silent is better.’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 464)

1. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

2. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haram, (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) and Heaven is Haram on the one engaged in indecent speech. (Kitab-us-Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Raqm 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

