اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Pious Saints

وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ

وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me, his Salat reaches me; I make Istighfar for him, and besides this, 10 virtues are written for him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

ذِکر و دُرُود ہر گھڑی وِردِ زَباں رہے

میری فُضُول گوئی کی عادَت نکال دو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Pious saints are the most sacred personages upon whom mountains send peace. Beasts are also well acquainted with pious saints. Animals attain blessings from pious saints. Trees also attain closeness to pious saints. Satan does not go near the pious saints. Pious saints do not even bother to see the treasures of this world. The mountains on which pious saints put their blessed feet, feel proud of themselves over other mountains. When pious saints depart this world, the people feel sad about their demise. They will live in the palaces of Paradise. They will stroll in the gardens of Paradise. They will enjoy the ride of wonderful vehicles of Paradise. Pious saints will listen to the Divine Kalam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in Paradise and will also be privileged to see Him. (Hikayatayn aur Nasihatayn, pp. 138)

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today we will have the privilege to listen to faith-refreshing events and parables consisting of the blessings of pious saints. Let’s, first of all, listen to a parable consisting of the blessings of a famous female pious saint, Sayyidatuna Rabia Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا, but before this let’s listen to her introduction.

Who was Sayyidatuna Rabia Basriyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا ?

It is stated on page 39 of ‘Monthly Faizan-e-Madinah’: Sayyidatuna Rabia Basriyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا was a devoted worshipper, ascetic, pious and Allah-fearing woman. She would fast in the day and recite the Holy Quran. If somebody talked about Hell in front of her, she would fall unconscious out of Divine fear. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 541) She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا performed Hajj of sacred Baytullah barefooted and that too on foot. As she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا reached sacred Kabah, she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا fell-over unconscious (out of awe and fear). (Al-Rauz-u-Faiq, pp. 60) She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would perform intense worship and spiritual exercises. If she felt sleepy, she would walk inside the home and would say to herself: Rabia! Is it a sleep, what joy does it bring? Leave it and sleep in the grave joyfully for a long time. Today you are not much sleepy, but you will feel much sleepy in the upcoming night. Take courage and please your Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ . She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا spent 50 years in a way that she neither lay on the bed, nor kept her head on the pillow. And she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا passed away in this state. (Hikayat-u-Saliheen, pp. 40)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with the yearning for worship for her sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Thief became pious saint:

It has been narrated: One night, a thief entered the home of Sayyidatuna Rabia Basriyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا He searched every inch of the home and found nothing except a Lota (ewer). When he intended to leave the home, she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا said: If you are a clever thief, do not leave this home without taking anything. He said: I did not find anything. She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا replied: O poor man! Enter the room after making Wudu with this Lota and offer two Rak’aat Salah. Leave this home after getting something. He made Wudu as she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا directed and stood to offer Salah. When he stood for Salah, Sayyidatuna Rabia رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا made Du’a like this: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This person came to me, but found nothing. Now I have persuaded him to stand in Your Divine court. Do not let him be deprived of Your grace and favours. When he finished Salah, he found great delight in worship. Hence, he continued to offer Salah until the last part of the night. When the time of Sahri approached, she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا found him scolding his own Nafs in the state of prostration and saying: When my merciful Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ will ask me: Did you not feel ashamed of disobeying Me? You kept hiding sins from My creation and now with loads of sins you are here before Me. When He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will inflict wrath on me and get me away from His mercy, so what will I answer at that time? She رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا asked him: O brother! How did you spend the night? He replied: I spent the night well. I kept standing in the Divine court of my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ humbly. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ reformed me, accepted my excuses, forgave my sins and helped me achieve my desired destination. That person then left in astonishment and bewilderment. Sayyiduna Rabia Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا raised her hands towards the sky and humbly said: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This person stood in Your court for a moment, and You have accepted him and I have been standing in Your court for such a long time, so have You also accepted me? All of a sudden, she heard this voice from the ears of her heart: O Rabia! We have accepted him for your sake and also granted him Our closeness for your sake. (Al-Rauz-u-Faiq, pp. 159)

مَحَبَّت میں اپنی گُما یااِلٰہی نہ پاؤں میں اپنا پَتا یااِلٰہی

رہُوں مَسْت و بے خُود میں تیری وِلا میں پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یااِلٰہی

مِرے دِل سے دُنیا کی چاہت مِٹا کر کر اُلْفَت میں اپنی فَنا یااِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you heard, how great blessings the closeness to pious saints have! The one who attends their blessed court never returns back empty-handed, rather he gets his desires and wishes fulfilled and attains many blessings. Even if a thief goes to their blessed court, he also succeeds in attaining the blessing of their company, and then he no longer remains a thief, but rather Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him for the sake of His عَزَّوَجَلَّ chosen bondmen, splendid blessings like regret over sins, Salah, piety, abstinence, true repentance and ability to perform virtuous deeds. Therefore we should also request them with due reverence to make Du’a for the protection of our faith and pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, instead of worldly purposes because the existence of pious saints and their company bring about mercy for the creation. Their Du’as are very effective and merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes our troubles and bestows mercy on us for their sake.

In his book, ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat’, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, ‘Without doubt, the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ الـسَّلَام were the ‘Awtād ’ of the earth. When the succession of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ الـسَّلَام ended, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made a group of people from the Ummah of Ahmad as their deputy who are called ‘Abdāl’ [ رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی ]. These pious people were not superior to others because of their abundant fasts, Salah, and glorification of their Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but rather they were superior because of their good manners, high and true level of piety, righteous intentions, protection of their heart from the hatred towards Muslims, forbearance, patience and wisdom for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, humility without weakness, and because of their well-wishing towards all Muslims. Thus they are the deputies to blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ الـسَّلَام .

They are the group of people whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has chosen for Himself, His knowledge and His pleasure. They are forty Ṣ iddīqīn. 30 of them are such

whose trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is similar to the trust of Sayyidunā Ibrāĥīm عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . Through their sake, living beings are prevented from calamities and troubles are removed from people; rain also falls and sustenance is provided by their sake. The death only befalls on any of them when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ appoints another as his successor. They do not curse anyone, and nor do they cause inconvenience to their subordinates. They do not oppress their subordinates, and nor do they consider them (subordinates) to be inferior. Further, they are not jealous of those who are superior to them, and nor do they feel greedy for worldly things. They do not remain silent to show off, and nor are they arrogant. They do not become humble to show off.

They are the nicest people to talk to and are more ascetic when it comes to controlling Nafs . They are by nature generous. They always protect themselves from all such acts which were disliked by pious predecessors. They do not change such as one day they are engrossed with the Divine fear and the next day they are totally heedless, but rather they always remain unchanged.

They have a special [spiritual] link to their Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Neither the windstorm nor the fastest horses can catch up to them. Their hearts rise enthusiastically towards the sky for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ Sayyidunā Abū Dardā رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ then recited Ayah 22 of Surah Al-Mujadallat, part 28:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ حِزْبُ اللّٰهِؕ-اَلَاۤ اِنَّ حِزْبَ اللّٰهِ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُوْنَ۠(۲۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: This is the fold of Allah. Do you hear? The fold of Allah is successful. (Part 28, Surah Al-Mujadalah, Ayah 22)

In Wasael-e-Bakhshish Aashiq-e-Ghaus-o-Raza, Baani-e-Dawat-e-Islami, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has mentioned:

مجھ کو اللہ سے مَحَبَّت ہے

جس کو سَرکار سے مَحَبَّت ہے

آل و اَصحاب سے مَحَبَّت ہے یہ اُسی کی عطا و رَحمت ہے

اُس کی بخشش کی یہ ضمانت ہے

اور سب اَوْلِیا سے اُلْفَت ہے

(وسائلِ بخشش مُرمّم،ص ۶۸۴)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Pious saints do not care for worldly possessions, posts and desire for fame. Pious saints are the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Pious saints are the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Pious saints always live a simple life instead of living a luxurious and comfortable life. Pious saints follow Shariyya strictly. Pious saints clean the inner self of the people. Pious saints connect the bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and also make them the beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One can make his world and the Hereafter better by having the company of pious saints and attain abundant goodness. Pious saints are not afraid of anyone except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Despite being pious and abstinent, pious saints remain frightened of the fear of Hell. Pious saints always remain busy with Divine worship. Pious saints fulfil the needs of the creation. Pious saints get the knowledge of Ghaib (unseen) by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Pious saints are aware of the conditions of the hearts. Pious saints even make a person deserving of Heavenly palace in the world. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing saintly miracle of a Majzoob pious saint, Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and develop devotion towards the pious saints.

Permit of a Heavenly palace:

Zubaida Khatoon, the wife of Caliph Haroon Rasheed, was a pious woman who had great love and devotion to pious predecessors. Once she was going somewhere with her maidservants. During the journey, she saw in a valley that Sultanul Ashiqeen Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was making something with the pieces of stone. She got off the riding-animal and went to Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and stood there respectfully, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَ did not pay any attention to her. Mustering courage, Zubaida Khatoon asked: Your honour, what are you making? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied that he was making a Heavenly palace. Zubaida Khatoon asked a question again. Will you sell this Heavenly palace to me? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I will definitely sell it! Having heard this answer she was over the moon. In the same hopeful tone, she asked again: At what price? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: For one Dirham.

Listening to the reply Zubaida Khatoon paid the price immediately. After receiving the price Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه picked up a stick and said drawing a line around a small clay house: ‘I have sold this Heavenly palace to Zubaida Khatoon for one Dirham.’ Having heard this, Zubaida Khatoon became happy with this assurance that she had got the permit of Paradise in her life. After receiving this good news Zubaida Khatoon went to the royal palace. It was the last part of the night; she finished Tahajjud Salah and Munaja’at (Supplications) and was just about to lie on her bed, suddenly Haroon Rasheed came and started saying to Zubaida Khatoon: Today when I lay on bed after offering Tahajjud Salah, I fell asleep and then what I saw was that I was moving about in a garden. I was informed upon asking that it was ‘Janna tul Firdous’. I saw Zubaida Khatoon written in green colour on a door at a height. I entered the palace with this hope that perhaps my name would also be written. I travelled miles, but found only your name everywhere.

Haroon Rasheed asked Zubaida Khatoon about it, Zubaida Khatoon related the event that occurred the previous evening. Haroon Rasheed said: Take me to Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه too. Zubaida Khatoon took him to Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Like before Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was still busy making clay houses in a deserted area. Haroon Rasheed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said Salaam respectfully and asked about the price for a Heavenly palace. Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Its price is your entire kingdom. Feeling surprised Haroon Rasheed humbly said: Your honour! How did the price of Heavenly palace increase so much suddenly though you sold it to my wife for one Dirham? Giving the Ghaibi (unseen) news Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Zubaida Khatoon did not come to me after seeing Paradise, whereas you have come to me after viewing Paradise. Having heard this Haroon Rasheed started weeping and humbly said: Your honour, I am ready to pay its price by giving away my kingdom! Now give me the permit of Paradise! Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: What will I do with your kingdom! Your Kingdom does not even bear the value of least important things in my sight. Take your kingdom and the permit of Paradise as well. (Zulf-o-Zanjeer, pp. 251 - 260)

تَختِ سِکَنْدَرِی پر وہ تُھوکتے نہیں ہیں بِسْتَر لگا ہُوا ہے جِن کا تِری گَلی میں

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you heard the superior status of the sainthood of Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the Divine court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How elevated it was! If he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had wished, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could have accumulated plenty of treasure for himself and would have lived a comfortable and luxurious life. But may I be sacrificed for him! Despite having so much power he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not leave anything for himself, however, whoever he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would give a Heavenly palace out of magnificent Heavenly palaces from Paradise of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . From the abovementioned parable it has been understood that pious saints رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ attain the knowledge of Ghaib by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When Haroon Rasheed asked about the reason for increasing the price of Heavenly palace, giving the news of Ghaib Sayyiduna Bahlol Daana رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Zubaida Khatoon did not come to me after seeing Paradise, whereas you have come to me after viewing Paradise. One Madani pearl from this parable is that it is not necessary for a pious saint to publicise himself, wear prominent Jubba (robe) and Dastar (Turban), have a long queue of devotees through which his sainthood may be recognized and he becomes famous, but rather pious saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are found even among common bondmen. Therefore we should respect every righteous person because any one among them can be a hidden pious saint.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The inhabitants of Paradise are the ones who have dusty faces, scattered hair and wear old and torn clothes. They are not paid any attention. These are the people who are not given permission if they want to go to the kings; if they send a proposal of Nikah to women, they are refused. When they talk, they are not heard; their needs create panic in their hearts. These are Paradise-deserving people; if the Noor of anyone of them is distributed amongst all people on the Judgement Day, it will suffice all. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 332, Hadees 10486)

At another place it is stated: If many scattered-hair people who are kicked out from homes vow to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfils it (Muslim, pp. 1083, Hadees 2622) Elaborating on the part of the Hadees, ‘many scattered-hair people who are kicked out of homes’ Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The

blessed commandment does not mean that they go to the houses of worldly people and are kicked out of them. They do not go to the house of anyone, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It means that the world does not know about them. If they go to someone else, he does not like to meet them because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed them from the worldly people as Ruby (red-coloured diamond) is hidden in mountains or pearl is in the ocean so that people do not waste their (Saints) time. This blessed part of the Hadees (If they vow to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfils it) may have two meanings: One is that if the person vows to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and then asks for something such as O Lord! You have Qasam of Your Honour and Glory! Do it! Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ definitely does it. This is a firm determination of a bondman from his Lord. Secondly, if the person swears an oath on the Divine work of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and then informs people, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfils his oath. For example, if he says: I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You will be blessed with a son or I swear to my Lord! It will rain today. So Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does it in order to make his word true. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 7, pp. 58)

بِکھرے بال، آزُرْدَہ صُورت ہوتے ہیں کچھ اَہلِ مَحَبَّت

بَدْؔر مگر یہ شان ہے، اُن کی بات نہ ٹالے رَبُّ الْعِزَّت

Introduction to book, ‘Allah Walon ki Batain’ and booklet “Method of Ghusl”:

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to get more information about the glory and greatness of pious saints رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه it is very useful to study a book namely, ‘Allah Walon ki Batain’, consisting of 5 volumes, published by Maktaba tul Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains great events of the lives of many pious saints, their Saintly-miracles, their sayings, how they followed Sharai commandments, and their nice attributes in a beautiful and comprehensive manner.

One of the attributes of pious Saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی is that these personages like cleanliness and purification very much. Therefore, to persuade the importance of cleanliness and purification, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Hazrat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razawi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has written a very informative booklet on the

rulings of Ghusl (bath), namely “Method of Ghusl”. In this booklet, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has mentioned Method of Ghusl, Fards of Ghusl, 6 precautions for Islamic sisters, 5 reasons of Ghusl being Fard, precautions for using shower, Tayammum, Method of Tayammum and many other important rulings have been contained in this booklet. Hence not only study this book and booklet yourself, but also persuade others to do so. This book and booklet can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The topic of pious saints’ blessings and their saintly-miracles is very vast. Fortunate Muslims accept this fact that the blessings and saintly-miracles of these personages are true, but unwise people do not accept their blessings and saintly-miracles and fall prey to satanic thoughts. Such people persist on their condemnable habit until they see the blessings and saintly-miracles themselves. In spite of this, some people still fail to understand the elevated status of the Saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Thus, due to their egotism they keep themselves deprived of the blessings of pious saints. How beautifully our pious predecessors reform such people, can be understood in this faith-refreshing parable.

Deniers of Saintly miracles also admitted

Sayyiduna Jabir Rahbi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Most of the people in the city, Rahbah, would deny the saintly miracles. One day I entered Rahbah riding on a beast and asked: Where are the people who deny the saintly-miracles of pious saints? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Afterwards they stopped speaking ill of me. (Al-Rauz-u-Faiq, pp. 103)

محفوظ سدا رکھنا شہا! بے ادَبوں سے اور مجھ سے بھی سَرْزَد نہ کبھی بے ادَبی ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Blessings and saintly-miracles of pious saints have also been mentioned in the Holy Quran.

Out-of-season fruit

Sayyiduna Zakariyyah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was blessed with Nubuwat by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not have any child and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had gone very weak. He had desired for a son for years and many times he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ beseechingly for a son, but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had not been blessed with any son yet. When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw the saintly miracle of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا that out-of-season fruits would descend in the Mihrab (arch), at that time, this thought crossed his mind that when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyidatuna Maryam (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا) with out-of-season fruits in her Mihrab, He (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) is also capable of blessing me with an out-of-season fruit in the form of a child, though I have become very old and the season to produce the fruit of children have gone.

Therefore, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a in the mihrab of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا and his Du’a was heard. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with a son in his old age and Himself named him ‘Yahya’. Further, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also blessed his son with Nubuwwat (Ajaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, pp. 66) This event has been mentioned in the Holy Quran, Ayah 37 to 41 of Surah Al-e-Imran, part 3:

Saintly-miracles of Ashab-e-Kahf رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم:

Ashab-e-Kahf رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم are not Nabi, but rather the pious saints of Bani Israel. Their saintly miracle has been mentioned that they kept sleeping in a cave for 309 years. Their act of sleeping for such a long time without eating anything and remaining alive is a saintly miracle. It is stated in Ayah 18 of Surah Kahf, part 15:

وَ تَحْسَبُهُمْ اَیْقَاظًا وَّ هُمْ رُقُوْدٌ ﳓ وَّ نُقَلِّبُهُمْ ذَاتَ الْیَمِیْنِ وَ ذَاتَ الشِّمَالِ ﳓ وَ كَلْبُهُمْ بَاسِطٌ ذِرَاعَیْهِ بِالْوَصِیْدِؕ-

And you may think they are awake, whereas they are asleep; and We turn them over to the right and the left - and their dog is on the threshold of the cave, with its paws outstretched

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 15, Surah Al Kahf, Ayah 18)

In this blessed Ayah three saintly-miracles of Ashab-e-Kahf (who are pious saints) have been stated:

To sleep until now like staying awake (2) turning from side to side by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the earth’s act of not decomposing their bodies and their state of staying alive without any food (3) their dog’s act of lying until now is also their saintly-miracle, not of the dog. (‘Ilm-ul-Quran, pp. 188)

اللہُ غنی! شانِ وَلی! راج دِلوں پر دُنیا سے چلے جائیں حکومت نہیں جاتی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! How wonderful are the blessings of pious saints! They are the great personages whose character is like a clean mirror, who are always ready to guide people, whose hearts are filled with the passion to reform Ummah. They are the personages by virtue of the blessings of whose speeches, sayings and writings sinners and transgressors start acting upon the Holy Quran and Sunnah, whereas non-Muslims are also privileged to embrace Islam. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s crucial time, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is the great scholarly and spiritual personage of 15 th century who possesses the above-mentioned signs of perfect pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Let’s listen briefly to something about the blessings of this great perfect saint.

Blessings of Faizan-e-Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat:

Acting upon Sunnahs and Mustahab acts along with performing Fard and Wajib acts Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ presented call towards righteousness in a way that millions of Muslims especially the youth have been privileged to repent of their sins and have started acting upon the Holy Quran and Sunnah. Those, who were not offering Salah, have not only started offering Salah, but they have also become the Imam of Masjid; those who used to gaze at Na-Mahram women, have begun to practise the Sunnah of keeping their gaze lowered. Women habitual of going to the places of entertainment in attractive dress without veil, repented of their sins and

have started wearing Madani Burqa (a long black loose piece of clothing covering a woman from head to feet). Similarly those, who used to behave rude with their parents, have started respecting their parents; those, due to whose activities their neighbours were displeased, have become the apple of their eye in the whole area; thieves and robbers have started protecting the honour of others; those who were arrogant to the poor have become extremely humble; those who used to feel jealous all the time have begun praying for the success of other people; those who were fond of listening to songs have become habitual of listening to Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs; those who used to speak filthy language have started reciting Na'ats and started rejoicing and making others rejoice in the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; those who used to dream of seeing the beauty of European countries have become anxious and desirous to see the beauty of the Holy Ka’bah and Gumbad-e-Khazra (the Grand Green Dome of sacred Madinah). The people, who used to desire to accumulate wealth, have started thinking about the Hereafter; the people, who were habitual drinkers, have become devotees of Rasool; the people, who were wasting their time in useless activities, have started spending their time in worship; the people, who were fond of reading romantic and filthy novels and digests, have started studying the booklets and books of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat… and Maktaba tul Madinah and Monthly Faizan-e-Madinah. Similarly, the people who used to travel for pleasure have started traveling with Madani Qafilahs in the company of devotees of Rasool for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; the people whose aim of life was just to eat and enjoy life, have adopted the Madani mission, ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . These blessings of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ are not limited to only Muslims, but a large number of non-Muslims have also been blessed with the treasure of Islam. (Tazkirah-e-Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat (Episode 1) pp. 8 - 10)

The same blessings of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ are being reflected in a beautiful way in the couplets written by a devotee of Rasool.

مَسْلک کا تُو اِمام ہے اِلیاس قادِرِی تَدْبِیر تیری تام ہے اِلیاس قادِرِی

سُنّت کی خوشبؤوں سے زَمانہ مہک اُٹھا فَیْضان تیرا عام ہے اِلیاس قادِرِی

سَر پہ عِمامہ ماتھے پہ سجدوں کا نُور ہے جو بھی تیرا غُلام ہے اِلیاس قادِرِی

ہے دَعْوَتِ اِسلامی کی دُنیا میں دُھوم دھام مَقبول تیرا کام ہے اِلیاس قادِرِی

‘Weekly Madani Muzakirah’—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! How great the pious saint Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is that within a short period of time by virtue of his Madani Inama’at and Islamic services a wonderful Madani reformation has taken place in the society. Let’s also get associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain the blessings of faizan e Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and take part practically in 12 Madani activities. One of the 12 weekly Madani activities is ‘Madani Muzakara’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of blessing of watching and listening to Madani Muzakras one can get the mind-set of becoming cautious in Sharai matters.

By virtue of blessing of Madani Muzakras one can have the company of devotees of Rasool.

By virtue of Madani Muzakras one develops the passion for practice.

By virtue of Madani Muzakras one develops hatred towards sins.

By virtue of Madani Muzakras one becomes steadfast in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

By virtue of Madani Muzakras one gets the updates of ‘Dawat-e-Islami’, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool.

Madani Muzakra brings about progress of Islamic knowledge.

Madani Muzakra is the best source of getting Madani Tarbiyat from hundreds, rather thousands of experiences of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat’s life.

Not only does Madani Muzakara impart us Islamic knowledge, it also help build our moral character.

By virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakra one gains Islamic knowledge in the form of interesting answers to different questions asked from Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . How great the status of gaining and teaching Islamic knowledge is! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who learns one or two or three or four or five Kalimat [i.e. words] about the Faraaid [obligatory acts] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and memorizes them properly, and then teaches them to people will enter Paradise . (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 54, Hadees 20)

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, many Islamic brothers have repented of their sinful lives by virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakras. Let’s make intention right now that we will surely attend Madani Muzakras every week from beginning to end and will also invite other Islamic brothers to do so. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one will attain many blessings of it. Apart from weekly Madani Muzakras, Madani Muzakras are held on different occasions as well. For example, 10 Madani Muzakras of Muharam-ul-Haraam, 12 Madani Muzakaras of Rabiul Awwal, 11 Madani Muzakras of Rabi-ul-Akhir, 2 Madani Muzakras daily in the sacred month of Ramadan, 10 Madani Muzakras of Zul Hijjatil Haraam, etc. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one can get infinite blessings and goodness of the world and the Hereafter by attending these Madani Muzakras from beginning to end. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of watching Madani Muzakra and rejoice.

Got reformed through Madani Muzakira

It is commonplace that during our conversation these days, we are known to engage in backbiting without even realizing it. One brother, who was staying in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi), came from Bab-ul-Islam (Hyderabad) relayed this Madani parable in the presence of other Islamic brothers: One of my friends told me, ‘My sister is short-tempered and gets easily annoyed. If she gets upset with anyone, she does not come forward and greet them first. My sister and my sister-in-law had a confrontation on some issue and my sister stopped talking to her. Coincidentally that very evening on the channel loved by millions, the 100% Islamic channel run by Dawat-e-Islami – Madani Channel – a Silsilah (program) entitled ‘Madani Muzakarah’ was aired and the topic of discussion was on how to safeguard oneself from backbiting . After

watching the program (my angry sister who never compromised with anyone), not only approached my sister-in-law but also apologized for her mistakes and reconciled with her.’

گنہگارو آؤ، سِیَہ کارو آؤ گُناہوں کو دیگا چُھڑا مَدَنی ماحول

پِلا کر مئے عِشْق دیگا بنا یہ تمہیں عاشِقِ مُصْطَفٰے مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Usually when an ordinary person lives in the world, he can benefit others, but may I be sacrificed that the eminence and dignity of pious saints is so great that as long as these personages live in this mortal world, they benefit righteous people and sinners as well. When these people pass away and are laid to rest in their blessed shrines, people even get benefits from them and their shrines. By virtue of their closeness even the torment of grave is removed. In this regard, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable and rejoice.

Roses or mouths of pythons!

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I have heard Miyyan (Siraj-ul-‘Aarifeen Hazrat Sayyid Abul Hasan Ahmad Noori) Sahib Qiblah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying: Somewhere a grave got opened and the dead body became visible. It was seen that two twigs of rose clung around the body and two flowers of rose were placed on his nostrils. His relatives thought that the grave opened due to water, so they took the deceased to another place and buried him over there. They then saw that two pythons (two big snakes) clung around his body scratching his mouth with their expanded heads. They became bewildered and mentioned this incident to a pious man. He replied that the same pythons were also there, but since the dead person was close to a shrine of a pious saint, due to its blessing the torment turned to ‘mercy’. Those pythons turned to twigs of flowers and their expanded heads turned to flowers of rose. If you want to benefit this dead body, take it there and bury at the same place. The dead body was buried in the previous grave and then the same twigs of flower and the same flowers of rose were seen with the dead body. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hazrat)

کرم ہو واسِطہ کُل اَوْلِیا کا

مِرا اِیماں پہ مَوْلیٰ خاتِمَہ ہو

Majlis ‘Ushr and Surrounding Villages

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how blessed it is to attain the closeness to pious saints! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removed the torment of grave from a sinner, who attained the closeness to His pious saint, by turning his torment to His mercy. If you also want to attain the closeness to pious saint, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is busy propagating the call towards righteousness all over the world in approximately 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Ushr and surrounding villages’. The function of this Majlis is to persuade people to pay and collect Ushr for Dawat-e-Islami by mentioning the virtues of spending in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in weekly and other Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’at during the harvest season. The responsible Islamic brothers of this department, from time to time, contact farmers, landlords, the owners of orchards etc., by making individual efforts to receive Ushr from them. “Ijtima’at of Farmers” are also held. The booklet ‘Rulings on Ushar’ is also distributed to them in order to make their mind to pay Ushar. For information about ‘Ushar, landlords, in particular, must study the booklet ‘Rulings on Ushr’ and ‘ Sharai Precautions for Making Donations ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. They must seek Sharai guidance from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat about paying Zakah for their crops.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard that

One who goes to pious saints never returns empty-handed.

Calamities and troubles are removed from the inhabitants on the earth by virtue of pious saints.

The Du’as of pious saints are very effective.

The saintly-miracles of pious saints are proved by the Holy Quran.

Rain falls and sustenance is provided by virtue of the blessings of pious saints.

Pious saints get the knowledge of Ghayb (unseen) by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Salvation from the torment of grave is attained by virtue of the blessing of pious saints’ closeness.

By virtue of the blessings of the speeches, sayings and writings of pious saints, sinful people start acting upon the Holy Quran and Sunnah and non-Muslims are privileged to embrace Islam.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to follow in pious saints’ footsteps and be associated with them!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about applying oil and combing hair

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of applying oil and combing hair:

1. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would often oil the blessed head and comb the blessed beard and often put the cloth over blessed head, even that cloth used to remain dampened with oil. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 40,Hadees 32)

It has become obvious that the use of ‘Sarband [1] ’ is Sunnah, Islamic brothers should wear a small piece of cloth over their heads whenever they oil their heads, by this, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ cloth cap and turban will remain protected from the oiliness to a larger extent.

Sayyiduna Naafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا used to oil [his hair] twice a day. (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 6, pp. 117)

Before applying the oil, recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ) and pour some oil onto the palm of left hand out of the bottle etc., then first oil the eyebrow of right eye, then of left eye, then eyelashes of right eye, then of left eye, and then oil hair. If oiling beard, begin with the hair grown between lower lip and chin.

Women must hide the hairs that fall while combing or washing, so that no stranger (i.e. the person to whom Nikah is not Haraam forever) could see them. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 449)

Begin with the right side while combing. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهَا has said: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم liked to begin doing everything with the right side even wearing shoes, combing, and attaining purity. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 81, Hadees 168)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst

standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person

was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

