اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Biography of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah

Along with the excellence of ‘Asharah of Zul-Hijjah

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There will be no shade on the Day of Judgement except for th

e Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three persons will remain beneath the shade of the Divine throne. It was humbly asked, ‘O the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be those people?’ The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(1) The one who relieves the distress of my Ummati (follower) (2) the one who revives my Sunnah (3) and the one who recites Salat upon me abundantly.’ (Al-Budoor-us-Saafirah, pp. 131, Hadees 366)

یا الٰہی گرمیِ محشر سے جب بھڑکیں بدن

دامنِ مَحبُوب کی ٹھنڈی ہوا کا ساتھ ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Today is the 29 th night of the month of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam. The month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam is about to begin. The blessed ‘Urs of the disciple and caliph of A’la Hadrat, Shaykh-ul-Arab-o-‘Ajam, Qutb-e- Madinah, ‘Allamah Maulana Ziyauddin Ahmad Madani Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is celebrated on the 4 th of this month. In relation to this, today we will have the privilege of listening to some incidents of his blessed life. Let’s, first of all, listen to a parable.

The disciple and caliph of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Maulana ‘Aarif Ziyaee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Once in the days of Hajj there was a severe shortage of water in sacred Madinah. In the same days, a large number of guests used to come to Qutb-e-Madinah, that’s why water was used more than the regular use. Sometimes, it also happened that he did not have water even to drink. I used to get water from a place over there), and tried my best to keep some small tanks full of water all the time.

One day, Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Wudu, so his gaze fell on the small tanks of water. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked me: What is in these tanks? I humbly replied: Huzoor (your honour)! As there is a shortage of water, therefore water is stored in them so that guests may not face any problems if they come in the night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: It is not right; water is short and you have stored it; take it away now and give it to people. In those days, there were a large number of Hujjaj and the streets were also narrow. It was not easy to get water, but it was not possible either to refuse to disobey the order of Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Therefore, I did as I was ordered.

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 421, slightly modified)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned incident, it can be judged that Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a man who had complete trust

in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Just ponder! If there is even a little possibility of the arrival of guest at our homes, how do we do preparation? The items which may be used in very small quantity are brought in advance, so that no one can be bothered at the eleventh hour whereas the things, which are certainly to be used, are especially brought and water is something that is abundantly used. It should have happened that Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه should have been happy upon the saving of water for guests, and should have appreciated his disciple, but it is contrary to the thought of pious saints to store and preserve anything. That’s why he was ordered to distribute the water!

عاشقِ مُصطفٰے ضِیاءُ الدّین زاہد و پارسا ضِیاءُ الدّین

کیسے بھٹکوں گا میرے ہیں میرے رہبر و رہنما ضِیا ضِیاءُ الدّین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی not only used to have complete trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ themselves, but they also used to persuade others to do so. We should also develop the trait of having absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Alas! In today’s troublesome time, we have gone far away from having absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, though Islam greatly persuades us to have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Tawakkul means to trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and entrust your work to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It means that a person should trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in all sorts of work (not in bondmen). (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 141)

It should also be remembered that leaving the resources completely is not absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but rather Tawakkul means a person (while using the resources) should only trust the ‘ مُسَبِّبُ الْاَسْبَاب ’ (i.e., Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’

(Kimiya-e-Sa’adat, vol. 2, pp. 938)

The summary of the definition of absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is this that after using resources one should leave its result upon Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should ponder! Can we do it? Is absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ really found in us? Do we also trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after using our resources? Usually whenever we have to do something very important, we first of all do planning to carry out the task, then we follow every stage of the planning, now if the result is obtained against our will, how do we feel that time? To what extent do we lose our heart? To what extent do we get disappointed? Its main reason is this that after making plans we forget one thing that there is Someone Who is more Powerful than our planning. We forget this thing that it is our job to make plans and act according to the plans, but their results are under the Absolute Power of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that is, we get deprived of absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . That’s why if we do not get good results, we feel disappointed and lose our heart, though we should have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every task of ours. How dangerous can it be if absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ignored can be judged by the following parable:

A thief of shroud repented of his sins in front of Sayyiduna Ba-Yazeed Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Ba-Yazeed Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him about the graves, so he replied: I have stolen shrouds from almost 1,000 graves, in which I found the faces of all the deceased not towards Qiblah except the two. So he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: These people did not have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for their sustenance. That’s why their faces were turned away from the Qiblah in their graves. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 106)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a matter of thinking how dangerous it is to only consider resources everything rejecting complete trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, try to develop absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with absolute trust in Himself and enable us to perform all good deeds!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

تُو عَطا حِلم کی بھیک کر دے میرے اَخلاق بھی ٹھیک کر دے

تجھ کو فاروق کا واسِطہ ہے یا خُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

عِشقِ احمد میں آنسو بہاؤں حُبِّ دُنیا سے خُود کو بچاؤں

ایسی تَوفیق دے اِلتِجا ہے یاخُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We were listening to the blessed life of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه . His name is Ziyauddin Ahmad. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه himself used to say: My birth name was ‘Ahmad Mukhtar’. My paternal grandfather Shaykh Qutbuddeen Qaadiri named me ‘Ziyauddin’ later on. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه was born in 1877 (Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1294 AH) on Monday at a town ‘Kalaswala’ of district Ziyakot (Sialkot). (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 164)

He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه was a little taller than the average height, with a fair complexion and a man of awe-inspiring and attractive personality. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه had an oval face, broad and luminous forehead in the middle of which a thin vein always remained visible. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه had a prominent nose, dark, big and very bright eyes, long and thin eyebrows almost connected to each other, long and thick eyelashes, red and fleshy cheeks with a mole on the right, thick and curved beard equal to the length of a fist, long neck, broad chest, long fingers, fleshy and extremely soft palms.

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 567)

In short, he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه was extremely handsome and had attractive appearance.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received his early education from his paternal grandfather, then from a renowned Islamic scholar and ‘Aarif of Ziyakot (Sialkot) ‘Allamah

Maulana Muhammad Husayn Naqshbandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, then he went to Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore) and received education from great Islamic scholars of Markaz-ul-Awliya and then, under the supervision of famous Muhaddis, Islamic scholar ‘Allamah Maulana Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent approximately 4 years and acquired Islamic education.

Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: People used to go to Pilibhit from our Punjab to do Daurah Hadees. In Punjab, Shah Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great pious saint and I also went to him and attended Daurah Hadees. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 67)

I completed Daurah Hadees from Punjab and after completing Daura Hadees, received my degree. Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed the Dastar-Bandi of Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with his blessed hands. Later on, he was privileged to have Khilafat from Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 167)

The teacher of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah, Wasee Ahmad Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a great love for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to go to Bareilly every Thursday in order to meet A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and perform Friday Salah with him, and after having lunch etc. he used to return to Pilibhit. His two pupils along with Muhaddis Soorti also used to go to Bareilly. One of them was Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah has himself stated: It was the blessed habit of ‘Allamah Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that after offering Salat-uz-Zuhr and having lunch, at the time of ‘Asr he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would sit in the train that would go to Bareilly and would reach Bareilly before Maghrib. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would spend the day of Friday and the Friday night in the service of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have lunch after Friday Salah and then would return to Pilibhit. In this way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه continued to visit A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for more than 3 years.

During these visits, Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took the oath of spiritual allegiance from A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in 1314 AH and was granted

Khilafat by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in 1315 AH. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was only 21 years old that time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was number 11 amongst those who were granted Khilafat by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, 1/173)

Having completed arts and sciences (‘Uloom and Funoon) Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned to his country with A’la Hadrat’s permission. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed at ZiyaKot (Sialkot) for some time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had his property in ‘Kalaswala’ near Sialkot where he went and then began to travel to sacred Baghdad from ‘Kalaswala’. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 225)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه resided in Khanqah Mu’alla of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam, Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for nearly more than 9 years. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 226, 227) In the meantime, Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited many pious saints and attained blessings from them.

Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited blessed Arab in 1327 AH and then stayed in sacred Madinah forever. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, pp. 173)

When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived at sacred Madinah, Turks were ruling, that’s why many authentic Islamic scholars were present there. It was because of this he not only visited the blessed Raudah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم over and over again, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also privileged to attain the blessings of many Islamic scholars of sacred Madinah.

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 279)

Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also attained the blessings for a long time from a renowned devotee of Rasool and a great Islamic scholar, ‘Allamah Shaykh Yusuf Bin Isma’eel Nabhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who used to be present quite often in sacred Madinah. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 280)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great devotee of Islamic knowledge. Besides gaining Islamic knowledge from his own locality he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also travelled to Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore), India and blessed Baghdad. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to sacred Madinah, he remained occupied with Islamic knowledge and attained Islamic knowledge from many renowned Islamic scholars of his time as well.

Surely, it was the favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the bestowal of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the blessings of Islamic knowledge that despite being born at an unknown town of Ziyakot (Sialkot) he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became famous by the title ‘Qutb-e-Madinah’ across the world. We should also have the yearning for gaining Islamic knowledge because Islamic knowledge will only lead us to success in the world and the Hereafter both. Islamic knowledge is the collection of all virtues and makes its student the embodiment of many good qualities. Islamic knowledge is the inheritance of Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Islamic knowledge is the source of attaining closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Islamic knowledge is the method of developing fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Islamic knowledge is the source of guidance. Islamic knowledge is the means of protection from sins. Islamic knowledge is the tool of developing Divine fear. Islamic knowledge is the life of dead hearts. Islamic knowledge is the source of attaining the love of the creatures of Allah.

In short, Islamic knowledge is the collection of countless good qualities. A true Muslim should try to acquire it. The virtues of acquiring Islamic knowledge have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees at many places. Let’s have the privilege of listening to 2 blessed Ahadees about them:

1. The one who will gain Islamic knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remove his difficulties and will bestow sustenance upon him from the place which he has not thought about. (Jami’-ul-Bayan, pp. 66, Hadees 198)

1. The one who learns one or two or three or four or five Kalimat [i.e. words] related to the Faraaid of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and memorizes them properly, and then teaches them to others, will enter Paradise .’

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 54, Hadees 20)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed? Gaining Islamic knowledge is such a great act by virtue of which entrance to Paradise is guaranteed along with ease in difficulties and rise in sustenance. Therefore, we should also gain more and more Islamic knowledge. The Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is fragrant with the fragrance of Islamic knowledge. The Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Muzakarahs, different courses, Dars and speeches etc. which are arranged in it are all the sources of promoting Islamic knowledge. One of the best sources of acquiring Islamic knowledge is to travel with Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami as well. Therefore, travel regularly at least with a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month in the company of devotees of Rasool! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to spread Islamic knowledge and to act upon Sunnahs!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

لُوٹنے رحمتیں قافلے میں چلو! سیکھنے سُنَّتیں قافلے میں چلو!

علم حاصِل کرو جَہل زائل کرو پاؤ گے راحتیں قافلے میں چلو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Islamic knowledge has innumerable blessings. It is this knowledge that makes an ordinary person a great learned person. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ دَرَسْتُ الْعِلْمَ حَتّٰی صِرْتُ قُطُبًا ’ (i.e. I kept acquiring Dars of knowledge and attained the status of Qutbiyyat.) (Qasidah Ghausiyyah)

It is our good opinion that Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also a pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had the status of Qutbiyyat in Madinah Munawwarah, that’s why he was remembered all around the world by the title ‘Qutb-e-Madinah’ and even he is remembered by everyone today by the

same title. Why is he called Qutb-e-Madinah? How did he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attain this title? Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in relation to these questions:

In 1949, the paternal grandson of A’la Hadrat ‘Allamah Maulana Ibraheem Raza Khan Jeelani Miyan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه paid a visit to sacred Madinah. Upon his return he related this incident at his home in Bareilly: I was present in the native land of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Madina Munawwarah that one day, I visited Maulana Ziyauddin Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and then I paid a visit to blessed Muwajahah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and made Du’a: Huzoor! Enable me to meet the Qutb of Madinah Tayyibah by your favour! Jeelani Miyan then said: Afterwards I returned to my residence and saw Maulana Ziyauddin came as he used to leave his home very seldom that’s why I was extremely astonished to see him all of a sudden. I surprisingly asked: Hadrat! I have just met you, how then did you arrive instantly? Maulana Ziyauddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A thought suddenly entered my mind that I should meet you, because you have called me! After this he became quiet. Jeelani Miyan said: I have just submitted my request to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and I was privileged to meet Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . From this it has become obvious that Maulana Ziyauddin is the Qutb of Holy Madinah. Jeelani Miyan further said: If the respect and honour of the caliph of the person is this that he is the Qutb of sacred Madinah, so what will be the status and state of his spiritual guide, A’la Hadrat regarding the closeness to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 469)

تم کو قطبِ مدینہ یا مُرشِد! عُلماء نے کہا ضِیاءُ الدّین

مجھ کو اپنا بناؤ دِیوانہ واسطہ غوث کا ضِیاءُ الدّین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, after observing the ability of a pupil the vast knowledge of his teacher can be learnt. Similarly, after observing the status of the disciple the status of his spiritual guide can be learnt. When Qutb-e-Madinah is the Qutb of Madinah Munawwarah, how high will be the status and rank of his spiritual guide, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great saint and an Islamic scholar of his time. Now let’s listen to something about him for attaining its blessings.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life following Shari’ah. His personality was the reflection of Sunnahs in a real sense. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not used to laugh. At the time of yawning he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would press a finger between his teeth, making no sound. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never spat facing Qiblah, nor did he ever stretch his blessed legs towards Qiblah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer five-time Salah in the Masjid with Jama’at. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer mandatory (Fard) Salah wearing ‘Imamah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would avoid the use of iron pen. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use Miswak and have oil on his blessed head.

(Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 114)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use the right hand in taking and giving anything. If the person who stretched his left hand for taking something from him, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would instantly stop stretching his blessed hand and say: Take it from the right hand as Satan takes from the left hand. (Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 111)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would respect Masajid a lot; he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always enter a Masjid with his right foot first, whereas when exiting a Masjid he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه first of all would put his left foot on the upper part of the shoe and wore the right shoe in the right foot and then the left shoe in the left foot (so that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can act upon the Sunnah.)

One day, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه unexpectedly got a bit late from Fajr Salah, the Salah-offering persons were looking at his home over and over again that

he came hurriedly. In this state of haste he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه acted upon Sunnah like this: When his blessed foot reached the stair of the Masjid so it was the right foot he placed first, when his blessed foot reached the new and old floor of the Masjid, so it was the right foot he placed first. Ahead of it in the compound of the Masjid a row was made, when the blessed foot reached there, it was the right foot that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه placed first and likewise, he placed his right foot on every row first, even when he reached Musalla on Mihrab, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه placed his right foot first.

Dear Islamic brothers! From this incident it can be judged that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great follower of Sunnah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to perform every work as per Sunnah. We should also act upon Sunnahs in our daily routine, especially we should form the habit of starting every righteous and permissible work with right hand from the right side as greatness lies in acting upon Sunnahs.

In addition, we should spend simple life and become the embodiment of humbleness and humility. We should always be courteous to others, respect elders and become affectionate to the younger; we should treat well with our subordinates and should always help our Muslim brothers. In short, besides character, we should act upon Sunnah regarding our appearance as well. We should have a beard equal to the length of a fist, Sunnah-conforming hair and wearing ‘Imamah on the head. We should wear Madani dress as per Sunnah, meet people smilingly and make our mind to promote Salam; we should eat food in earthen pots on Dastar-Khuwan (a cloth on which food is served.). These acts not only will make our world better, but they will also benefit in the Hereafter. If we go through the life of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, we will learn that their daily routine was as per Sunnah. Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also the embodiment of Sunnahs and a very pious saint.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the man of extremely good attributes and manners, always occupied with the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used

to worship in the nights and offer Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and the Salah of Awwabeen. Instead of weakness and old age he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not give up the fasts of the days of Beez [i.e. the Nafl fasts observe on 13 th, 14 th & 15 th of every Islamic month]. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 486)

We should also form the habit of offering these Nawafil and observing Nafl fasts along with obligatory Salah. It is narrated about Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he felt great pain while sitting and standing, even then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not get anyone’s help when going to perform Wudu. Despite having difficulties he would stand on his own (and perform Wudu).

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 486)

Simplicity was his identity and habit; acting upon the Sunnah of Rasool, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reared goats and would entertain the guests of Rasool with their milk. His house was the abode for Hujjaj and Haj pilgrims.

(Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 488)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very famous in blessed Arab. His disciples and caliphs belonged to Arab and non-Arab both. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would hold very little conversation. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, pp. 489)

A gathering of Milad, which continued until his demise, used to be held regularly at his residence daily after Salat-ul-‘Isha. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 495) To extend Arab-like hospitality was his distinctive quality.

Three thermoses full of tea were always kept with him and the guests of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were offered tea from them. As one thermos got empty, it was sent to upstairs (home) which was returned after some time filled with tea. It continued the whole day; at night after giving Langer (distributing food) everyone was entertained with tea, then pointing out towards the thermoses he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would ask if there had been some tea in them. If there had been a little tea, it would have been humbly said: There is a little tea left in one thermos only. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would say: Give it to people bit by

bit, and then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked to check the fridge to distribute if there is something in it. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 422)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so unconcerned with the world that he would order to distribute even the necessary things from the fridge that belonged to his family members. (Sayyidi Ziyauddin Ahmad Al-Qaadiri, vol. 1, pp. 422)

Whoever came to him, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would receive that person as per his rank and status. His door was open to everyone and Dastar-Khuwan used to be spread for everyone. Whatever money he got, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would spend all of it; he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not save anything and would frequently spend on guests. (Anwar Qutb-e-Madinah, pp. 240)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very hospitable. It seems as if hospitality had become the part of his nature. He would extend hospitality to the person, who would come to his home, according to his status and rank. Hospitality is one of the acts leading to Jannah and it is the Sunnah of many Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام .

It is stated about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام that he would not eat meal until guests joined him at his Dastar-Khuwan. (‘Ajaaib al-Quran, pp. 376)

From this narration it can be judged that the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ like hospitality very much. Hospitality is a virtuous deed that not only brings abundant reward, but it also promotes love and strengthens relationship. Therefore, whenever a guest comes, extend hospitality to him according to your financial ability, because it is a deed that makes our Hereafter better along with the world.

Alas! Hospitality is something that is getting out of practice nowadays in our society. Now the kind of zeal and enthusiasm we used to see in the past cannot be seen. Nowadays it also happens that some people extend hospitality, but

they have set this standard that the amount of respect and hospitality they are extended by someone, the same they extend to them. In this way, an act of worship like hospitality has been made a saying ‘as you sow so shall you reap’. Hospitality is a nice act of worship, Sunnah of Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and an act of reward and excellence. Similarly, nowadays such people are also found who offer hospitality if they are offered hospitality, but if they are not offered hospitality, so they do not offer hospitality either. Such people should take advice from this blessed Hadees: Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Nafar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Once I humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Please tell me, I went to a person, he did not extend hospitality to me, now if he comes to me, so should I extend hospitality to him or should I do as he did? It was replied: No! Instead you extend hospitality to him!

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 405, Hadees 2013)

Likewise, it is also seen during hospitality in our society that the people who we may come into contact in future, especially those ones with whom some vested interest are attached are especially respected and hospitality is extended to such people, but the people, who do not come into our contact much or we have little to do with them, are not paid more attention, nor is more importance given to their hospitality. Regarding hospitality everyone should be treated according to their ranks and status and every guest should be treated with utmost respect.

Remember! There are different types of guests. Every one of them has their own rights and manners that should be taken into consideration. Some guests are of this type who visit us for a few hours and leave after taking tea, there is no need to do especial arrangement for them whereas some guests are of this type who we invite to any event or occasion of wedding ceremony, ‘Aqeeqah etc. At the time of feasts, the rich and poor both should be treated equally with the same arrangement without any distinction in food and respect. Lest the wealthy and influential people should be treated with special respect and comfort and to be served with excellent food, on the other hand, the poor are served with simple food. People should not be treated in this

way at all as deliberately treating one class in an inferior way causes to hurt their feelings.

Similarly, some guests such as siblings or near and dear ones who stay for few days on any special occasion to be shown warm and gracious hospitality. It is stated on page 391 of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and on the Day of Judgement, should serve his guest generously, should serve him a day and a night with high quality food as per his capacity. Serving feast [to guest] is for 3 days. (i.e., after first day he should serve with what is present in house) and what he will serve after that will be regarded as Sadaqah.

(Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Adab, Hadees 6137)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege us to adopt good traits and all virtuous deeds along with the quality of hospitality!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

واسطہ میرے پیر و مرشد کا مجھ کو تو متّقی بنا یا ربّ!

دل کا اجڑا چمن ہو پھر آباد کوئی ایسی ہوا چلا یا رب!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to about different parts of the blessed life of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . One of the important reasons behind talking and mentioning our pious predecessors is that we endeavour to mould ourselves into the practicing Muslims with good traits like them by listening to their blessed biographies, excellent character and their sacred lives.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه always pass on the teachings of showing utmost respect towards the pious predecessors, following

their footsteps and cultivating the excellent character to his disciples and followers. It is the result of his blessed teachings that a Majlis namely ‘Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya’ has been formed under the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami. Because, unfortunately, it has widely been observed that the people who visit Shrine show sheer carelessness towards performing Salah. Dawat-e-Islami is a movement of bringing people into the Masajid. In this Madani environment, this mind-set is inculcated that whether how tough is the situation, one must not miss his Salah. The purpose of this Majlis is to reform people who visit the shrines, to guide them, to persuade them to follow the footsteps of blessed saints, to stop evil practices being committed at many shrines, to visit the monasteries and mausoleums of the blessed saints and reform the people by carrying out the noble service of calling people towards righteousness.

Undoubtedly it is our good fortune that today we have listened to about a great saint of Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah Sufi order. We should also endeavour to be like them.

It will be extremely useful to study the booklet namely, ‘Sayyidi Qutb-e- Madinah’ published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah for gaining further information about his life. Therefore, buy this booklet today and study it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are fortunate that Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is the disciple and caliph of Qutb-e-Madinah. One of the ways to attain the blessing of Qutb-e-Madinah is to become the disciple of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . It will not only enable a person to attain the blessing of Qutb-e-Madinah, but he will also attain the blessing of great saints of the order of ‘Aaliyyah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah. There is no loss in becoming a disciple, but rather one will gain lots of blessings in both the worlds.

کیسے آقاؤں کا بندہ ہوں رضا

بول بالے مری سرکاروں کے

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه always acted upon Sunnahs. He not only acted upon Sunnah himself, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also advised his disciples to act upon the blessed Shari’ah, especially, he used to lay stress a lot on offering Salah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would quite often say: There is nothing without Salah. If someone asks him for advice, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would say: O son! Offer Salah! Hold Salah tightly! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would reform disciples and sincere people all the time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also lay stress on the correctness of beliefs and deeds. Seeing the poor in his company the memories of pious people used to be revived. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was by nature very humble.

On Friday, 4 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, 1401 AH (02-10-81), as the Muazzin of Masjid-un-Nabawi started call to prayer ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’, Sayyidi Qu t b-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited Kalimah and then departed this world ‘ اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّآ اِلَيۡهِ رٰجِعُوۡنَ ’.

Having given a bath, shroud was spread and under the blessed head of Qu t b-e- Madinah, the sacred dust of the blessed Hujrah-e-Maqsoorah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was kept. The blessed Ghussalah [the blessed water used for the Ghusl of the area around the luminous grave of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] and many other sacred relics were also kept. Then the blessed shroud was tied. The blessed bier was lifted after Salat-ul-‘Asr in the echoes of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and Qasidah Burdah.

‘Aashiq ka janazah hay zara dhoom say niklay

Mahboob ki galiyaun mayn zara ghoom kay niklay

Eventually, Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, according to his will, was buried in the presence of countless mourners at the place of Jannat-ul-Baqi’ where the Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are resting. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was

www

Click here to read

day of them is the equivalent of fasting a year, and standing every night of them [in prayer] is the equivalent of standing on the Night of Qadr.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 192, Hadees 758)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder over the blessings of the first 10 days of Zul-Hijjah. It is mentioned in the book Faizan-e-Sunnat (volume 1): According to some blessed Ahadees the first 10 days of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam are superior to all days except the month of Ramadan, or rather days are more superior to even Ramadan, but nights of Ramadan are superior. We should protect ourselves from spending these days in useless things and should spend them in worship; we should spend days in fast and nights in worship.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In the first 10 days of this month after Salat-ul-‘Isha Madani Muzakarah is broadcast live daily on Madani Channel in which Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه give Madani pearls of knowledge and wisdom by giving answers to the questions of the devotees of Rasool. If we attend Madani Muzakarahs, we can be protected from many sins and earn lots of virtues.

It is a Madani request for you to attend Madani Muzakarahs and also motivate other Islamic brothers to do so as well. Attending the Madani Muzakarah is also a weekly Madani activity that is one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Remember! Arranging Ijtima’aat of sound advice for the reformation of people with the intention of conveying Madani pearls full of knowledge and wisdom is a way of our blessed predecessors.

It is reported that Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhiyyuddin Sayyid ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also advised people for 40 years from 521 Hijri to 561 Hijri.

(Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 184)

Here is the summary of the account of an Islamic brother: A man (age around 37) from Tailwala area in Bahawalpur, Punjab [Pakistan] owned a mini-

cinema . He would run multiple shows daily. Hundreds of people would come to watch movies and fill their eyes with the hellfire. He would also rent out movies in VCDs and DVDs. Upon the persuasion of one Muballigh of Dawat-e-Islami, he started to occasionally show Madani Channel and he, himself, would also watch it.

After a few weeks on the 9 th of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, 1430 AH during the Sunnah-inspiring congregation in Yazman, in front of hundreds of Islamic brothers he declared that due to watching Madani Channel, fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ entered his heart and he repented from all his past sins. Further, he also announced that he had shut down his mini-cinema and had decided to pray Salah regularly and to grow a beard.

Furthermore, he also made intention to take part in the 10-day I’tikaf organized by Dawat-e-Islami, in the month of Ramadan . He also made Bay’at [pledged allegiance] into the Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah Silsilah (spiritual path) and became a Mureed [disciple] of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He also destroyed about Rs. 40,000 (US$ 485) worth of movies and turned his mini-cinema into a religious bookstore. There he started selling merchandise from Maktaba-tul-Madinah i.e. books, VCDs etc. and thus, started earning Halal income. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless him and us with steadfastness.

Dawat-e-Islami is a non-political global movement. Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has reached approximately 192 countries of the world and more than 100 departments have also been established to organize all Madani activities for the service of Islam. Expenses of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (for boys & girls), Madaris-ul-Madinah (for boys & girls), Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online (for boys & girls) and Madani Channel are not in millions but are in billions.

Those Islamic brothers who, after having privileged to become Haafiz begin to lead Taraweeh every year in hundreds of Ahl-us-Sunnah Masajid. In comparison to the last year (1436 AH corresponding to 2015) to the current year (1437 AH corresponding to 2016), numbers of Huffaz has

§ increased to approximately 5557, who got the privilege to lead Taraweeh so the total figure of Huffaz has reached approximately 18034.

§ Throughout Pakistan this year, 17317 new admissions in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic brothers and sisters) have been sought.

§ In the current year, 14554 Huffaz from Madrasa-tul-Madinah and approximately 3280 Huffaz from Jami’a-tul-Madinah have the privilege of leading Taraweeh.

§ Thousands of Islamic sisters are doing Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalimah) course in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters). Till writing of this content, 13548 Islamic sisters have been seeking Islamic education in 231 Jami’aat-ul- Madinah throughout Pakistan. Until now (1437H), more or less 2607 Islamic sisters had the privilege of completing Dars-e-Nizami course.

§ This year, 4928 new admissions have been sought.

§ 2438 Madrasa-tul-Madinah are functioning in Pakistan in which approximately 110201 Madani children have been seeking free Quranic education; similarly, 8983 Madani children have been seeking Quranic education in 188 overseas Madaris.

Throughout Pakistan, Madrasa-tul-Madinah has 13 branches in which approximately 4700 students are seeking Islamic education. Students from 86 countries are seeking Education through Internet.

Collect Madani donations for Dawat-e-Islami from your relatives, neighbours and friends etc., relating them the excellence of spending in the way of Allah through making individual efforts. The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Sadaqah [charity] prevents bad death.

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s predominantly evil and sinful era, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, over 97 departments, under Dawat-e-Islami, are actively serving in propagating the Sunan, the publication of ‘Ilm-e-Deen and for calling towards righteousness. Monthly, millions of rupees are required to run all these departments efficiently. We should also try to collect animal hides from our house, relatives and from various areas visiting them along with the people of the locality, introducing Dawat-e-Islami to them in order to promote and propagate the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami and persuade our dear ones and relatives to take part in the Madani activities by donating their animal hides to Dawat-e-Islami. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege us to act upon this.

Today, we have privileged to listen to the Madani pearls about the blessed personality of noble disciple and successor of A’la Hadrat, Qutb-e-Madinah, ‘Allamah Maulana Ziyauddin Ahmad Madani Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The high ranked generosity and natural kind-heartedness of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه were two of the innumerable good qualities and excellent characters. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had absolute and firm faith in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; his blessed appearance was also incredibly good-looking and attractive.

In Pilibhit, during his studies under the patronage of Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he had become the disciple of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and was conferred with Khilafah (spiritual succession) shortly. For seeking Islamic teachings, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled to Lahore, India and Baghdad. Offering Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen Salahs were amongst in his daily routine practices.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also renowned for his great hospitability. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great practicing of blessed Shari’ah and he used to urge his disciple to follow the blessed Shari’ah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a model of humbleness and humility. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away on Friday 4 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, 1401 AH and as per his will, he was buried in the Jannat-ul-Baqi’. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege us to follow the footsteps of this blessed personality!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’

(Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 115 Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, then it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

3. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl / Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

4. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl. Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application). Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left. Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5 pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

