اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Disadvantages of Fights & Quarrels

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn Sawab (reward). It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi ﷺ

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The Salat of the one who recites Salat upon me reaches me. I do Istagfaar for him and in addition, ten virtuous deeds are written for him. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود ان پہ سدا میں

اور ذکر کا بھی شوق پئے غوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

The whole city got ruined

Once, a person saw Satan going putting up his finger. He asked Satan: Why are you going putting up your finger? Satan replied: I get great work done by

my finger; it is the trick of this finger that people fight and quarrel with each other and cause disturbance. That person asked in astonishment: How is it possible? Satan replied: The city in front of me will be destroyed in a short period of time by this finger of mine and people will start fighting against each other themselves. Satan entered the city with the person. At a market, a confectioner was heating sugar after dissolving it in water in a very big caldron to make its syrup. Satan took out a little syrup of sugar after putting his finger into it and said after applying it on a wall: Now see how the city gets destroyed. Flies landed on the syrup of sugar applied on the wall; seeing the swarm of flies a lizard climbed up the wall to pounce on them. The confectioner had a cat that saw the lizard and got ready to pounce on the lizard. In the meantime, two soldiers, who had a dog, were passing through the market. The dog saw the cat and immediately attacked her. The cat jumped in order to escape, but fell straight into the caldron of the syrup of sugar and died. When the confectioner saw his cat dying, he killed the dog. Having seen the scene the soldiers killed the confectioner. When the relatives of the confectioner learnt, they killed the soldiers. When the army was informed about the death of their two soldiers, they [got angry and] destroyed the whole city. (Shaytan ki Hikayaat, pp. 150; Summarised)

مسلماں مسلمان کے خوں کا پیاسا

ہُوا وَقْت آیا عجب یاالٰہی

سبھی ایک ہو جائیں اِیمان والے

پئے شاہِ عالی نَسب یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned terrifying parable it has become obvious that causing disturbance amongst people, inciting hatred amongst them and provoking them to fight against one another are the favourite acts of Satan. Accursed Satan provokes quarrels by any means and then starts watching it as an onlooker. Then the disadvantage of fights and quarrels is that the people, who used to claim that they will sacrifice for each other, protect the honour of each other, the examples of their friendship and unity were quoted, did not like to hear even a single word against each other, did not use to even eat without each other, used to help each other in hard

times, used to persuade each other to perform good deeds; due to the curse of Satanic acts like quarrelling and fighting, such hatred is developed between them that they do not even want to see each other. The way fire destroys houses, factories, companies, warehouses, forests, villages, rural areas, and different things by burning them in hours or rather in minutes, similarly, the devastation of quarrel becomes quite often the cause of the destruction of countries, cities, generations, nations, houses, families, institutions and organizations and stirs up hatred in the hearts. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 53 of Surah Bani Israeel, part 15, giving a warning about the dangerous attack of Satan:

اِنَّ الشَّیۡطٰنَ یَنۡزَغُ بَیۡنَہُمۡ ؕ اِنَّ الشَّیۡطٰنَ کَانَ لِلۡاِنۡسَانِ عَدُوًّا مُّبِیۡنًا ﴿۵۳﴾

undoubtedly Satan sows discord among them; indeed Satan is man’s open enemy

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 53)

Similarly, in Ayah 91 of Surah Al-Mai’dah, part 7, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

اِنَّمَا یُرِیۡدُ الشَّیۡطٰنُ اَنۡ یُّوۡقِعَ بَیۡنَکُمُ الۡعَدَاوَۃَ وَ الۡبَغۡضَآءَ

The devil only seeks to instil hatred and enmity between you

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah 7, Surah Al-Mai’dah, Ayah 91)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the light of the above-mentioned blessed Ayahs if we see in our society, our conscience will bear witness that today Satan is becoming successful in this attack. For example, somewhere people are fighting due to the discrimination on the basis of caste, so somewhere people are fighting with sticks out of prejudice; somewhere people are abusing the members of their organizations, so somewhere teachers and students are clashing with each other; somewhere the quarrel between husband and wife is intensifying, so somewhere the bitter conversation between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law is going on; somewhere shopkeepers and business-partners are fighting against each other, so somewhere landlords and tenants are grappling with each other; somewhere conductors and passengers are arguing with each other, so somewhere hawkers and small vendors [who sit

somewhere to sell their goods] are speaking harshly to each other; somewhere doctors and patients are showing impatience against each other, so somewhere contractors and employees have a row with each other; somewhere neighbours have become bitter enemies of each other, so somewhere there is a clash amongst relatives; somewhere disagreements are increasing between the Imam and Muqtadees, so somewhere the Masjid Committee and Salah-offering people are busy fighting against each other; somewhere very old friends are in disagreement, so somewhere the entire home has become a battle field. If we had not ignored the commandments of the Holy Quran, had been acting upon the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, had attained the Madani pearls of advice from the sayings of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, had been associated with the Islamic scholars and had kept the destruction of quarrels in mind, so our society would have been a peaceful society today.

درسِ قرآں اگر ہم نے نہ بُھلایا ہوتا

یہ زمانہ نہ زمانے نے دکھایا ہوتا

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the destruction of fight and quarrels and get Madani pearls of admonition.

Four sayings about the condemnation of fights and quarrels

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The most unliked person in the blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the one who is the most quarrelsome. (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 193, Hadees 2457)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person who quarrels without any reason always displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until he gives it up. (Musu’at La Ibn Abi Dunya, vol. 7, pp. 111, Hadees 153)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: No nation has ever gone astray after remaining on the right path, but due to quarrels. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 170, Hadees 3264)

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A bondman cannot attain the excellence in the reality of Iman [faith], until he stops quarrelling despite being right. (Musu’at Ibn Abi Dunya, vol. 7, pp. 101, Hadees 139)

کوئی دُھتکارے یا جھاڑے بلکہ مارے صَبْر کر

مَت جھگڑ ، مت بَڑبَڑا ، پا اَجر ربّ سے صَبْر کر

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees it has become obvious that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like a quarrelsome person because he displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Quarrelling leads a person astray and the one who quarrels despite being right cannot become perfect in the reality of Iman until he stops quarrelling.

Evils of Quarrel

Sayyiduna Imam Ibn-e-Hajar Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Whether quarrels are for the right cause even then their abundance makes a person perform impermissible acts, (Jahannum mayn lay janay walay A’maal, vol. 2, pp. 674) . A small evil (of quarrels) is that a quarrelsome person’s heart is occupied with quarrels even when offering Salah. (Jahannum mayn lay janay walay A’maal, vol. 2, pp. 706)

So how unwise are the Muslims who cannot spend their life without picking a quarrel unrightfully. Such Muslims should fear that if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is displeased with them due to fights and quarrels, they will fall into disgrace and humiliation. Thus goodness lies in it that a person should keep in mind the disadvantages of fights and quarrels and should avoid them. For example, if someone quarrels with us without any reason, even then we should avoid quarrelling with him despite being just, by controlling our anger. Remember! The fortunate person, who does not quarrel despite being just, will attain success اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Heavenly Home

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I guarantee a home in the (inner) corner of Paradise to the one who does not pick a quarrel despite being rightful. (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 332, Hadees 4800)

Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ humbly requests in The Divine Court:

ہر وَقْت جہاں سے کہ اُنہیں دیکھ سکوں میں

جنّت میں مجھے ایسی جگہ پیارے خُدا دے

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping in mind the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, if we study the life of pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, it will become as clear as day that these personages would act upon the blessed Hadees completely and would always avoid fights and quarrels, because they were not so-called devotees of Rasool, but rather they were filled with the true devotion to Rasool. Further, if someone quarrelled with them without any reason, so these Allah-loving people did not quarrel with them despite being right, but rather they would resolve the matter properly. Impressed with their splendid manners their opponents would also stop quarrelling and agree to get reconciled with them. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it and rejoice.

I will not quarrel with you!

On page 362 of ‘Ihya-ul-Uloom’, vol. 3 published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami it is stated: Sayyiduna Salim Bin Qutaibah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Bashir Bin Ubaydullah Bin Abu Bakrah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said while passing by me: Why are you sitting here? I humbly replied: Due to a quarrel that is going on between me and my paternal cousin. He said: There is some favour of your father upon me and I want to do something in return for it. (He then said:) I have not seen anything more than a quarrel that takes a person away from religion, reduces respect, ends pleasure and makes heart busy. Having heard this I stood up to leave, so my paternal cousin asked: What has happened? I replied: I will not quarrel with you. He said: So you have realized that I am right. I said: No, but I want to protect myself from it. He said: I do not ask for anything from you. (He

then putting forward to him the thing over which they had a quarrel started, saying): This is yours. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 362)

نہیں سرکار! ذاتی دشمنی میری کسی سے بھی

مِری ہے نفس و شیطاں سے لڑائی یارسولَ اللہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely every wise person knows it very well that there is no goodness in picking a fight and quarrel, but rather it has only disadvantages. The disadvantages of fights and quarrels are not limited only to the one who fights, but their disasters also affect those who are related to him. At present, the quarrel between husband and wife is a clear example.

Disadvantages caused by quarrels between husband and wife

Somewhere a husband has a grievance against his wife, so somewhere a wife is sick of her husband. Due to quarrelling everyday not only their life gets disturbed, but its bad effects also start spreading on their children. Children have neither respect for their father nor for mother. One of the biggest reasons for the discord is that husband and wife do not fulfil each other’s rights and make small mistakes the matter of their stubborn egos. A husband wants his wife to live like a maid servant and a wife wants her husband to live with her like an obedient slave etc. Just ponder, when husband and wife develop such bad thoughts, then how will they spend their lives?

Due to the fight between husband and wife the future of their children is at great risk; their mental abilities become rusty. The advice of such parents does not have any effect on their children. Seeing their parents fighting, they also learn how to fight; they pay more attention to fights and quarrels than to their education. In short, the environment of the entire home is ruined due to daily quarrels. Finally, this quarrel leads to divorce. To what extent does the separation between husband and wife gives pleasure to Satan, can be judged by the following blessed Hadees.

Throne of Satan

Hadrat Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Noble and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Satan lays its throne on the water, then sends its troops. Amongst these troops, nearer to it (satan) in rank is the one who is the most Fitna-provoking one. One of them comes and says: I did such and such thing, so Satan says: You did nothing. Then another amongst them comes and says: I did not leave so-and-so until I brought about separation between him and his wife. Listening to it Iblees gets him closer and says: You are very good. Sayyiduna Imam A’mash رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I think it was said: Embraces him. (Muslim, pp. 1157, Hadees 7106)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that the act of separating a husband from his wife pleases Satan enormously. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on our conditions and protect us from fights and quarrels and from provoking people to have fights and quarrels! In order to resolve the matters between husband and wife, mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, etc., satisfactorily do study the following three booklets namely, ‘Nachaqiyun ka ilaaj’, ‘Ghar Aman ka gehwara kaysay banay?’ and ‘Saas bahu mayn sulah ka raaz’ written by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . One will get great help in making home peaceful. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Deprived of blessings

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the disadvantages of fights and quarrels is that its curse deprives a person of many blessings. For example, during a fight and quarrel someone gets a head injury, so someone loses his eye, someone breaks his arm, so someone receives an injury on his leg, someone gets his vertebra [any of the small bones that are connected together to form the spine] violently pulled, so someone loses his teeth, someone’s relative or friend loses his life, so someone falls victim to death. Remember! Fights and quarrels not only have many worldly disadvantages, but they also become the cause of many deprivations from the religious viewpoint. For example, every Muslim knows that the night of Qadr is the great night in which the Holy Quran was descended; it [this night] is better than 1000 months; there is a blessed Surah regarding the excellence of this night in the Holy Quran [part

30], but the determination of this blessed night has also been kept hidden due to the fight between two Muslims.

Reason for keeping Night of Qadr hidden

Sayyiduna Ubadda Bin Saamit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to tell us about the night of Qadr, two Muslim men started fighting. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I came to tell you about the night of Qadr, but so-and-so started fighting, so the determination of the night of Qadr was lifted, maybe this act of it being lifted is better for you; now find it in the last ninth, seventh, fifth (night of blessed Ramadan). (Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 662, Hadees 2023)

In relation to this blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The quarrel of these people was un-rightful and was more than a moderate level that has produced this effect. It has become obvious that worldly quarrels are a curse; their evil effect is very severe; due to them the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, which is on the way, stops. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 3, pp. 210)

Let’s make an intention that we will not fight and quarrel; we will try to act upon the Sunnah of making reconciliation between Muslims who are fighting and quarrelling. If someone makes us angry, we will be patient; we will avoid the acts which add fuel to the fire of fights and quarrels such as untruth, backbiting, tale-telling, envy, arrogance, breaking of a promise, unnecessary stubbornness, stinginess, insult, insensitivity, shouting, swearing, criticising, racism and oppression. If someone provokes us to fight, even then we will not fight and quarrel, but rather we will make Satan unsuccessful in its effort. We will remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to attain this Madani thought. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

تم کو کچھ معلوم ہے یارو! مجھے

دعوتِ اسلامی سے کیوں پیار ہے

ہے کرم اِس پر خدائے پاک کا

دعوتِ اسلامی سے یُوں پیار ہے

اِس پہ ہے نظرِ کرم سرکار کی

دعوتِ اسلامی سے یُوں پیار ہے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another reason for fight is tale-telling:

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Fights and quarrels do not break out themselves, but rather there is a reason behind them. When the cause exists, fights or quarrels begin. Another reason for fights and quarrels is tale-telling. Remember! To mention what someone has told you to someone else for creating disturbance is called tale-telling. (‘Umdat-ul-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 594, Taht-al-Hadees 216)

Alas! No matter whether it is the gathering of friends or gathering after a religious Ijtima, a wedding ceremony or session of condolence, a meeting with someone else or talking to someone else on phone if we have a chance to talk to someone else and a sensitive person having Islamic knowledge looks into our conversation so perhaps he may prove dozens of tale-tellings along with other sinful words in majority of our gatherings. Listen to an admonitory parable about the destruction of tale-telling and make intention to abstain from it.

Home got destroyed due to tale-telling

On page 71 of a booklet ‘Curse of Sins’, published by Maktaba tul Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami it is stated: Once a person sold his slave to someone and said to him: This slave has no fault, except one, that is, he is a tale-teller. Considering the fault (minor) the buyer bought him and the slave started looking after him. One day the same slave went to the wife of his master and said: O ma’am! I am sorry to say that your husband does not love you; now he intends to buy a slave girl so that he can have a very good time with her and leave you completely. If you want, I can tell you a way by which he may turn towards you and may start loving you. The wife asked: What is the way? The slave said: Tonight when your husband falls asleep, get a razor and cut some hairs of his beard from the throat side and then keep the hair yourself, I will then tell you the method. After this the slave went to his master and started saying: Your highness! Today I have seen

ma’am with a stranger having a close personal relationship with him and she wants to murder you. If you want to get a proof of what I am saying, pretend that you are sleeping tonight with your eyes closed. Whatever the slave told aroused suspicion [in his heart] and that night he did the same. His wife thought that he was sleeping. With a razor in her hand she went near him to cut the hair of the beard. Her husband became sure that his wife wanted to kill him. He immediately stood up, snatched the razor and killed her. When the relatives of the woman learnt, they came quickly and killed him. Then the relatives of both fought against each other and almost 100 people were killed. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 195)

حسد، وعدہ خلافی، جُھوٹ،چُغلی، غیبت و تُہمت

مجھے اِن سب گناہوں سے ہو نفرت یارسولَ اللہ

Through this parable we came to know that tale-telling is a very bad disease and it leads to the destruction of a peaceful home.

Madani Dars—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that tale-telling is the destructive habit that open doors to suspicions, discords, massacre, fights amongst families. Therefore not only protect yourself from fights and quarrels and the causes which lead to them, but also persuade your family members and friends to avoid them. In order to get the mind-set of getting rid of fights and quarrels and the things lead to them, achieve salvation from the disaster of tale-telling and get the mind-set of bringing about reconciliation between Muslims, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One daily Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities is ‘Madani Dars’ which is the most effective source of gaining and imparting Islamic knowledge. Giving Dars from all the books and booklets except a few books and booklets and especially giving Dars from ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat Vol.1’ and its chapters “Backbiting”, “Call towards Righteousness” authored by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ in

Masajid, at roundabouts, markets, shops, offices and homes etc., is called ‘Madani Dars’ in the organizational terminology.

Madani Dars is a very beautiful Madani activity by virtue of which one may have the privilege of going to Masjid again and again. By virtue of Madani Dars one gets the opportunity to study. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars the Sunnah of meeting and greeting Muslims is propagated. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars precious Madani pearls containing plenty of Islamic knowledge taken from books and booklets of different topics of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat are conveyed to Muslim Ummah. Madani Dars is very helpful in making Muslims, who do not offer Salah, Salah-offering Muslims. Madani Dars is a most effective source of conveying call towards righteousness to the Muslims who do not go to the Masjid. If Madani Dars is given at roundabouts, markets, shops, etc., besides Masajid, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami will also be publicized there by virtue of its blessings. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Dars different books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat are introduced to public.

Du’a of Attar: O Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Forgive the Islamic brother or sister, who gives or listens to two Dars daily, and me without any accountability and let us live together in the neighbourhood of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

جو دے روز دو درسِ فیضانِ سنّت

میں دیتا ہوں اس کو دُعائے مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is narrated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: Learn words of goodness yourself and teach them to others as well; I will illuminate the graves of those who learn and teach goodness so that they do not have any kind of fear. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 5, Hadees 7622)

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

I have got rid of bad company.

An Islamic brother who lives at Shalimar Town (Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore) has stated:

I was an extremely wicked person and had indulged in many evils such as watching films and dramas daily, teasing girls, friendship with loafers and wandering with them till late night. Even my relatives did not like to meet me; they would resent when I would go to their homes and would prevent their children from meeting me.

Fortune smiled on me when a devotee of Rasool of Dawat-e-Islami met me very politely and tried to persuade me to travel with a Madani Qafilah. Impressed by his polite behaviour and sincere invitation, I travelled with a Madani Qafilah during which the company of the devotees of Rasool brought about a Madani transformation in my life.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessings of the company of devotees of Rasool in the Madani Qafilah I repented of my sins and got the enthusiasm for wearing dress and Imama as per Sunnah. The very same relatives that once used to avoid me now meet me affectionately. I was once the worst in my family but now I have become the dearest by virtue of the blessings of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Qafilahs, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اگر سُنّتیں سیکھنے کا ہے جذبہ

تم آجاؤ دیگا سکھا مَدَنی ماحول

تَنَزُّل کے گہرے گڑھے میں تھے اُن کی

ترقّی کا باعث بنا مَدَنی ماحول

نبی کی محبّت میں رونے کا انداز

چلے آؤ سکھلائے گا مَدَنی ماحول

Illegal occupation of plots of land:

Dear Islamic brothers! Another reason for fights and quarrels is illegal occupation of plots of land. Anyone dreaming to have his own home after spending his saving when succeeds in buying a plot of land; he cannot sleep due to the tension of saving it from the land mafia? Despite taking precautionary measures if his land is illegally occupied, so even after making flattery these people of land mafia, who have no fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have no

mercy on him (legal owner), but rather they ask for a huge amount of money for giving back his own plot of land. If the oppressed person goes to the court in order to get his land free, so such delay tactics are used that the real owner of the land departs his life, but he does not get his land back. Land mafia should ponder over it by thinking that today the land which they are occupying happily and incurring the curse of the victim will become a Touq [a collar] around their necks and bring about disgrace to them when they die. Sometimes these people of land mafia meet their end in the form of a murder and massacre and imprisonment teaching lessons to others. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable about it and learn a lesson.

Woman who tried to occupy land illegally went blind

A woman named Arwa had a quarrel with Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ about some parts of the house. He said: Give her this land. I have heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: ‘ مَنْ اَخَذَ شِبْرًا مِنَ الْاَرْضِ بِغَیْرِ حَقِّہِ طُوِّقَہُ فِیْ سَبْعِ اَرَضِیْنَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ ’ The person who unjustifiably seizes even a hand span of land will be made to wear the collar of seven earths around his neck on the Judgment Day. After this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Du’a: Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If she is a liar, make her blind and make her grave in this home.

The narrator said: I saw that the woman had gone blind; she would grope her way along the walls and would say: I have been cursed by Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . At last, one day while walking in the home she fell into the well and died. The same well became her grave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 669, Hadees 4132)

Majlis ‘Izdiyad-e-Hub’:

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How destructive are fights and quarrels that the person who gets involved in them becomes an admonitory lesson in the world. Dawat-e-Islami is so great that it is always making efforts to keep Muslims away from fights and quarrels and trying to unite them in

this critical age. A glaring example of it is ‘Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub’ under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

Practising in a proper way as per organizational method Madani In’aam No. 55 associate the Islamic brothers, who used to come in the past but do not come now, in Masjid-filling movement by making them active in the Madani environment, go to meet them individually at their shops, homes or offices after making an arrangement for a meeting at an agreed time, give them the mind-set of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakrahs, persuade them to do collective I’tikaf and Madani courses (Deed Reformation Course, Faizan-e-Namaz Course, etc.), persuade them to travel with Madani Qafilahs, arrange Madani Halqahs at their homes, persuade them to attend Madrasa tul Madinah for adults, take part in their matters of joy, sorrow, illnesses, deaths, etc., and arrange Maktubaat and Ta’wizaat of Attariyyah for them when they are in trouble etc. All these acts are included in the aims and objectives of this Majlis. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub to progress further!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اِسلامی تِری دُھوم مچی ہو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How can we get rid of fights and quarrels?

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard about the disadvantages of fights and quarrels. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to develop hatred towards them after listening to them and make our mind to repent of them! But the question is: What are the acts by virtue of the blessing of which we can get rid of fights and quarrels? Presented below are seven ways by which we can get rid of fights and quarrels. Listen to them and try to act upon them:

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: First make your right foot enter after reciting بِسۡمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡم through the door at the time of entering home. Then saying Salaam to family members go inside the

§ home. If there is no one at home, say اَلسَّلامُ عَلَیْکَ اَیُّہاَ النَّبِیُّ وَ رحْمَۃُ اللہِ وَ بَرَکاتُہ ٗ . Some pious predecessors have been observed that they recite بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْم and قُلْ ھُوَ اللہ at the time of entering home in the beginning of the day as it maintains unity at home (that is, quarrel does not break out) and brings blessing in sustenance. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 9) Beseech in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in order to get rid of fights and quarrels and make Du’a raising your hands with tearful eyes for achieving salvation from fights and quarrels.

§ Read again and again the blessed Ahadees and narrations, parables and sayings of Islamic saints about the virtues of avoiding fights and quarrels and disadvantages of having fights and quarrels.

§ Become humble.

§ Avoid the company of quarrelsome friends.

§ Control your anger.

§ Study the booklets namely, ‘Zulm ka Anjaam’ (Catastrophic Consequences of Cruelty), ‘Ihtiraam-e-Muslim’ (The Respect of a Muslim), ‘Ghusay ka Ilaaj’ (Cure for Anger) and the book namely, ‘Takleef na dijiye’. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will make up your mind to avoid fights and quarrels.

Teaching us and giving us the Madani pearls of advice, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qa a diri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said:

تُو نرمی کو اپنانا جھگڑے مٹانا

رہے گا سدا خُوشْنُما مَدَنی ماحول

تُو غُصّے جھڑکنے سے بچنا وگرنہ

یہ بدنام ہوگا تِرا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of Speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard that

§ Satan really likes picking fights and quarrels and provoking others to have fights and quarrels.

§ Fights and quarrels are extremely harmful to the country and nation.

§ Fights and quarrels are responsible for the destruction of homes and families.

§ Picking fights and quarrels displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ Picking fights and quarrels leads a person astray.

§ Fights and quarrels open doors to Fitnas (Discords).

§ Fights and quarrels are responsible for the destruction of the world and the Hereafter.

§ Fights and quarrels deprive a person of blessings.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable all the Muslims to avoid fights and quarrels and also enable them to live together with love!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Meaning of Silah Rihmi [kind treatment]

It is stated on pages 201 to 203 of the sixteenth part of Bahar-e-Shari’at – a 312-page publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: ﴿ صِلَهٔ رِحۡم ﴾ [Silah- Rihm] implies establishing relations, i.e. doing relatives any favour and treating them with kindness. The entire

Ummah is agreed that Silah-Rihm [i.e. kind treatment with relatives] is Wajib and breaking off relations is Haraam.

It is Wajib to treat certain relatives with kindness

Which are the relatives that must be treated with kindness as a Wajib obligation? Some scholars have stated that they are ‘Zu-Rihm Mahram’ and some other stated that they are Zu-Rihm relatives regardless of whether they are Mahram or not. Apparently, the latter ruling is more accurate. Ahadees contain an unconditional order of treating relatives with kindness. The Holy Quran also unconditionally stated ﴿ ذَوِي الۡقُرۡبٰي ﴾ (i.e. the relatives). However, as there are different levels of relations, there are also different levels of treating relatives with kindness. Parents have the greatest status. After them is the status of ‘Zu- Rihm Mahram’ (i.e. the relatives with whom marriage is Haraam forever due to Nasabi [i.e. genealogical] relation with them). After them is the status of the rest of relatives, depending upon how close relationship they have. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 678)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool ﷺ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

