اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Eminence of Sayyidatuna ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

Umm-ul-Mu'mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃٌ لَّہٗ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

I.e. the one who would recite Durood upon me on Friday, his intercession would be upon my mercy on the Day of Judgement.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Juz: 1, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2236)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadan! The blessed month of Ramadan is ongoing. 17 th of Ramadan marks the day of demise [‘Urs] of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, wife of the Holy Rasool, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah, Muftiyah, Mufassirah, Muhaddisah, Faqeeha, Aabidah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

In the same context, let’s be blessed with listening to some bright aspects of her eminence, greatness, attributes, excellence and blessed Seerah today. Let’s first of all listen to her brief introduction.

Introduction of Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is Umm-ul-Mu`mineen (i.e. the mother of believers). Her name is ‘Aishah, Kunyah is Umm-e-‘Abdullah, mother’s name is Umm-e-Rumaan and father’s name is Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 468)

She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا departed this world on 17 th Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 57 or 58 AH in Madinah-e-Munawwarah. Sayyiduna Abu Huraira رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led her funeral Salah. As per her will, people laid her to rest in Jannat-ul-Baqi’ beside other Azwaaj-e-Mutahharat [noble wives] during the night time. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 392)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! All the Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen are indeed superior to other women in rank, status and various excellences. All of them are Waliyyahs of the highest ranks. They are the mothers of this Ummah possessing the most beautiful virtues and being a true reflection of knowledge and piety. But the status of Umm-ul-Mu'mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is like that of a sun among them all. By the virtue of the merciful gaze of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was known as the scholar, Muftiyah, Muhaddisah and Mufassirah of her time. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is that fortunate woman who was blessed with having the company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even at the time of his apparent demise.

Special companionship and closeness to the Holy Rasool

(While mentioning the state of the last moments of the apparent life of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: “(When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was feeling pain

due to the intensity of the illness, at that time), my brother Abdur Rahman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to me. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had a Miswak in his hand. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started looking at him. I knew that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم likes Miswak. Therefore, I humbly said: ‘Shall I take the Miswak for you?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said “yes” through the gesture of his blessed head. So, I took that Miswak from Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم felt it to be hard. I humbly said: “Shall I soften it?” The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied from the gesture of his blessed head: “Yes”. So I (chewed and) softened the Miswak.

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a bowl of water in front of him. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would dip his blessed hand in, touch his blessed face with it and say: “ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ، اِنَّ لِلْمَوْتِ سَکَرَاتٍ i.e. there is no God but Allah. Indeed, there are hardships in death.” Then, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his blessed hand and said: فِی الرَّفِیْقِ الْاَعْلٰی i.e. in the Jama’at of the blessed Ambiya عَلَیْہِمُ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَام ”. To the extent that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away. (Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 157, Hadees 4449)

O devotees of Rasool! You see what a great rank Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possesses in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was not only blessed with the special closeness of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم during his apparent life, but was also blessed with the same honour during the last moments of his apparent life.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remembered this favour all her life and mentioned her dignity and greatness in order to express this blessing.

Ten superiorities

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: ‘I have been given ten superiorities over the blessed wives of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ It was humbly asked, ‘O Umm-ul-Mu`mineen! What are those ten superiorities?’ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not marry any other unmarried woman except for me.

2. Except me, no one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِن َّ اَجْمَعِیْن is such whose mother and father both migrated.

3. Allah Almighty revealed my chastity from the heavens (in the Holy Quran).

4. (Before the marriage), Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with my appearance in a silk cloth. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly said: ‘Marry her because she is your wife.’

5. Me and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform Ghusl from the same container. No one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِن َّ اَجْمَعِیْن has had this privilege except for me.

6. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to offer Tahajjud Salah whereas I used to remain asleep in front of him. No one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِن َّ اَجْمَعِیْن has been blessed with such compassionate love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

7. At the time of the revelation of Wahi, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be with me. A Wahi did not reveal upon him when he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was with any other blessed wife except for me.

8. The blessed head of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was in between my chest and throat, and he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away in the same very state.

9. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away on the day that was allocated for me.

10. The blessed grave of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made in my house. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 659-660; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! May we be sacrificed upon the eminence and greatness of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Undoubtedly, the honour of being the wife of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and mother of the believers that are to come until the Day of Judgement was not any less for her. Allah Almighty showered more grace and blessings upon her as compared to the other wives of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, the ocean of her eminence and dignity is so deep that whoever dives into its depth finds precious pearls every single time.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned her virtues and praises in a very beautiful manner through his blessed truthful tongue. Let’s listen to four blessed Ahadees mentioning the eminence and greatness of Sayyidatuna ‘Aishah Siddiqah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Eminence of Sayyidah ‘Aishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا through the tongue of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to blessed Sahabah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم regarding Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: ‘Acquire two thirds of your Deen through ‘Humaira حُمَیْرا (i.e. Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا).’ (Tafseer Kabeer, part 30, Al Qadr, Taht-ul-Ayah: 3, vol. 11, pp. 232)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: ‘O Fatima! Will you not love the one whom I love?’ Sayyidah Fatima Zahra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly said: ‘Why not.’ Upon this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Love ‘Aishah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’ (Muslim, pp. 1017, Hadees 2442)

3. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم addressed his beloved daughter, Sayyidah Fatima رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, and said: ‘I swear by the Lord of Ka’bah! Your father loves ‘Aishah (رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا) immensely.’

(Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 359, Hadees 4898)

4. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Superiority of ‘Aishah (رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا) over women is

like the superiority of Sareed [1] over all foods.’ (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 454, Hadees 3433)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions regarding the last aforementioned Hadees: ‘Sareed, i.e. roti [loaf of bread] mixed with gravy and meat pieces, is an excellent food. It is superior to all the foods as it digests quickly, provides a lot of energy, is extremely tasty, you don’t need to chew it and it contains various attributes. Similarly, Sayyidah ‘Aishah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed attributes like beauty, noble character, knowledge, acting upon the knowledge, eloquence of speech, wisdom, presence of mind, intellect, being the beloved of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and thousands of such attributes. Matter of the fact is that she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is superior to all the women, even Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gathered loads of Ahadees and was expert in the knowledge and sciences of the Holy Quran. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 501; summarised)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says in relation to another Hadees: Virtues of Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا are countless like the particles of sand and stars of the sky. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is a gift of Allah Almighty to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty testified her chastity Himself in Surah e Noor of the Holy Quran; whereas, the chastity of Sayyidah Maryam رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم was testified through a child. This Ummah obtained the convenience of Tayammum due to her. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away (apparently) on her chest. The last resting place of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is her room. Her saliva mixed with that of the Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of his (apparent) demise. Wahi used to be revealed to the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while he was present with her. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا herself is Siddiqah (i.e. an extremely truthful woman) and the daughter of Siddique (meaning an extremely truthful person, i.e. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 502)

Introduction of the book “Faizan-e-‘Aishah Siddiqah”

O devotees of Rasool! In order to acquire more information regarding the Seerah of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, reading the book “Faizan-e-’Aishah Siddiqah”, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, would be very beneficial. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this book talks about the literary greatness of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . It talks about her sayings and the passion she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed to worship (Allah Almighty). This book talks about her traits like generosity and the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It talks about her individuality, how she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا looked after her domestic chores, and how she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا acted upon the blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This book mentions about her eloquence of speech, crying in Divine fear, humility and humbleness, and it contains various other Madani pearls too. The topics of this book have been derived from 215 books. Purchase this book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah today. Read it yourself as well as persuade other Islamic brothers and Maharim Islamic sisters of your house to read it too. This book can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani In’amaat, one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! Along with offering Faraaid, if you would also like to increase the passion of acting upon the Sunnahs and offering Nawafil, then remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, at all times. Moreover, do take some time out from your other commitments for Madani activities. Remember! Performing Fikr-e-Madinah [self-accountability] everyday according to “Madani In’amaat” and submitting it to the responsible Islamic brother of your locality on the first of every Madani [Islamic] month is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

In order to acquire detailed information regarding the daily Madani activity of “Madani In’amaat”, read Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s booklet, “Madani In’amaat” . All responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami, especially the Nigrans and members of the Majalis of Madani In’amaat, should definitely read this booklet. Along with being available on the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, this booklet can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of this booklet, you will be able to read:

٭ Priceless facts

٭ Aims of Madani In’amaat

٭ Some medical and scientific benefits of Madani In’amaat

٭ Draft Jadwal [schedule] of acting upon the Madani In’amaat

٭ Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah

٭ Sayings of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ regarding Madani In’amaat

٭ Du’as of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ for those who act upon the Madani In’amaat

٭ Madani pearls of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura regarding Madani In’amaat

٭ Blessings of Madani In’amaat

٭ Questions regarding Madani In’amaat based upon Shar’i and organisational precautions

٭ Questions pertaining to useful information

٭ Useful information regarding the Mobile application of Madani In’amaat.

٭ List of the provisions of Madani In’amaat etc.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭, Madani In’amaat are a great tool to increase the passion of performing righteous deeds and abandoning sins.

٭ Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه becomes extremely happy with those who act upon the Madani In’amaat and he blesses them with Du’as.

٭ By the blessing of acting upon Madani In’amaat makes one attain the priceless treasure of the Divine fear and the devotional love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ This great gift of Madani In’amaat makes us remember the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُاللہِ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِم .

٭ Madani In’amaat is a great tool to perform Fikr-e-Madinah, i.e. self-accountability, whilst following in the footsteps of the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُاللہِ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِم .

Majlis Madani In’amaat

In order to act upon Madani In’amaat easily and to keep an eye on its performance etc., اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Majlis Madani In’amaat is one of the most important department out of approximately 107 departments of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, that are rendering Islamic services. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters, and students of Jami'aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing Muslims and persuade them to act upon the Madani In’amaat. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable.

Reward of performing Fikr-e-Madinah everyday

Once, an Islamic brother was travelling with a Madani Qafilah. During this travel, doors of mercy opened upon him. What happened was that when he fell asleep at night, his fortune shone. What he saw was that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came in his dream. He was still lost in beholding the vision of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as the blessed lips moved and following words of mercy uttered like the blossoming of a flower: “Those who perform Fikr-e-Madinah daily in the Madani Qafila, I will take them with me into Paradise.”

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Way of generosity and sacrifice of Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah

Dear Islamic brothers! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا also possessed immense passion of generosity and giving sacrifices for others. The state of her generosity and sacrifice was such that she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would even donate in the path of Allah Almighty the things of her own needs too and would not keep anything for herself. Let us listen to a faith- refreshing parable regarding the generosity and sacrifice of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and try to develop the passion of giving in the path of Allah Almighty.

Donated one hundred thousand dirhams

Sayyidah Umm-e-Durrah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا narrates: I was with Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . At that time, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا received one hundred thousand dirhams from somewhere. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا instantly distributed all those dirhams among people and did not keep a single dirham in her house. That day, I and she were observing Sawm. I humbly said: ‘You distributed all the dirhams and did not keep a single dirham so that you could buy some meat and opened up the Sawm?’ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘Had you said it to me before, I would have got meat for one dirham.’ (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 389-392)

O devotees of Awliya! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is among those highest ranked Waliyaat who spent their entire life in worship and spiritual practices. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the way t he Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah, the Distributor of Na’mah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer the nawafil of Ishraq, Chasht, Tahiyyat-ul-Wudhu, Tahiyyat-ul-Masjid, Awwabeen, offer Salah at night and offered Tahajjud Salah punctually all his life etc., in addition to the five daily Salahs, similarly, Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would also offer Tahajjud and Chasht Salahs with steadfastness along with carrying out the domestic chores and serving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Steadfastness over Tahajjud Salah

It is stated on page No. 660 of the book “Seerat-e-Mustafa”, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: She

رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is also highly ranked in terms of worship as well. Her nephew, Sayyiduna Imam Qasim Bin Muhammad Bin Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم states: ‘Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was steadfast upon offering Tahajjud and would often observe Siyam.’ (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 660; summarised)

Love for the Chasht Salah

She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا used to offer eight Rak’ats of Chasht Salah. Then, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would say: ‘Even if my parents get resurrected, still I would not leave these Rak’ats.’ (Muwatta Imam Malik, pp. 153, Hadees 366)

Under the aforementioned second Hadeeth, Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I.e. if I am given the news during the time of Ishraq that my parents have been resurrected and returned back, then I will not leave these Nawafil to meet them. Rather, I will first offer these Nawafil and then go kiss their feet. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 299)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! What great passion for nafl (optional) acts of worship Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aishah Siddiqah, ‘Aabidah, Zahidah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed. Just ponder that the one whose eminence is mentioned in the Holy Quran, whose virtues and excellences have been mentioned in Ahadees, who was called the scholar, Muftiyah, Faqeeha, Muhaddisah and Mufassirah of her time, whose eminent dignity and greatness were spread all around by the righteous predecessors; let alone leaving Faraaid, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا did not even feel appropriate to leave the Nawafil of Tahajjud and Chasht Salah. However, state of many Muslims nowadays is such that they leave Nafl Salah aside, they cannot even offer Fard Salahs. A large number of people leave for even Jumu’ah Salah when only few minutes are left for the Jama’at to start. Then as soon as the Imam performs the Salam or completes the first Du’a, more than half of the Masjid gets empty of the Salah-offering people.

Ah! What has happened to Muslims? Why have people started to lose interest in the acts of worship? Why are people lazy in acting upon the

commands of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Why the passion of Nafl acts of worship has started to diminish away? Why people make excuses when it comes to observing Siyam? Why have our Masajid become deserted?

Have people received the glad tidings of forgiveness? Is their Book of Deeds full of virtuous deeds? Are they not in need of virtuous deeds? Are they absolutely sure that they will leave this world in the state of Iman? Will they be able to endure the severities of death? Will they be able to rest in peace in their dark graves by disobeying the commands of Shari’ah? Will they be able to succeed in the questions of the grave and the Hereafter? Undoubtedly, none of us knows any of this for sure.

Therefore, we shall appreciate our short life considering it to be a blessing. Come out of the trap of vain hopes and make yourself used to offering Nafl (optional) acts of worship as well along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat regularly. In order to make yourself accustomed to offering Faraaid, Wajibat and nafl acts of worship, performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily while acting upon “72 Madani In’amaat” given to us by Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah, Maulana, Abu Bilal, Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is very useful. اَلْحَمْدُلِلّٰہ! By the virtue of acting upon them, we will not only act upon Faraaid and Wajibat, but will also be able to easily act upon the Sunnahs and Mustahabbat [preferable actions] too.

For persuasion, let’s listen about few Madani In’amaat and make an intention of acting upon them.

It is stated in Madani In’aam no. 2: Today, did you offer all the five daily S alah in the first row of the Masjid, with Jama’at (Congregation), attending the primary Takbeer? Did you try to take at least one person to the Masjid with you each time?

Madani In’aam no. 16 states: Today, did you offer S alat-ut-Taubah at least once (preferably before going to bed) and repent of the sins committed today as well as in the past? Further, in case some sin gets committed مَعَاذَاللّٰه, did you repent instantly and vow never to commit that sin again?

Madani In’aam no. 18 states: Today, did you offer preceding Sunnah S alah of Fajr, Z uhr, ‘A s r and ‘Isha (before the Jama’at of Far d S alah) and the succeeding Nafl S alah after the Far d S alah? (Nafl S alah may also be offered after Dars/Bayan.)

It is stated in Madani In’aam no. 19: Today, did you offer the Salah of Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

Madani In’aam no. 20 states: Did you offer Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid at least once today?

Let’s all of us make an intention that from today onwards, we will fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat daily while performing Fikr-e-Madinah, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will submit it to the local responsible Islamic brother on the first of every Madani [Islamic] month, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will offer all daily five Salahs in the first row of the Masjid with Takbeer-e-Aula [primary Takbeer], اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Masjid-filling movement will continue, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will also keep offering Salah-tut-Taubah and preceding Sunnahs, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We will also keep offering Tahajjud Salah, Ishraq and Chasht, Awwabeen and other Nawafil, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding funeral

٭ When a person dies who is a Heaven dweller, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not give punishment to those people who carried his Janazah, and who followed it, and who offered his Salat-ul-Janazah. (Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 1, pp. 282, Hadees 1108)

٭ The very first reward a Mu’min will be given after death is that all of the attendees of his Janazah will be forgiven. (Musnad-ul-Bazaar, vol. 11, pp. 86, Hadees 4796)

٭ One should attend a Janazah with good intentions like seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, fulfilling the obligation, expressing condolences to the family of the deceased, etc.

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls regarding funeral will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 16 May 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding funeral

٭ While going with a Janazah, keep on thinking about your own fate that you will also be taken one day in the same way as this person is being taken today; you will also be buried in the same way as this person is going to be buried beneath tons of soil. It is ‘Ibadat [an act of worship] and a source of earning Sawab to contemplate like this.

٭ Shouldering the deceased is a source of earning Sawab. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Forty grave sins will be erased of the one who carries a Janazah for forty steps.’ Moreover, it is stated in another blessed Hadees: ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant absolute forgiveness to the one who shoulders all four corners of a Janazah.’ (Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 139; Durr-e-Mukhtar ma’ Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 158; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 823)

٭ The Sunnah method is to shoulder a Janazah from all four corners one after another and to walk ten steps each time. The complete Sunnah is to first shoulder the top right side [of the deceased], then the bottom right side, then the top left side and then the bottom left side. One should walk ten steps [shouldering each side], so he will take forty steps in total. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 162; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 822)

٭ While shouldering a Janazah, it is impermissible, Haraam and an act that leads towards Hell to push people deliberately in a way that hurts them, like some people do in the Janazah of a personality.

٭ Husband can shoulder the Janazah of his wife, lower her into the grave and even see her face. Only [the acts of] giving Ghusl and touching the

body directly without anything in between are forbidden. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 813)

٭ It is permissible to recite Kalimah Tayyibah, Kalimah Shahadat, Hamd-o-Na’at, etc. with a Janazah in a loud voice. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 139-158)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for sitting peacefully upon a ride

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for “sitting peacefully upon a ride” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ سُبْحَانَ الَّذِیْ سَخَّرَ لَنَا ھٰذَا وَمَاکُنَّا لَہٗ مُقْرِنِیْنَ وَاِنَّآ اِلٰی رَبِّنَا لَمُنْقَلِبُوْنَ 0

(Abu Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 49, Hadees 2602)

Translation: Thanks to Allah Almighty. Pure is He Who made it [i.e. the ride] subservient to us. And we could not make it subservient. (Khazeena-e-Rahmat, pp. 141)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

