اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Condemnation of Love for World

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ مِاءَۃً کَتَبَ اللّٰہُ بَیْنَ عَیْنَیْہِ بَرَاءَ ۃً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَاءَۃً مِّنَ النَّارِوَاَسْکَنَہُ اللّٰہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مَعَ الشُّہَدَاءِ

i.e. The person who will recite Salat 100 times on me, Allah Almighty will write between both of his eyes that this person is free from the hypocrisy and the fire of Hell and He will keep him with martyrs on the Judgement Day.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 7235)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s make good intentions for attaining the pleasure of Allah Almighty and rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Why is world called world?

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated on page 260 of his book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness]: The word ﴿ دُنۡيَا ﴾ [i.e. the world] literally means ‘closeness’. In other words, it is called the world because it is closer to humans than the Hereafter, or due to the reason that it is closer to the heart because of its desires and pleasures. (Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 17)

What is the world?

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Badruddin ‘Ayni رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has said: Before the home of the Hereafter, all creation is [referred to as] the world. (‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 52) Therefore from this viewpoint, gold, silver and every necessary and unnecessary thing bought against them (gold, silver) is included in the world.

(Al-Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 17)

Which world is good and which is condemnable?

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! There are three types of worldly things:

1. There are only two worldly things that help a person in the Hereafter and their benefit is obtained even after death. (1) Knowledge and (2) Deed. Deed means to worship Allah Almighty with sincerity.

2. The things whose benefit is limited to the world only and one cannot get any benefit from it in the Hereafter such as getting pleasure from sins and gaining benefits more than the need from permissible things, for example a piece of land, property, gold, silver, nice clothes and eating delicious foods are all included in the condemnable type of the world.

3. The type in which there are things that are helpful in performing virtuous deeds like necessary food, clothes, etc., are also a good type of the world, but this world will be condemnable if one aims to get only

immediate worldly benefit and pleasure from it. (Summarized from: Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 270-271)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to 17 blessed Ahadees about the reality of the world and about its condemnation from page 11 of a booklet named, ‘Jannati Mahal ka Sawda’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ .

1. Sustenance of birds

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’ z am رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم say, ‘If you trust (i.e. have Tawakkul) in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as He ought to be trusted, He will give you sustenance as He gives to birds that go hungry in the morning and return with their stomachs filled in the evening.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 154, Hadees 2351)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘The right of trust is to believe in Allah Almighty as the real giver of sustenance.’ Some other scholars have stated, ‘Struggling (to earn Halal sustenance) and then leaving the result to the Will of Allah Almighty is the right of trust in Allah Almighty. One should work physically but have trust in Allah Almighty. It is also a proven fact that those trusting Allah Almighty do not die of hunger.’

It should be kept in mind that birds do go out of their nest in search of sustenance. However, as trees are immovable, they get water and fertilizers etc., where they are. When a baby crow hatches out, its colour is naturally white so its parents fly away due to fear. With the command of Allah Almighty, a particular type of small insects gather over its mouth and the baby crow feeds on them. When it turns black, its parents return.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 113-114; Mirqat, vol. 9, pp. 156, Hadees 5299)

What is Tawakkul ?

A’la H adrat Maulana Shah Imam Ahmed Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has said, ‘Tawakkul does not mean giving up sources, but rather اِعْتِمَاد عَلَی الْاَسْبَاب it means not having trust in sources.’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 379) In other words, Tawakkul is not to give up sources, but rather Tawakkul is that one should not trust sources.

2. Better than the world and all that it has

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘As much place as a whip covers in Heaven is better than the world and its things.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 392, Hadees 3250)

Regarding this Blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘A little space in Paradise is better than the world and whatever it has. To mention a whip refers to a custom of the past when a horseman would throw his whip at the place where he wanted to get off so that no one else would get off there.’ (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 4, pp. 433)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that mentioning a whip implies a little place of Heaven! Indeed heavenly favours are eternal while worldly things are mortal. Worldly comforts come with troubles, whereas heavenly favours are pure (not mixed with troubles). Worldly things are inferior while those of Heaven are superior. Therefore, the world bears no comparison with even a little place of Heaven.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 447)

3. Those saving wealth for worldly life are unwise

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘The world is the house of the one who has no house and is the wealth of the one who has no wealth, and the one saving for it is not wise.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 250, Hadees 5211)

4. Live in the world like a traveller

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once held my shoulders and said, ‘Live in the world like a stranger and a traveller.’ Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said, ‘If you are alive in the evening, then do not wait for the morning and when you are alive in the morning, do not wait for the evening, and make preparation for illness when you are healthy and for death in your life.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 223, Hadees 6416)

5. Enemies will no longer be scared

Sayyiduna Sawban رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘It is likely that other nations will invite each other [to attack you] as the person who eats [invites] others to his bowl. Someone humbly asked, ‘Will it happen due to us being small in number that day?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: You will be in very huge numbers that day (but you will flow like tiny straws in flood water, that is, your bravery, courage and power will come to an end), and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will bring out your fear from the hearts of your enemies and will put laziness and weakness in your hearts. Somebody humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is Wahn [ وھن ]? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The love of the world and fear of death.’ (Sunan Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 150, Hadees 4297)

6. Love for the world is head of sins

Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that he once heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم say in his sermon, ‘The love of the world is the head of all sins.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 250, Hadees 5212)

7. Worth of the world compared to the Hereafter

Sayyiduna Mustawrid Bin Shaddad رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘By Allah Almighty! In comparison to the Hereafter, this world is very short, like a person who dips his finger into the sea and then sees how much water has clung to his finger.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1529, Hadees 2858)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘The comparison mentioned in the Hadees is just for explanation. There is a clear-cut difference between حیاۃُ الدُّنیا, حَیٰوۃٌ فِی الدُّنیا and حیاۃٌ للِّدُّنیا i.e., the life of the world, the life in the world and the life for the world. The life which is in the world but for the Hereafter, not for the world is blessed. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 3)

8. Dead lamb

Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once passed by a dead lamb (a young sheep) so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Will any of you like to have it for one dirham ?’ They said humbly, ‘We do not want to have it in exchange for anything.’ Then he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘By Allah Almighty! The world is even more contemptible to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ than this is to you.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 242, Hadees 5157)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘Nobody buys a dead lamb for even a meagre amount of 25 paisa as its skin is useless and its meat is Haraam. Who will buy it! One should remember the meaning of the world that has just been mentioned. Blessed Sufis have said: Even the reformers of the entire world cannot guide or reform a worldly person, similarly, all the Satans cannot mislead or misguide an ascetic [who gives up the world] Muslim. A worldly person performs even religious activities for the world, whereas a religious person performs even worldly activities for the religion.’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 3)

9. The world is more contemptible than even a mosquito’s wing

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin Sa’d رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘If the importance of the world were equal to even a mosquito’s wing to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would not give even a mouthful of water to any non-Muslim to drink.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 143, Hadees 2327)

10. Curse of being away from worship

Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Your Creator has said, ‘O the son of Aadam! You free

yourself for worshipping Me, I will fill your heart with contentment and hand with sustenance. O the son of Aadam! Do not distance yourself from My worship, (otherwise) I will fill your heart with poverty and will make your hands busy with worldly activities.’ (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, vol. 5, pp. 464, Hadees 7996)

11. Love of the world causes loss in the Hereafter

Sayyiduna Abu Musa Ash’ari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘The one loving the world causes harm to his Hereafter and the one loving the Hereafter causes harm to his world, so you prefer the everlasting (Hereafter) to the mortal (world).’

(Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, vol. 5, pp. 454, Hadees 7967)

12. If someone has one day’s food, so…

Sayyiduna ‘Ubaydullah Bin Mihsan Khatmi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘Whoever begins his morning in the state that his heart is satisfied, body is healthy and he has food for a day, so (it is as if) the world has been gathered for him.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 154, Hadees 2353)

13. The world is accursed

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Beware! The world is an accursed thing and whatever is in the world is also accursed except the remembrance of Allah Almighty, and the thing that brings close to Rab (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 144, Hadees 2329)

14. Allah Almighty makes bondman avoid the world

Sayyiduna Mahmood Bin Labeed رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes His bondman avoid the world as you make your patient avoid eating and drinking [harmful things].’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 321, Hadees 10450)

15. Slave of Dirham is accursed

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘The slave of dirham and dinar is accursed .’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2382)

16. Destruction caused by love for wealth and respect

Sayyiduna Ka’b Bin Malik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘If two hungry wolves are let loose amongst nanny goats, they do not cause as much loss as the greed for wealth and respect causes to the man’s religion.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

17. The world is a prison for Believer

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The world is a prison for a believer and Paradise for a non-Muslim.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1582, Hadees 2956)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

World is like sand!

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! In the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, people who love this world have been strongly condemned. We, therefore, should not only keep on making efforts for the world, but we should also collect virtues for the Hereafter because the world is like sand. No matter how much sand a person gets in her fist, all the sand gets out slowly from the fist in the form of particles and finally, the fist remains empty. Same is the state of this deceitful world.

Do not forget death

Giving warning about the mischiefs of the world, Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written by referring to a pious person: O people! Perform

virtuous deeds in this free time and keep fearing Allah Almighty. Do not be happy with hopes and nor forget your death. Do not get attracted to the world. Undoubtedly, it is deceitful and comes before you after being adorned and puts you in mischief [Fitnah] by its desires. The world becomes adorned for its followers as a bride gets adorned. The world has killed its so many lovers and disgraced those who wanted to get happiness from it. Therefore see it from the viewpoint of reality because it is a place full of troubles. Its Creator has condemned it; its new gets old and the one who desires for it also dies. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you!

Wake up to the fact before this announcement is made: So-and-so is ill and his illness has become severe. Is there any medicine for him? Or is there any way by which he can be taken to a doctor? Now Hakeems [and doctors] are called for you, but the hope of cure dies. It is then said: So-and-so has made a will and accounted for his wealth. Then it is said: Now he has lost his speaking ability; now he does not talk to his brothers and recognize his neighbours. Now your forehead is perspiring; the voice of people weeping has started coming and you have been sure of your death; after you have closed your eyelashes, the presumption of your death turns into confirmation; the tongue is trembling; your siblings are weeping; you are said that this is your such and such son, this is your such and such brother, but you have been stopped from talking. Hence you cannot speak; your tongue has been sealed due to which voice does not come out. You then die and your soul gets out of your body parts completely; it is then taken to the sky. At that time your brothers gather, bring your shroud and you are given Ghusl [ritual bath] and then you are wrapped in a shroud. Now those who inquire after you sit silently and those who are jealous of you also feel relaxed. Your family members turn attention to your wealth. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom vol. 3, pp. 260)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Individual effort - one of 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Please take part in 8 Madani activities. One of the 8 Madani activities is “Individual effort”. It is a Madani request to you to do

Individual effort on new Islamic sisters and persuade them to join the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Help them become Mu’allimah, Muballighah (preacher) and Mudarrisah and increase the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami. Those Islamic sisters who use to be active in the past and are inactive now, especially make individual effort on them and make them join the Madani environment again. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: 99% work of Dawat-e-Islami is possible through Individual effort. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by the virtue of Individual effort, many Islamic sisters have joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

I came out from a sandpit of sins

Dear Islamic sisters! By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, prayers made from the bottom of the heart are answered, entreaties are granted, and wishes are fulfilled. This is a summary of an Islamic sister’s statement from Punjab (Pakistan): Before joining Dawat-e-Islami’s fragrant Madani environment, I was very badly stuck in the sandpit of sins. Although my heart despised sins I saw no way to abstain from them. I had absolutely no religious knowledge. I would often pray, ‘O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I want to be a good person, make me a better person.’ At long last, my prayers were answered and one day I heard the good news of ‘a Dawat-e- Islami Sunnah-inspiring Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’ being held on Sunday 12 th August 2001 at so-and-so place.’

I began to wait anxiously for the announced event. Finally, the day arrived and I eagerly attended the Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’. Hearing the recitation of the Quran and the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I felt peace and pleasure in my heart. When the female preacher of Dawat-e-Islami started the Sunnah-inspiring speech, I listened to it attentively. By the end of the speech my face was dripping with tears. Then the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ was announced which I made a firm intention to attend.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of regularly attending the weekly Ijtima’, I was rescued from the sandpit of sins. Today, I am trying to promote the call to

righteousness amongst Islamic sisters as a responsible person for Madani activities in our locality.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of virtuous deeds

Dear Islamic sisters! Alas! We are engrossed in the love of this world instead of pondering about the Hereafter. We want to spend our lives by having plenty of money, beautiful and splendid palaces. Just ponder, how long will these things benefit us? Shall we take all these things to our grave? Shall we get virtuous deeds in exchange for them in the Hereafter? Of course, no! This bank balance, wealth and property all will be left in the world; nothing will help us in the grave. It will be only our virtuous deeds that will help us there. It will be our virtuous deeds that will help us to succeed in answering the questions of Munkar and Nakeer. It will be our virtuous deeds that will console us during the terror of the grave. It will be our virtuous deeds by virtue of which the narrowness of the grave will also turn to expansion. It will be our virtuous deeds that will shine brightly in the dark grave. It will be our virtuous deeds that will also become a shield against the torment of the grave. It will be our virtuous deeds that will bring us salvation not only in the grave but also after the grave from the heat of the plain of Mahshar [ محشر ] and its thirst. It will be our virtuous deeds that will also help us to pass over the Siraat Bridge successfully. It will be our virtuous deeds that will help us during our accountability and bring salvation from the torment of Hell. Therefore become anxious for virtuous deeds.

Three types of friends

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Three things go with the deceased: (1) His family members (2) his wealth and (3) his deeds. Then two things return and one stays with him. His family members and wealth return, whereas his deeds go with him.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 250, Hadees 6514)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: When a person dies, angels say: ‘ مَا قَدَّمَ ’ i.e. what did he send forward? And people ask: ‘ مَا خَلَّفَ ’ i.e. what did he leave behind? (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 328, Hadees 10475) i.e. at the time of death heirs are anxious for the wealth [he leaves] as to what he is leaving to them. The angels, who come to seize the soul, count his deeds and check his beliefs. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 49)

Dear Islamic sisters! It is wise not to become anxious for the world and its things, but rather become busy performing virtuous deeds. Only the part of the wealth we spend belongs to us out of the wealth for [accumulating] which we end our lives. The part that is left is not ours, but rather it will belong to our heirs.

Remember! This money has not been faithful to anyone; it is really the dirt of hands. For example, if we save millions or rather billions of rupees in our life, even then we will be able to use only the amount of rupees that we can.

It can be understood like this that a person is feeling very hungry; in front of her biryani in a cauldron is cooking; the light pleasant aroma of the biryani is pleasing her heart and mind; her heart is attracted to it. She feels like eating the whole cauldron, but she will not be able to eat after having two or three plates. Sometimes it also happens that we satisfy our appetite, but not the heart. We feel like eating more because it is very tasty, but we do not eat because we cannot eat anymore since our stomach is full. How can we eat more when our stomach is full? Similarly, whether we save millions, or rather billions of rupees, we will spend only that much by which we will be able to eat our fill. Similarly, we will use the length of cloth by which one suit can be made. In short, if we accumulate enormous worldly possessions and wealth, even then we will be able to use as much as we can and the rest will be left in the world. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A bondman keeps on saying ‘my wealth, my wealth’ though he has only three parts in his wealth: First, which he has finished by consuming, second, which he has worn out by wearing and the third, which he has given to someone else (in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and saved. Apart from them whatever he has, all is going to finish and he is going to leave it for other people.’ (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, pp. 1210, Hadees 7420)

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with teachers and students of (women) colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progression!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a blessed Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

Sunnahs and manners of conversation

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of conversation from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Talk smilingly and cheerfully.

٭ With the intention of pleasing Islamic sisters, talk to them with respect.

٭ Whether it is a new-born baby, with good intentions, make it your habit to talk to him with good manners. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, your manners will improve and the child will also learn manners.

٭ During conversation, touching private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, repeatedly touching nose in front of other Islamic sisters, or inserting finger into the nose or ear, repeatedly spitting are disliked acts .

٭ Keep listening to the other Islamic sister calmly as long as she is speaking. It is not a Sunnah to start saying what you want to say by cutting her short.

٭ Do not laugh whilst talking, or rather in any situation.

٭ Excessive talking and laughing destroys a person’s dignity.

٭ When speaking to any Islamic sister, there should be a specific purpose of conversation, and always talk to her according to her psychology and tolerance.

٭ Always avoid using foul and indecent language. Refrain from swearing. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) And Heaven is Haraam [forbidden] for the one using obscene language.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

