اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Journey to Madinah by the True Devotees

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Send abundant Salat upon me on Fridays, for it is the day of presence, angels appear and whoever recites Salat upon me, his Salat is presented to me. The narrator said: I humbly asked, ‘Even after your apparent demise?’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Yes! Indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden the earth to consume the bodies of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُوَالـسَّـلَام, so the Prophets of Allah are alive and are provided with provision.’ (Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 291, Hadees 1637)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Intentions of delivering the Bayan

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the blessed month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam is showering its blessings, this is that blessed month in which millions of fortunate pilgrims are privileged to perform Hajj and attain spiritual bliss by visiting Madinah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا . Undoubtedly, the Zikr of Madinah is a source of comfort, consolation and peace of hearts for the true lovers of the Beloved Rasool. The true lovers of Madinah are always eager to visit Madinah and they remain restless and grieve due to being separated from Madinah Munawwarah. There are so many poetic praises written for beautiful Madinah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا and recited when being separated from it, that no other city of the world nor any land has such poetic praises written for them. Whoever is privileged to visit Madinah Munawwarah just once in his life, he considers himself to be extremely fortunate and believes these precious moments spent in Madinah Munawwarah to be the most memorable and sweetest period of his life. A true lover of the Beloved Rasool states about his most beautiful moments that were spent in the fragrant atmosphere of Madinah Munawwarah in these words:

وُہی ساعَتیں تھیں سُرور کی، وُہی دن تھے حاصِلِ زِندَگی

بَحُضورِ شافِعِ اُمَّتاں مِری جِن دِنوں طَلَبی رہی

Journey to Madinah by Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَلَيۡهِ رَحۡـمَةُ الرَّحۡـمٰن

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن fell severely ill after he had performed the acts of Hajj on his second Hajj. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that due to his prolonged illness he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was extremely worried about visiting the blessed mausoleum of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Upon noticing his continued fever, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made his intention to pay his visit in the same ailing condition; the scholars tried to prevent him by saying: ‘Your medical condition is deteriorating and a long journey is ahead’. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘If you ask me the truth, so the real purpose of my visit is to behold holy Taybah; I started my pilgrimage both times with the same intention; Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid! If there is no such intention so there is no pleasure for me in Hajj alone.’ They then insisted him to consider his condition. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read the following

Hadees: مَنۡ حَجَّ وَلَمۡ يَزُرۡنِيۡ فَقَدۡ جَفَانِيۡ The person who performs Hajj and does not visit me, he is not devoted to me. ’ (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 2, pp. 218, Hadees 2458)

[The scholars] said, ‘You have already visited once in your life.’ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘In my humble opinion, the meaning of the Hadees is not that visiting once is sufficient, though a person has performed Hajj so many times but it is essential to pay a visit with every Hajj; now please make Du’a [for me] so that I may get to the Blessed Raudah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Once I behold the Blessed Raudah I do not bother if I depart from this world at the same time.’ (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 2, pp. 201)

اُس کے طُفیل حج بھی خُدا نے کرا دِیئے اَصلِ مُراد حاضِری اُس پاک دَر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 202)

چَلوں دُنیا سے میں اِس شان سے اے کاش! یَا الله شَہِ اَبرار کی چوکَھٹ پہ سَر ہو میرا خَم مَولٰی

سُنہری جالِیوں کے سامنے اے کاش! ایسا ہو نکل جائے رسولِ پاک کے جلوؤں میں دَم مَولٰی

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 98)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen that the heart of A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن was filled with deep and desperate longing for visiting the blessed court of the Most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted, he could have visited the Blessed Mausoleum of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم some other time, but since the deep devotion and strong attachment to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was his true aim and destination; so, even his critical illness could not prevented him from presenting himself in the blessed court, i.e. the blessed mausoleum of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

In brief! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a profound passion just to have a look at the blessed Mausoleum of the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to fill his eyes with spiritual coolness even if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to risk his life, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not worry. Moreover, his following sentence is also worth mentioning with golden words in history: ‘ If you ask earnestly, my true aim and objective is the destination to Taybah, both the times, I embark on this journey with the same intention, if it is not so مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the bliss & spirituality of my Hajj would go unfulfilled. ’

If only we are also privileged to obtain the true devotion and desperate longing for Madinah Munawwarah. Undoubtedly, those who have the sincere devotion to visit Madinah Munawwarah are certainly blessed with the mercy of the Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they are surprisingly privileged to pay their appearance there despite having no resources and provisions, and it would not be wrong, perhaps if it is said in this way that Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah زَادَھُـمَا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا are the most sacred places where people do not go themselves but they are called instead. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Madinah purifies people

اَلۡمَدِيۡنَةُ تَنۡفِي النَّاسَ كَمَا يَنۡفِي الۡكِيۡرُ خَبَثَ الۡحَدِيۡدِ: i.e., It purifies people as the furnace purifies the iron from rust. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Hajj, Hadees 1382)

2. Glad tiding of intercession

Whoever comes to visit me [my grave] and he comes solely for this purpose then it is necessary upon me to do intercession for him on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, Hadees 13149)

3. Visiting my grave is as if visiting me

مَنۡ حَجَّ فَزَارَ قَبۡرِيۡ بَعۡدَ وَفَاتِيۡ فَكَاَنَّمَا زَارَنِيۡ فِيۡ حَيَاتِيۡ: Whoever performs Hajj after my [apparent] demise, then visits my grave it is as if he has visited me during my lifetime. (Daar Qutni, Kitab-ul-Hajj, Hadees 2667)

10 Advantages of visiting the Blessed Mausoleum

Muballigh-e-Islam Shaykh Shu’ayb Harifeesh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: 10 miracles and honours i.e., for the visitors of the Blessed Mausoleum:

[

1. He will be a high ranked person.

2. He will achieve his aim and objective.

3. His needs will be fulfilled.

4. He will be privileged to spend his donation.

5. He will remain safe and sound from destruction and devastation.

6. He will be immune from defects and flaws.

7. His troubles will be eased.

8. He will be protected from calamities.

9. He will have a good return in Hereafter.

10. He will have blessings of the Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ of the East and West.

(Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 307 to 308)

یا رَبّ!تیرے مَحبوب کا جلوہ نظر آئے اُس نُورِ مُجَسَّم کا سَراپا نظر آئے

اے کاش! کبھی ایسا بھی ہو خواب میں میرے ہُوں جس کی غُلامی میں وہ آقا نظر آئے

تابِندہ مُقدّر کا سِتارہ نظر آئے جب آنکھ کُھلے گُنبدِ خَضرا نظر آئے

جس در کا بنایا ہے گَدا مجھ کو الٰہی اُس دَر پہ کبھی کاش! یہ منگتا نظر آئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how great privileges there are to visit Madinah Munawwarah that by the blessings of this sins get washed away, one is privileged to obtain the intercession of the Prophet of Rahmah, Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the most incredible and excellent thing is that the fortunate person who visits the blessed mausoleum,

it is as if he has been privileged to see the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself. However, we should be waiting impatiently all the time for being called from Madinah Munawwarah in the remembrance of Madinah Munawwarah and every year in the Hajj season, we should convey our special Salam to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم via the pilgrims.

Answer to Salam for those who send Salam

The Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Whoever sends Salam upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ returns my soul to me until I answer to his Salam. (Abu Dawood, Kitab-ul-Manasik, Hadees 2041)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, the renowned commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: Here, soul neither refers to attention nor that sense which keeps one alive, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is always alive. This blessed Hadees does not imply that I remain dead normally and when somebody sends Salat, I respond to him by becoming alive because in every moment, millions of Salat are recited upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then removal and putting the soul back would mean millions of times.

Remember that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has constant and equal attention upon innumerable reciters of Salat and he responds to all Salams like the sun throwing its light upon the entire world at the same time; similarly, the most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم listens to everyone’s Salam and he even does not experience any kind of trouble and why could this not happen, since the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is purified and full of grandeur after all; As Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ listens to all, similarly, the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم listens to Salat-o-Salam of innumerable true devotees at once. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 101)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to some faith-refreshing parables of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی about their blessed journeys to Madinah Munawwarah and be privileged to acquire Madani pearls out of their beautiful travel experiences.

Belief of a blessed companion of the Prophet

Marwaan, the ruler, was going somewhere in the period of his rule and somebody placed his forehead on the blessed grave of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Marwaan said, ‘What are you doing? Don’t you know what you are doing?’ When that person turned to him, Marwaan realised that it was Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I have not come to a stone.’ I have come to the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I have heard the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Do not weep for the Deen if the qualified people were in control, but weep for it if it was under the charge of unqualified ones.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, Hadees 23646)

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt from the abovementioned parable that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had a deep devotion towards the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they had always carried this belief that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is alive in his blessed grave, it is for this reason that Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub Ansari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave a clear reply that he has not approached any stone which is lifeless, which can neither listen nor speak rather he has approached the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who is alive even today in his blessed grave with remarkable powers and granting privileges; so, we should remain firm in the faith that not only the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are alive in their blessed graves.

The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَلۡاَنۡبِيَاءُ اَحۡيَاءٌ فِي قُبُوۡرِهِمۡ يُصَلُّوۡنَ ’ i.e. the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are alive in their graves and offer Salah.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 216, Hadees 3412)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ حَرَّمَ عَلَي الۡاَرۡضِ اَنۡ تَـأۡ كُلَ اَجۡسَادَ الۡاَنۡبِيَاءِ فَنَبِيُّ اللّٰهِ حَيٌّ يُّرۡزَقُ

Meaning: The soil has been prohibited by Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) to consume the bodies of the Prophets (عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـسَّـلَام). The Prophets of Allah stay alive (after their death) and they are provided with Rizq (provision). (Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 291, Hadees 1637)

تُو زِندہ ہے والله تُو زِندہ ہے والله مِرے چشمِ عالَم سے چھُپ جانے والے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 158)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Journey to Madinah by Sayyid Ahmad Kabeer Rifaa’i

Having performed Hajj, Sayyiduna Shaykh Sayyid Ahmad Kabeer Rifaa’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited the Blessed Mausoleum in Madinah Munawwarah and recited two couplets in Arabic:

فِيۡ حَالَ ةِ الۡبُعۡدِ رُوۡحِيۡ كُنۡتُ اُرۡسِلُهَا تُقَبِّلُ الۡاَرۡضَ عَنِّيۡ فَهِيَ نَائِبَتِيۡ

وَهَذِه دَوۡلَ ةُ الۡاَشۡبَاحِ قَدۡ حَضَرَتۡ فَامۡدُدۡ يَمِيۡنَكَ كَيۡ تَحۡظٰي بِهَا شَفَتَي

The translation of these couplets is as follows:

1. From a distance I used to send my soul to your blessed court as my substitute to kiss the blessed Mausoleum.

2. And now I have had the privilege to come to you physically, therefore extend your blessed hand so that I may kiss it. As the couplets ended, the blessed hand emerged from the luminous grave and he kissed the blessed hand. (Al-Haawi lil-Fatawa, vol. 2, pp. 314)

واہ کیا جُود و کَرَم ہے شہِ بَطحا تیرا نہیں سُنتا ہی نہیں مانگنے والا تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Truly our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would always remain impatient and restless to visit Madinah Munawwarah as we have heard about Imam-ul-‘Aarifeen, Sayyid Ahmad Kabeer Rifaa’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he was deeply overwhelmed by great devotion to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and in remembrance of Taybah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would even kiss the threshold of the Blessed Mausoleum of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spiritually if it was not possible physically, despite that, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always wait impatiently for the call from the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with heart and soul and w hen f ortune smiled on him he was called from the blessed court of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he embarked on the blessed journey to Madinah Munawwarah with body and soul. Upon reaching the blessed court, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presented come couplets and verses in poetic form as a gift dedicating them to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It was a day of having good fortune, honour and favour as his beautiful words of verses recited out of intense devotion were accepted in the blessed court and the blessed hand emerged from the luminous grave of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kissed the blessed hand.

لب وا ہیں آنکھیں بند ہیں پھیلی ہیں جھولیاں کتنے مزے کی بھیک ترے پاک در کی ہے

منگتا کا ہاتھ اٹھتے ہی داتا کی دَین تھی دُوری قبول و عرض میں بس ہاتھ بھر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Journey to Madinah by Ameer-e-Millat

Once a true lover of the Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the renowned saint belonging to Punjab (Pakistan), Peer Sayyid Jama’at Ali Shah Muhaddis ‘Ali

Poori عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی went to Madinah Munawwarah, one of his disciples hit a dog with a stone in Madinah Munawwarah; the dog screamed due to the pain. Somebody informed Peer Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that his so-and-so disciple had hit a dog of Madinah Munawwarah. Upon hearing this he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became restless and ordered his disciples to find the dog and bring that dog before him, hence the dog was brought before him. Peer Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood up and started talking to the dog, weeping: O the inhabitant of Madinah Munawwarah! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive this mistake of my disciple! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then sent for roasted meat and milk and fed the dog, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to the dog: Jama’at ‘Ali makes an apology, for Allah’s sake accept his apology. (Sunni ‘Ulama ki Hikayaat, pp. 211)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the profound devotion of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی towards even the animals of Madinah Munawwarah, that they did not even tolerate the ill-mannered behaviour towards them by anybody, it is for this reason that the moment Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to know that one of his disciples who had hit the dog which belonged to the sacred city with a stone, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه grew anxious and immediately ordered for that dog to be brought to him, then everyone witnessed the renowned saint of his time and Shaykh of millions of disciples not only sought forgiveness from that dog for the fault of his disciple but he also fed the dog with a delicious food and was still not satisfied so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه began to seek forgiveness again.

Evil suspicion and doubt

Anybody may have this evil suspicion and doubt that a dog apparently is an ordinary animal and such kind of behaviour towards it and seeking forgiveness from it by a renowned Shaykh on the blessed journey of Madinah Munawwarah sounds weird and is not suitable especially during those most sacred moments.

Answer to this evil suspicion

Remember! Though it is an ordinary animal but beating him unnecessarily is forbidden as it is mentioned on page 660 volume 3 of the 1197-page book Bahar-e-Shari’at, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah: ‘To hit an animal unnecessarily and hitting it especially on the face or head is prohibited according to consensus.’ And so far as concerned to showing graceful behaviour towards a dog, always keep this in mind that when something bears Nisbah (connection), it attains significance of high esteem and it raises its respect to the unlimited measure such as the dog of Ashaab-e-Kahf which had earned great significance due to the blessed company of those people who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is for this reason that the Glorious Quran also mentions it and that dog will also enter Jannah as the renowned commentator of the Glorious Quran, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: There are some animals which will be blessed with Heaven:

1. Qaswa, the she-camel of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

2. The dog of the Ashaab-e-Kahf (the people of the cave).

3. The she-camel of Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

4. The donkey of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 501)

آپ کی گلیوں کے کُتّوں پہ تَصَدُّق جاؤں کہ مدینے کے وہ کُوچوں میں پِھرا کرتے ہیں

آپ کی گلیوں کے کُتّے مجھ سے تو اچّھے رہے ہے سُکوں اُن کو مُیَسَّر سبز گُنبد دیکھ کر

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O pain of Madinah! Stay in my heart

The renowned commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن enjoyed the privilege going for Hajj in 1390 AH. In this regard, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, relating a faith-refreshing incident of the pilgrimage to Madinah Munawwarah: I slipped and fell over in Madinah Munawwarah,

causing my right wrist bone to break; when the pain increased, I kissed the wrist and said: O the pain of Madinah! Stay in my heart as I have found you from the court of the beloved.

تِرا دَرد میرا دَرماں تِرا غم مِری خوشی ہے مجھے دَرد دینے والے تری بندہ پَروَرِی ہے

The pain had relieved that time but my wrist did not work properly. I had the X-ray of my wrist after 17 days from the royal hospital; the X-ray report revealed that the wrist bone broke into two pieces which had much gap in between but I did not receive any medical treatment, then the hand gradually started working. Upon this, a doctor of Madinah Munawwarah named Dr. Isma’eel said that it was a real miracle because the hand would not move from a medical point of view. I have still got that X-ray with me; the bone is still broken; I am writing Tafseer (commentary) with that broken hand; I took only this treatment of my broken hand that I stood at the blessed & Sacred Mausoleum and humbly supplicated that Your Highness! My hand is broken; O the one who joined the broken shin of ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Ateek (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! O the one who joined the broken arm of Mu’aaz Bin ‘Afra (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! Please join my broken hand. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 9, pp. 388)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed the great Madani mind-set of our pious predecessors that they would not only face the trials and tribulations with a cheerful appearance & a smiling face but would also consider these troubles a privilege for them as the abovementioned parable evidently illustrates that Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered a severe wrist bone fracture but instead of crying and wailing he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presumed the pain as a sign of reward for him on behalf of the blessed court of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and set an example of true patience and fortitude. Nevertheless, it was the speciality of these blessed figures that they accepted thorns on the way to Madinah Munawwarah as flowers. If only we are also privileged to have the Sadaqah of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and if only when on the journey

to Madinah Munawwarah, we may attain its plentiful blessings as well as during this we absorb ourselves into the devotion of Makkah and Madinah زَادَھُـمَا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا to such an extent that the trails and troubles become a source of attaining comfort, contentment and bliss, even salvation from the grief and sadness of the world becomes a source of forgiveness of our sins.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Journey to Madinah by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was privileged to embark on the journey of Hajj and Madinah Munawwarah many times. The state he experienced is impossible to describe as it happened, however, we let us listen to a brief description of his journey to Madinah Munawwarah. As the time for his departure to Madinah Munawwarah drew closer, a large crowd came to see him off at the [Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)] airport. As they surrounded him and began reciting Na’at [verses praising & glorifying the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. Na’at full of deep passion and depth of feeling aroused the intense devotion and deep attachment of true devotees and the whole area was fully overwhelmed by grief and sorrow as the Na’at reciters were profusely crying for Madinah Munawwarah. The condition of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه himself was absolutely changed. There was hardly any person that was not in tears [showing their true devotion to Madinah Munawwarah] and the atmosphere was phenomenally spiritual. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was a virtual picture of his following couplets:

آنسوؤں کی لَڑی بن رہی ہو اور آہوں سے پَھٹتا ہو سینہ

وِردِ لَب ہو مدینہ مدینہ جب چَلے سُوئے طیبہ سفینہ

Everyone may not be able to comprehend this unique exhibition of true devotional love because normally visitors of Madinah Munawwarah laugh and rejoice. He has endeavoured to makeup the Madani mind-set of such types of visitors.

ارے زائرِ مدینہ! تُو خوشی سے ہنس رہا ہے! دلِ غمزَدہ جو پاتا تو کچھ اَور بات ہوتی

As the destination drew closer, the intensity of his love was getting higher and higher and as soon as he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه reached the holy city of Madinah Munawwarah he removed his shoes . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is so deep in his devotional love for the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه himself elaborates this in his couplets:

پاؤں میں جُوتا ارے مَحبوب کا کُوچہ ہے یہ ہوش کر تُو ہوش کر غافل! مدینہ آگیا

During Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s Hajj pilgrimage in 1406 AH, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه suffered with a severe flu and had a constant runny nose. Whilst within the bounds of the sacred city of Madinah Munawwarah, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه never blew his nose on the sacred land of Madinah Munawwarah. His each and every act in Madinah Munawwarah displayed his immense respect for the Sacred city. Throughout his journey while in the blessed city of Madinah Munawwarah, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه endeavoured his utmost not to turn his back towards the Grand Green Dome.

مدینہ اس لئے عطّار جان و دل سے ہے پیارا کہ رہتے ہیں مِرے آقا مِرے دِلبر مدینے میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us the true devotees of Madinah Munawwarah for the sake of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and grant us the privilege to have a respectful and humble journey to Madinah Munawwarah along with our Shaykh again and again.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, it is a great privilege to present our Salam in the blessed court, the most Sacred Mausoleum. If only! We also have those

auspicious moments in our lives but remember that whoever is blessed with this privilege must keep in view the manner of presenting himself in the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Because slight carelessness and negligence may cause severe consequences. Let’s listen to some manners and etiquettes of presenting ourselves in the blessed court from the remarkable and renowned book ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’, authored by a Khalifah of A’la Hadrat, Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی .

The manners and etiquettes of presenting oneself in the blessed court

Commenting on the manners and etiquettes of presenting oneself in the blessed court, a Khalifah of A’la Hadrat, Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated:

§ Make the sole intention of appearing in the blessed court.

§ If Hajj is Fard, then you should come to Madinah Munawwarah after performing Hajj. However, if Madinah Tayyibah is on the way of Makkah Mukarramah then performing Hajj without visiting the blessed court is a severe deprivation and hardness of the heart and you should make your presence in the blessed court as the source and Wasilah (means) for acceptance of the Hajj as a worldly and Deeni privilege. And if Hajj is Nafl (supererogatory), then it is permissible to perform Hajj, purify yourself first then appear in the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم or you may appear in the blessed court first and seek Wasilah (means) for the acceptance of Hajj.

§ Continue reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi all the way as Madinah Munawwarah approaches, you should watch with more eagerness and more yearning.

§ When you approach the Haram-e-Madinah, it is better to walk while weeping, with head bowed down, lowered gaze, reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly and if possible walking bare feet.

حَرَم کی زمین اور قدَم رکھ کے چلنا ارے سَر کا مَوقَع ہے او جانے والے

§ Recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly when you look at the Green Dome.

§ Deal with all necessary acts prior to visiting sacred Masjid which may distract your attention, try to finish things early and never indulge in futile talking, immediately make Wudu, cleanse your mouth with a Miswak, make Ghusl, wear new white clothing, apply kohl (Surmah) and fragrance (musk is better).

§ Now devote complete attention towards the blessed Mausoleum with humility and fear, make a weeping face if you do not weep and try to prompt yourself to weep and supplicate to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Upon going through the door of the sacred Masjid, hold for a while as if you are seeking permission, then place your right foot first saying ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ and enter the sacred Masjid.

§ The deep reverence one has to necessarily show at that time is known by every Muslim, protect your eye, ear, tongue, hand, legs, heart and everything from unrelated thoughts, do not get attracted by floral patterns and designs of the sacred Masjid.

§ If you come across any person to whom Salam is necessary then do so but try to avoid people as much as possible so that attention should not get diverted from the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Never utter any word loudly.

§ Believe that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is truly, spiritually and physically alive as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was before his apparent demise. The apparent demise of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and all Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُوَالـسَّـلَام were just for a moment and it was just to fulfil the Divine promise (that every soul shall taste death).

Now with utmost respect, face the Golden Grille standing under the large chandelier directly facing the direction of the silver nails driven upwards into the eastern side of the blessed golden door, with your back towards the Qiblah. Stand at about two yards away with utmost respect facing the blessed face of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as you

§ stand in Salah . In Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri and various other books of Fiqh it is mentioned ي َ قِفُ كَمَا يَقِفُ فِي الصَّلَا ةِ, i.e. s tand in the court of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as one stands in Salah .

§ Remember! The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is alive with his true, real, worldly and bodily life in his sacred mausoleum as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was before his apparent demise. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is watching and is aware of even the thoughts of our hearts.

Beware! Avoid kissing and touching the Golden Grille as it is contrary to manners because our hands are not worthy of touching this sacred Grille. Therefore, stand 2 yards away. Isn’t it a great privilege that the Most Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has let you come closer to his resting place and his merciful sight which was already towards you no matter wherever you were, is now specifically towards you with immense closeness! (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 1224-1225)

Now, with immense reverence and devotion, say Salam in the following words in a moderate voice. Beware that your voice should not be loud and harsh lest all the good deeds are ruined. The voice should also not be too low as it is also contrary to Sunnah.

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْك َ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ ط اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُوْلَ اللّٰہِ ط اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا خَیْرَ خَلْقِ اللّٰہِ ط اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا شَفِیْعَ الْمُذْنِبِیْنَ ط اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَاَصْحٰبِكَ وَ اُمَّتِكَ اَجْمَعِیْنَ ط

Salam be upon you O Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Allah’s mercy and blessings! Salam be upon you O Rasool of Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Salam be upon you O the best of Allah’s creation! Salam be upon you O the one who will intercede for the sinners! Salam be upon you, upon your family, upon your companions and upon your entire Ummah!

§ Continue to say Salam with different titles for as long as you can do so with full concentration. You should then convey Salam on behalf of all those who have requested you to do so. Continue to make as much Du’a as possible and go on begging him for intercession in these words: اَسۡئَلُكَ الشَّفَاعَ ةَ يَ ـ ا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰهِ, i.e. I am begging for your intercession, Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Do not waste even a single moment for as long as you are blessed with the stay in Madinah Munawwarah.

§ If possible, spend most of your time in Masjid-un-Nabawi in the state of purity, offering Salah, reciting the Glorious Quran and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and making Zikr . Worldly conversations should be avoided in any Masjid, especially in this Holy Masjid.

§ How wonderful it would be for you to be blessed with keeping a fast in Madinah Munawwarah, especially on a hot summer day as intercession is promised to the one doing so!

§ Every good deed performed here is equivalent to fifty thousand good deeds. Therefore, make plenty of efforts to perform worship. Do reduce your intake. As long as possible, give charity especially to the deserving locals.

§ As it is an act of worship to look at the Holy Ka’bah and the Holy Quran, it is also an act of worship to look at the blessed mausoleum. Therefore, reap its blessings reverently in abundance and present Salat and Salam.

§ After the five daily Salahs or every morning and evening, present yourself in front of the Golden Grilles in the direction of the blessed face of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and present your Salam.

§ Whether you are in the city or in the suburbs, whenever you see the Grand Green Dome, turn towards it immediately and recite Salat and Salam with hands respectfully folded. Do not proceed without doing this as this is contrary to manners.

§ Do not make Tawaf [i.e. move around] the blessed mausoleum. Do not prostrate (Sajdah) nor bow down like Ruku’. The reverence for the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lies in obeying him.

(Derived from Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 1227-1228)

Introduction of the book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat’

Dear Islamic brothers! For learning the amazing parables of true devotees about their journeys to Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah and for arousing the deep yearning and eagerness for Madinah Munawwarah go through the remarkable book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . This productive and very informative book contains 51 parables of visitors of Madinah Munawwarah, 12 parables of the highly renowned and virtuous figure of Islamic history Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, 42 parables of pilgrims, 6 parables of pious people, 17 parables of distinguished scholars belonging to the Ahl-us-Sunnah, 7 parables of genies and 9 parables of animals which are full of wisdom as well as loads of other information have also been added. It is a Madani request to all Islamic brothers to obtain this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and also present it to others as a gift according to your ability. You can read it online from our website (www.dawateislami.net) or you can also download it in PDF format.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard the blissful and delightful parables of true lovers of the beloved Rasool about their Journeys to Madinah Munawwarah. Through these beautiful parables we have learnt that our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to remain impatient and restless for going to the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we have also come to know that to see the blessed green dome and the Blessed Mausoleum of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was more dearer to them than their lives. Whenever our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were privileged to visit Madinah Munawwarah, they would pay such a unique presence in the blessed court full of reverence and a feeling of profound awe that would leave others surprised and shocked and if they experienced any hardship during the blessed journey to the sacred city of ‘Madinah’, they would feel privileged and face it with a cheerful and smiling face, they even regarded the troubles as a gift on the part of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they would give high esteem and honour to even ordinary things of Madinah Munawwarah due to its Nisbah (connection), in case of a delay of an invitation from the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they would kiss the blessed threshold spiritually and upon being privileged to visit, they would embark on the blessed journey with tearful eyes; furthermore, having reached that sacred land they avoided using a ride even removing their shoes keeping in view the respect of the sacred soil of Madinah Munawwarah.

Certainly, these beautiful parables carry numerous Madani pearls for all of us especially for those fortunate people who are about to go to the blessed court, the Blessed Mausoleum. Therefore, all Islamic brothers are requested, when they are privileged to visit Madinah Munawwarah to keep these Madani pearls in view which have been described in the light of Bahar-e-Shari’at . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege all of us to pay a respectful and humble visit to Madinah Munawwarah along with our Shaykh.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah

اَلْـحَمْـدُلـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A Majlis of Dawat-e-Islami namely ‘Majlis Maktubat & Ta’wizat-e-Attariyyah’ is busy providing free spiritual treatments to the troubled Muslims in the form of Ta’wizat permitted by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Furthermore, Istikharah [1] is also conducted, benefitting thousands of Muslims daily. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Without exaggeration, this Majlis has delivered millions of Ta’wizat and consoling, condoling and comforting letters to the Muslims. Moreover, according to a survey, (made on 17-04-2014) the number of Ta’wizat stalls (for Islamic brothers) set up daily within and outside Pakistan is more than 680 and 180 respectively. Almost 250,000 patients are being benefitted by this Majlis monthly. Almost more than 70,000 Maktubat-e-‘Attariyyah (including the ones delivered by post and mailed via internet) are dispatched monthly. Similarly, almost more than 6 million Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah and Wazaaif are given yearly.

By the blessings of the stalls of Ta’wizat-e-‘A tt a riyyah, almost more than 100 Madani Qafilahs (for 3 days) travel monthly and almost ten to eleven thousand new Islamic brothers attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Likewise, more than 26,000 people are initiated into the spiritual order of Silsilah ‘Aaliyyah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Attariyyah monthly. The seekers of Ta’wizat should attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ held in their own city and get Ta’wizat from the stalls set up in the Ijtima’. There are several Madani incidents of Ta’wizat-e-A tt ariyyah (where people are relieved from their problems).

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Take part in 12 Madani activities

For refraining from sins, carrying out virtues and arousing the yearning for Makkah and Madinah, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and travel in Madani Qafilahs with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool; furthermore, commit yourself to take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Sada-e-Madinah is also one of the 12 Madani activities. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the term Sada-e-Madinah refers to ‘awaking Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr’. Awaking Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr is (undoubtedly) an act of great reward and something that every Muslim should definitely do. It is a Sunnah of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to wake up people on the way when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would exit his house for Salat-ul-Fajr even after the ‘call to prayer’ (Azan), if he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ finds anybody sleeping in the Masjid, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would wake him up. (At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263)

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has also bestowed his disciples and followers with this Madani activity of ‘Sada- e- Madinah’ out of the Madani In’amaat. Undoubtedly, daily hundreds of Muslims wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr acting upon the Sunnah of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and they collect loads of virtues as well. Let’s listen to a Madani parable:

Drinker became Muazzin

Here is a summary of a delightful parable related by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India. He has stated: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was a great sinner. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, call people names, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also a compulsive gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and

I accepted his invitation. I immediately travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. In the company of the lovers of the beloved Rasool, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, a compulsive gambler and drinker like me who did not use to offer any Salah not only started offering Salah but was also inspired to do Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ As a result of my individual efforts, 30 Islamic brothers have so far travelled with Madani Qafilahs. I am now a Muazzin in a Masjid and busy making efforts for Madani activities.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about drinking of water

1. Two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a. Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing, away from the vessel). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُلِلّٰهِ when you finish.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

a. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breath into the vessel or to blow into it. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akim-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـحَـنَّان has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breath into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breathe, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should breath moving the mouth away from the utensil (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any verse of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of cure.

1. Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking.

2. Drink water in small sips, large sips causes damage to the liver.

3. Drink water in three breaths.

4. Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

5. Look into the utensil before drinking it so that nothing harmful is in it.

(Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

6. Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُلِلّٰهِ after drinking.

7. The leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

8. The leftover of a Muslim is cure [1] .

9. After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-Inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afzal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afzal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Prophet صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become obligatory for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الۡحَلِيۡمُ الۡكَرِيۡمُ

سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبۡعِ وَ رَبِّ الۡعَرۡشِ الۡعَظِيۡم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and the magnificent ‘Arsh.

