اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Upbringing of Offspring and Responsibilities of Parents

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ فِیْ کُلِّ یَوْمٍ خَمْسَ مِاءَۃَ مَرَّۃٍ لَمْ یَفْتَقِرْاَبَدًا

i.e. The one who would recite Durood upon me five hundred (500) times a day will never become destitute. (Al-Mustatraf, vol. 2, pp. 508)

O devotees of Rasool! [Before listening to the Bayan], first of all let’s make good intentions for attaining Divine pleasure and earning rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall, etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a fact that a good upbringing of parents makes children good and a bad upbringing makes them bad. One shall never be lazy in relation to the Madani upbringing of children. Those parents who do not bring their children up in a good manner have to face disgrace and humility. Therefore, while proving to be good parents, teach your children the love of

the Holy Quran and to act upon its commandments. May Allah Almighty enable parents to bring their children up according to Shari’ah.

Our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to bring their children up according to the Islamic teachings. Let us listen to a faith-refreshing parable of a pious father and his well brought up daughter.

Well brought up daughter of Shaykh Kirmaani

Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a righteous individual. His daughter was good looking as well as possessed a noble character. When she got to the age of getting married, a marriage proposal came for her from the royal court. Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked for a time of three (3) days and started looking for a pious young man by visiting every Masjid. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came across a young man who offered his Salah properly. Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him: ‘Are you married?’ He replied: ‘No’.

Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: ‘Do you want to get married? The girl recites the Holy Quran and punctually observes Siyam and offers Salah. She is beautiful and possesses a noble character.’ He said: ‘Who will marry his daughter to me?’ Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘I will. Here, keep some Dirhams. Buy a roti [loaf of bread] for one dirham, curry for one dirham and fragrance for one dirham.’

This is how Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه got his pious daughter married to that young man. When the bride came to the house of the groom, she saw a dry roti placed over the water vessel.

She asked: ‘What is this roti for?’ The groom replied: ‘This is the stale roti of yesterday that I kept for [today’s] Iftar.’ Listening to it, the bride intended to leave the house. Seeing this, the groom said: ‘I knew the daughter of Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could not stay in the house of a poor person like me.’ The bride replied: ‘I do not intend to leave from here due to your poverty; rather, I intend to leave because your trust upon Allah Almighty seems to be very weak. I am surprised at my father that how did he deem you to be an abstinent and pious person?’ Listening to it, the groom became extremely remorseful and said: ‘I apologise on this weakness of mine.’ The

bride replied: ‘Your excuse is with you. However, I cannot stay in a house where food for next meal is stored. Now, either I will stay here or this roti.’ The groom instantly gave that roti in charity. (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 192)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that how beautifully the renowned Islamic saint of his time, Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه brought his daughter up. His daughter, who was beautifully brought up by him, had absolute trust in Allah Almighty. She did not get upset due to not having adequate facilities or abundance of wealth in her husband’s house, but if she did complain, it was for the fact that why was a roti saved for Iftar?

Undoubtedly, she would have been blessed with such Madani mind-set due to the Madani upbringing of Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who himself too was a righteous saint having absolute trust in Allah Almighty. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه provided a Madani upbringing to his daughter and chose a pious match for her so that their future generations could also attain the blessings of piety and abstinence. Indeed, if a person is pious himself, then his future generations also benefit from his piety.

Dear Islamic brothers! Extreme heedlessness is observed in our society in terms of the upbringing of children. Perhaps, the reason for this is that the parents themselves lack the knowledge of bringing children up. How can one bring others up when he himself is unaware of Shar’i rulings and needs to learn how to bring others up?

Therefore, when such parents start getting marriage proposals for their daughters, their priority is that the boy should be rich, degree holder of different worldly arts and sciences and belongs to a modern family. No matter even if he does not offer a single Salah, commits sins openly, earns Haraam livelihood, is known for cheating people, does not even know the fundamental Shar’i rulings; in short, he does not act upon the Islamic teachings.

Whereas, if someone suggests marrying the daughter to someone whose income might be less but is 100% Halal, who is capable of fulfilling the rights

of wife, who abstains from sins and is religious, who possesses knowledge and is a practicing Muslim, who is an embodiment of modesty and Sunnahs, who is enriched with the treasure of the fear of Allah Almighty and devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who is Imam of Masjid, Muazzin, Qaari or associated with the Madani environment, then مَعَاذَاللّٰہ strange and inappropriate phrases are said about him. Such as: “Well! Our daughter will die of hunger if she marries him”. “He will keep our daughter imprisoned in the house”. “He will keep our daughter in veil from head to toe.” مَعَاذَاللّٰہ

Remember! Good parents always look for a religious match for their daughters. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also commanded to marry a religious person.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘When such a person sends you a marriage proposal whose religiousness and character are liked by you, then perform the Nikah [marriage]. If you do not do this, then it will create mischief and major evils in the land.’ (Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 344, Hadees 1086)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘i.e. when you find an appropriate religious match for your daughter, then do not delay marrying your young daughter out of the greed of wealth and waiting for a millionaire; because if girls are not married due to waiting for the rich matches, then a lot of girls will be left unmarried and a lot of boys will be left unmarried on the other hand, which will become a cause of spreading adultery. Due to adultery, the girl’s family will be disgraced and as a result, a fight will break out between the families resulting in far serious consequences which are quite apparent nowadays. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 8)

O devotees of Rasool! Out of the millions of bounties blessed to us by Allah Almighty, one great bounty is also offspring. Offspring is such a bounty which brings about happiness in the home. Pious offspring is such a blessing that becomes a support for their parents in their old age. Noble offspring becomes a means of salvation for their parents after their demise. When Allah Almighty blesses someone with this blessing (of offspring), then the parents get overjoyed. However at the same time, their test also begins. It is

now up to the parents whether they succeed in this test by providing their children with a Madani upbringing or not.

Remember! Children normally imitate the habits of their parents. If the parents are steadfast on Shar’iah and passionate about acquiring Islamic knowledge, then their children also tread on the path of piety and become a means for their parents’ salvation, forgiveness and good name. On the other hand, if parents are used to bad habits themselves, then their children will also get used to the same bad habits. Such offspring does not become a means of salvation, but a means of destruction.

Remember! Correct upbringing of children is the responsibility of both parents. Whereas, the father tries to avoid this responsibility by making an excuse of earning livelihood and shifts this responsibility onto the mother. And the mother considers the father to be the actual responsible for the upbringing of children while presenting the excuse of carrying out domestic chores. As a result, such offspring goes out of the control of parents and becomes a means of trouble for them.

Therefore, parents should fulfil their responsibility by playing their role in making their children pious and prominent figure of the society from their childhood, as whatever is taught in the childhood embeds firmly in the nature of the child.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اَلْعِلْمُ فِی صِغَرِهِ كَالنَّقْشِ عَلَى الحَجَرِ ’ i.e. acquiring knowledge in childhood is (firm) like engraving on stone.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 1, pp. 333, Hadees 5015)

Let us listen to 4 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the upbringing of children:

1. (When) the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following blessed Ayah:

قُوْۤا اَنْفُسَكُمْ وَ اَهْلِیْكُمْ نَارًا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Save yourselves and your families from the Fire. (Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, Ayah 6)

Then the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How shall we save our household from the fire?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Command them to perform those actions that are liked by Allah Almighty and refrain them from those actions that are disliked by Allah Almighty.’ (Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 8, pp. 225)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘Educate your children about three traits. (1) Love of your Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (2) Love of Ahl-e-Bayt and (3) Teaching of the Holy Quran. (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 25, Hadees 311)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘Offspring has the right upon the father that the father keeps a good name for him and teaches him good manners. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 6, 6, 8658/400)

4. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘No father has given his child any such gift that is better than good manners.’ (Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 383 Hadees 1959)

In relation to this blessed Hadees, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Good manners refer to making the child religious, pious and abstinent. What else would be a better gift for the child than this as it is useful for the child in this world as well as in the Deen (religious matters). Parents should not depart this life by making their children only rich, but they should depart this life by making them pious which would also benefit them in their graves too. As in the grave, the deceased receives the reward of the righteous actions of the living offspring. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 565)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The need of Islamic teaching and Madani upbringing of children that exists today perhaps never existed before. Because satanic actions and devices used to commit sins are prevalent all around today. Moreover, people are getting more inclined towards providing only worldly education to their children; whereas in the past, more importance was given in providing religious education to the children. Perhaps this was the reason that in those days, children also used to be pious and obedient along with

their parents. However now, priority is being given to the worldly education. This is the reason why high fees are paid in schools and every facility is provided there so children’s worldly future could get better. They get a decent job. They accumulate a lot of wealth. To the extent that for the accomplishment of this purpose, parents even send their children abroad for studies.

After acquiring worldly education in this manner, the child indeed becomes a prominent worldly person, good businessman and a modern person, but does not become pious, devotee of Rasool and a practicing Muslim.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Generally, every parent have a heartily desire that “their children remain obedient to them. They treat them nicely. They become pious. They become honourable and possess a noble character in the society.” But the result is often contrary. Why? Because those parents who are unaware of the basic Islamic principles of upbringing children, who are not practicing Muslims and are deprived of the blessings of a good environment, how come they would be able to provide a good upbringing to their children?

Perhaps this is the very reason why the standards of upbringing children today have become such that if the child does not do any work, takes a day off from school or tuition centre or academy or becomes lazy in this regard, if he does not agree to wear a specific dress or shoes to a function when told to do so, or if he says “ifs and buts” in the worldly matters or becomes obstinate, then he is told off. He is severely scolded. He is given long lectures.

But if the same child misses Salah or does not offer Salah with Jama’at, takes a day off or goes late to Madrasah or Jami’ah, wanders around the entire night, establishes unlawful relationships with non-Mahrams through mobile phone and social media, carries out inappropriate use of mobile phone or internet, falls prey to unlawful love, watches films and dramas, listens to music, adopts immoral fashions, does not bother about Halal and Haraam, drinks alcohol, gambles, lies, backbites, pays or receives bribes, adopts impermissible fashions, sits in the company of people with corrupt beliefs,

wastes money in useless activities, in short, he indulges in various types of evils, then let alone inquiring about those evils, parents do not even consider it to be bad at all.

It is also commonly observed that if somebody tries to reform them, then the parents say: “He is still young”, “he is naïve”, “he will understand gradually”, “you should not be that harsh on kids”, etc.

When the same child becomes a means of disgrace for the parents, family and society due to the lack of Islamic upbringing and too much leniency, when he stares in the eyes of the parents or shouts at them for them scolding him or not giving him money, then at that time, they recall the advice of their well-wishers. Now the parents grieve for their child’s reform, make Du’as and request others to make Du’as, but all the efforts go in vain. By now, things have gone beyond the limits and one gets nothing except for regretting. So due to slight heedlessness of parents, a precious diamond gets wasted.

What kind of consequences parents have to face due to not providing a Madani upbringing to their children and being too lenient with them, let us listen to an admonitory account regarding it and gather Madani pearls of admonition from it.

Does even son beat his father?

It is stated in Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen: A person came to Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a renowned Islamic scholar of “Samarqand”, and said: “My son has beaten me.” Surprised, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: “Does even son ever beat his father?” He replied: “Yes! This is exactly what happened.” Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: “Did you teach him religious knowledge and manners?” He replied: “No”. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: “Did you teach him the Holy Quran?” He replied: “No”. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then asked: “Then what does he do?” He replied: “He does farming.” Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: “Do you know why he has hit you?” He replied: “No”.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said while reforming him: “May be in the morning, when he was heading towards the fields while riding upon his donkey, then bull would be in front of him and dog behind him. He doesn’t know how to recite the

Holy Quran so that he could attain some spirituality. He must be murmuring something out of heedlessness. In the meanwhile, you would have come in front of him. He would have thought that the bull has come in the way. So in order to drive him out of the way, he would have struck you with something on your head! Be grateful that your head did not split open.’ (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 68)

Now, let us listen to a narration and develop a mind-set to provide Madani upbringing to our children.

Virtuous deeds to the size of mountain went in vain

(On the Day of Judgement), wife and children of a person will plea in the court of Allah Almighty: ‘O our merciful Lord! Make us get our right from this person because he did not teach us the rulings of our religion, and he used to feed us Haraam but we were unaware of it.’ Therefore, he will be beaten so much due to (earning and feeding) Haraam livelihood that his flesh will fall off. Then, he will be brought towards Meezan [the scale]. Angels will bring his virtuous deeds to the size of mountains. Then one person from his household will take some share from his virtuous deeds. Then another person will come forward and he will fill his shortage (of good deeds) from his virtuous deeds. (This way, all his virtuous deeds will be taken away by his household). Now he will address his household and say: ‘I am burdened with only those sins that I committed for your sake.’ The angels will announce: ‘This is the person whose all virtuous deeds have been taken away by his household and he entered Hell because of them.’ (Qurra-tul-‘Uyoon, pp. 401)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that what great disgrace and humility those parents face who do not provide their children with a Madani upbringing, and do not impart knowledge and teach manners to them. Therefore, while proving to be good parents, teach your children the love of the Holy Quran and a mind-set to act upon its commandments.

Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The first element is to teach your children the Holy Quran and the fundamental aspects of Deen. Such as Sawm, Salah, purity, buying and selling, wages and rulings regarding other matters that one comes across on daily basis. Moreover, they shall be acquainted with such knowledge that in case they are unfamiliar with it, they indulge in committing sins by acting upon those matters that are against the Shar’iah.

If you see that the child is inclined towards acquiring knowledge and is intelligent, then what else is better than serving Islamic knowledge? And if one does not possess this power, then after teaching him the correct beliefs and necessary rulings, he may make him excel in any permissible profession.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 2, pp. 256; summarised)

After teaching beliefs and necessary rulings to girls, one shall make them learn skills from some woman such as sewing, embroidery, etc., that women are often in need of. Moreover, one shall make efforts to teach them the manners of carrying out domestic chores; as an ill-mannered woman cannot spend the life the way a well-mannered woman can.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 2, pp. 257)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, ‘Allamah Qurtubi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘It is Fard upon us to give Islamic education to our children and household, teach them good things, and teach them those manners and skills without which one cannot survive.’ (Tafseer Qurtubi, vol. 9, pp. 148)

Even in today’s sinful era, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ such parents do exist who bow their heads down in front of the command of Shar’iah, bear the taunts of the society with full courage and determination, reform their children, bring them up according to the Islamic values, and strive to make this world and the Hereafter better for themselves and for their children. This is the very reason that some children of people possessing such Madani mind-set become Haafiz-e-Quran, some get the privilege of becoming a Qaari of the Holy Quran, some become a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami spreading the call to righteousness, and some spread Islamic knowledge by becoming an Islamic scholar or Mufti of Islam and provide Shar’i guidance to the beloved Ummah.

Those parents whose children may be serving Islam in such way will be very well aware of the fact that the benefits of making children doctors and engineers are limited to this world only, whereas pious offspring prove to be beneficial even after the death of the parents.

Sayyiduna Buraydah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘The one who recites the Holy Quran, learnt it and acted upon it, his parents will be made to wear such a crown of Noor on the Day of Judgement whose shine will be like the sun. Moreover, his parents will be made to wear two Heavenly garments whose price cannot be paid by this world. They will humbly ask: ‘Why have we been made to wear these garments?’ They will be told: ‘Due to your children holding firm onto the Holy Quran.’ (Al-Mustadrak, Kitab Fazaail-ul-Quran, vol. 2, pp. 278, Raqm 2132)

At another place, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty will elevate the rank of a pious person in Paradise. He will humbly say: O my Lord! How did I attain this rank?’ Allah Almighty will say: ‘Your son has supplicated for your forgiveness.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 440, Hadees 2354)

O devotees of Rasool! Remember! Parents can attain these virtues only if they themselves possess knowledge, are practicing Muslims, act upon Sunnahs, possess the fear of Allah Almighty and have love for the Islamic knowledge. If we also want to adopt these attributes, then we shall associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will make our future generations pious.

“Madani Dars”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Along with giving the Madani mind-set of “reforming ourselves and the people of the entire world” to Muslims, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, also in particular gives a mind-set of bringing children up according to the Islamic values. Therefore, we shall also associate ourselves with this Madani environment and must spend at least some time in the 12 Madani activities. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has persuaded us to spend at least 2 hours everyday in

Madani activities. Undoubtedly, more time one gives, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ higher the opportunities will be for him to earn reward.

Out of the 12 Madani activities, one daily Madani activity is “Madani Dars”, which is an extremely useful source for acquiring and teaching Islamic knowledge. Except for a few, delivering Dars from all the books and booklets of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, especially from “ Faizan-e-Sunnat ” volume one and the following chapters of “ Faizan-e-Sunnat ” volume two (1) “Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society” and (2) “Call to Righteousness” in Masjid, Chowk (square), market, shop, office and home etc., is called as “Madani Dars” under the organisational terminology.

In order to acquire further useful information regarding the Madani activity of “Madani Dars”, read the booklets “Masjid Dars” and “Chowk Dars” published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

٭ Madani Dars is an extremely beautiful Madani activity. Due to its blessings, one gets the privilege of visiting Masjid frequently.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Dars, one gets the opportunity of studying.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Dars, Sunnahs of meeting Muslims and saying Salaam prevail.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Dars, one can impart the precious Madani pearls filled with Islamic knowledge from the books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه on different topics to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Madani Dars is extremely useful in making non-Salah offering people observe punctuality in Salah.

٭ Madani Dars is also a great means of conveying call to righteousness to those who are deprived of coming to the Masjid.

٭ Besides Masjid, if Madani Dars is also delivered at the square, market, shop, etc., then by its blessings, the Madani environment of the Madani

movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami will also get publicised and acclaimed over there too.

Due to the blessings of Madani Dars, different books and booklets of Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه will get introduced and publicised. Let us listen to a faith refreshing parable regarding “Madani Dars”.

Attained salvation from bad companies

The character of an Islamic brother of Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore, Pakistan) had become so worse due to bad companies that neither did he have any affection towards children nor did he care about respecting elders. He had developed the habit of arguing and quarrelling upon everything. To the extent that even his own family had become fed up of him due to his bad habits.

One day, he was blessed with the privilege of attending the “Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat ”. Thereafter, he started attending the Dars regularly. This way, due to the blessings of the “Madani Dars”, he repented of his past sinful life, abandoned his evil companies and associated himself with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! In relation to the upbringing of children, practices of our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and Muslims of the past is something for us to follow. They were well aware of how to bring their children up and used to appreciate the bounty of offspring in true sense as they themselves were also brought up by some righteous parents. These individuals were keen on performing righteous actions themselves as well as persuade their children to tread on the path of piety too. This was the very reason why their children used to be obedient to them, apple of their eyes, peace of their hearts and would create a positive image of them in the society.

For persuasion, let us listen to 2 faith refreshing accounts and gather the Madani pearls acquired from them.

1. Advice of a villager woman

Sayyiduna Imam Asma’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I saw a villager woman who said to her son while advising him: Son! Ability to act [upon an action] is from Allah Almighty. And I advise you that:

٭ Keep refraining from tale-telling because it creates enmity between two tribes. It separates friends.

٭ Refrain from looking for flaws in people. May it not be the case that you also become flawed.

٭ Do not show-off in worship.

٭ Refrain from being stingy in spending wealth.

٭ Learn a lesson from others’ consequences.

٭ Act upon the action of people that you like and refrain from what you do not like of them, because a person cannot see his own flaws.

Then the woman became silent. Then I said: ‘O villager woman! I give you an oath in the name of Allah Almighty! Advise further.’ She asked: ‘O the dweller of city! Do you like what a villager said?’ I said: ‘By Allah Almighty! I liked it.’ She said:

٭ Son! Refrain from deception. Because the matters you deal in with people, deception is worst among them all.

٭ Adopt generosity, knowledge, humbleness and modesty. Now, I hand you over to Allah Almighty. May peace be [showered] upon you. May Allah Almighty have mercy upon you.

٭ Remember! Backbiting is a greater sin than even fornicating 30 times in the state of Islam. (Aansu’on ka Darya, pp. 249)

2. Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat and upbringing of children

Mother of the children (wife) of Muballigh-e-Dawat-e-Islami and member of the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura, Haji Abu Junayd Zam Zam Raza Attari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that late Haji Zam Zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loved his children

immensely. When his daughters would come home, then despite all his commitments, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would come home to meet them. If he would talk a bit strictly while reforming someone at home due to their mistake, then he would clarify at the same time that “I am explaining you guys for the salvation of the Hereafter and for your own good.”

While eating food, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would get kids to recite the Du’as and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would eat according to Sunnah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would take his sons with him for Salah as much as possible. When he would leave to travel with a Madani Qafilah, then he would emphasize on instructing them to offer Salah. Moreover, even during the travel, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would inquire through S.M.S whether they have offered Salah or not. Even in the state of illness, he said to his elder son: ‘As soon as I recover, we both will اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ travel with Madani Qafilah.’

O devotees of Rasool! The aforementioned accounts contain Madani pearls of advice for both, parents and children. It is a fact that good parents never become heedless from the Madani upbringing of their children. Rather, they keep striving to advise and reform them. If they themselves offer Salah, act upon Madani In’amaat and Sunnahs, then they keep giving the same mind-set to their children too and also keep a check and balance on them. Anyhow, it is now up to parents to decide whether they provide good upbringing to their children and make them a means of Sadaqah-e-Jariyah [continuous reward] for themselves or make them a means of destruction for their Hereafter by giving them complete freedom.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Misuse of internet and social media and its negative impact on children

Dear Islamic brothers! Every wise person knows well the moral and social harms of internet and social media. There was a time when the harmful impact and horrendous consequences of TV and cinema were a means of concern for the society, and television was considered to be most harmful to the health. But today, mobile and internet are most harmful to the health

and are destroying the moral ethics. Along with keeping an eye on children’s activities, parents should also do their Madani upbringing through sound wisdom. Especially the children that are young, they should stop them from the evils of mobile phone and internet. May it not be the case that their morals and character also get destroyed. If this happens, then trust me that children and parents both will have to face disgrace and humiliation everywhere. In order to make your child a prominent figure of the society and a good Muslim, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and keep your children associated with this Madani environment as well.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, a great emphasis is given on the religious and moral upbringing in the light of Quran and Sunnah. Therefore, enrol your young children into Madrasa-tul-Madinah or Dar-ul-Madinah, and the elder ones into Jami’a-tul-Madinah and make them a practicing Haafiz-e-Quran and Islamic scholar.

Majlis Jami’aat-ul-Madinah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is serving Sunnahs in more or less 107 departments. One department out of them is “Majlis Jami’aat-ul-Madinah”. As per the heartily desire of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, in order to spread the Islamic knowledge, first branch of Jami’a-tul-Madinah under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami was opened in 1995 in the Godhra Colony area of New Karachi (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, up to now (14 th March 2019), Jami’aat-ul-Madinah have been established in 11 countries. Those countries are Pakistan, India, South Africa, England, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Kenya, USA, Mozambique, Mauritius and Bangladesh. In these Jami’aat-ul-Madinah, thousands of Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters are not only quenching their thirst of Islamic knowledge themselves but are also striving to impart knowledge to others too.

Along with equipping students with religious education, they are also trained from a moral and spiritual aspect as well in Jami’aat-ul-Madinah. While

expressing his love for these students, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه states: ‘I love the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah of Dawat-e-Islami immensely, and I supplicate for my forgiveness through their sake.’

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In addition to the five daily Salahs, the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah also offer the Nawafil of Salat-ut-Taubah, Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht. Therefore, enrol your children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah and make your and their Dunya and afterlife better.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Due to being away from Islamic knowledge, there are also some parents in our society who not only themselves remain deprived of performing virtuous deeds but also try for their children to follow into their footsteps too. If fortunately, their children tread on the path of piety, then unfortunately such parents make fun of them, create hurdles for them in different ways and try to deviate them away from such path. Having enough of being taunted everyday, the child often adopts the evil path and develops the habits of evil people by staying in their company. He destroys his Dunya and Hereafter by being used to swearing, quarrelling and falling prey to the destruction of drugs. In this regard, let us listen to an admonitory account and gather Madani pearls of admonition.

A heart-rending incident

On page 546 of ‘ Nayki ki Dawat ’ [Call to Righteousness] Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: A summary of the statement of an Islamic brother is as follows: A young man from Hyderabad (Zam Zam Nagar, Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh, Pakistan) associated himself with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami probably in 1988. Besides offering Salah regularly, he grew a beard and started wearing an ‘Imamah. He also started attending Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults). He belonged to a modern and rich family which did not welcome the Madani

reformation that took place in his life. Therefore, he was opposed, oppressed and obstructed in many ways. He used to be forced into leaving the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Helpless, he sometimes would plead with his family, ‘Do not force me into leaving the Madani environment, or else, you will have to regret.’ But no one listened to him. He was opposed for a continuous period of almost three years.

At last, he surrendered to the demand of his family, shaving his beard and distancing himself from the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. As his elder brother was a doctor, he was also enrolled in a medical college in Sardarabad, Faisalabad (Punjab, Pakistan) in order to become a doctor. During his stay at the hostel, he started smoking Charas (cannabis) due to the company of bad friends. As a result, he fell seriously ill and was taken back to Hyderabad by his family. His father spent hundreds of thousands of rupees on his medical treatment, but he did not recover got reformed and started even taking heroin. Due to excessive addiction, he became a skeleton, converting the whiteness of his teeth into a dark film of drugs. He started behaving like a mad person.

By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his father has now associated himself with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. He deeply regrets, saying, ‘If I had realized the importance of Dawat-e-Islami that time and had not prevented my son from its Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, I would not perhaps have witnessed these sad days, but it is no use crying over spilt milk.’

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to give Madani upbringing to our children as per Islamic rules!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Sunnahs and manners of walking

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of walking from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah number 37:

وَ لَا تَمْشِ فِی الْاَرْضِ مَرَحًاۚ-اِنَّكَ لَنْ تَخْرِقَ الْاَرْضَ وَ لَنْ تَبْلُغَ الْجِبَالَ طُوْلًا(۳۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; you can never split the earth, nor be as high as the mountains.

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 37)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said: A man covered with two shawls was strutting and was puffed up with pride. He was made to sink into the earth, and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

٭ When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم walked, he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would lean a little bit forward as if he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah lit-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Raqm 118)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of walking will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 14 March 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of walking

٭ If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Don’t be so fast that people start looking at you thinking that where is he going in such haste. Do not walk too slowly either that people may assume that you are ill.

٭ It is not Sunnah to look here and there unnecessarily while walking. Walk with dignity and with your gaze lowered.

٭ While walking or coming up or down the stairs, take care that your shoes do not make noise.

٭ If there are two women standing or going on a way, do not pass between them. It has been prohibited in blessed Hadees. [1]

٭ Some people have the habit of kicking whatever comes in their way. This is a very ill-mannered practice. There is also a danger of your foot getting injured.

٭ Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water having inscriptions on them is also very disrespectful.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of [facing] danger from a nation

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a of “ [facing] danger from a nation ” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِنَّا نَجْعَلُکَ فِیْ نُحُوْرِھِمْ وَ نَعُوْذُ بِکَ مِنْ شُرُوْرِھِم

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we ask You to be against these enemies and we seek Your refuge from their evil ways.

(Abu Dawood, Kitab-ul-Witr, vol. 2, pp. 127, Hadees 1537)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

