Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Destruction of Following Desires

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes the reward of one Qeerat for him and one Qeerat is equal to the mount Uhud. (Musannaf ‘Abdur Razzaq, vol. 1, pp. 39, Hadees 153)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It is a famous saying, ‘As you sow so shall you reap’. On the basis of it when a Muslimah performs good deeds and acts upon them steadfastly, she gets the best reward for it. On the contrary, when the same Muslimah performs bad deeds, she gets severe punishment for them and she is destroyed. In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, held under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to something about it.

Can a disease itself become a medicine?

On page 367, volume 1 of the two-volume book ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah it is stated: The renowned pious person of the spiritual Sufi order of Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: One night, I became very restless. I kept myself busy worshipping Allah Almighty, but I had no inner peace. I tried my best to pay full attention to my worship with extreme humility and presence of the heart, but I could not succeed in my effort. I then started reciting the Holy Quran, and yet I could not concentrate and get inner peace. I wondered as to why I was not able to concentrate on Divine worship and I lost my inner peace. Eventually, in the last part of the night, I put my shawl on my shoulder and went out of my home. After walking some distance, I saw a person wrapped in a shawl.

When I approached him, he raised his head and asked me, ‘Why are you so worried?’ Has the Judgement Day begun?’ I asked, ‘Has the fixed day of the Judgement Day come?’ That person replied, ‘No, but I am just asking if you are going to attain inner peace due to being worried about the state of agitation and restlessness.’ I replied in the affirmative and said that I have really come out to attain the peace of the heart and I want to know as to why I am not getting inner peace tonight?’ [I then asked him] Ok tell me! ‘Do you need anything from me?’ He answered in the affirmative and said he needed something from me. I asked him: Tell me what you need from me. He replied: ‘O Abu Qaasim! Tell me if there is any situation in which disease itself becomes a medicine.’ I replied, ‘Yes! There is one such situation in which disease itself becomes a medicine. Listen carefully! When you oppose the desires of your Nafs, all diseases of your heart will go away from you and the same diseases will themselves become a medicine.’

Having heard this, that man took a sigh of relief and said, ‘I have been answered this question in the same way seven times tonight, but I had the desire to listen to this answer from you. By the grace of Allah Almighty, this desire of mine has been fulfilled and I have heard the answer to my question from your tongue. Saying this that person left and then he was never seen again. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard how excellent prescription for the diseases of the heart Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی, a great pious person of the Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah spiritual Sufi order gave to that person by saying that when he would oppose his desires of Nafs, all the diseases of the heart would go away from him and the same diseases themselves would also become a medicine. From this it has been learnt that satisfying and fulfilling the Nafsani [carnal] desires are very deadly diseases as they fill the heart with the filth of sins. Just ponder over this, isn’t it the reason due to which nothing virtuous affects upon our hearts and we do not take interest in acts of worship? So we should also get the lesson from this parable that instead of wasting our life in satisfying desires unnecessarily, we should live a life full of virtuous deeds as per Sunnah.

Definition of following desires!

Remember! Fulfilling each and every desire of Nafs without caring whether it is permissible or impermissible is called following desires. (Baatini Beemariyon Ki Ma’loomat) Surely satisfying desires only bring about loss. The evil influences of it can be very well judged by the following blessed Hadees as well.

Three deadly things

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Three things bring destruction: (1) Being obsessed with greed (2) Following Nafsani [carnal] desires. (3) A person’s act of feeling proud of himself

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 212, Hadees 5754)

Dear Islamic sisters! If we succeed in overcoming Nafsani [carnal] desires, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will also get out of evil habit of greed and will also get rid of various kinds of sins. In this way, our inner self will get purified as well as we

will attain the blessing of extreme humility and presence of the heart in acts of worship. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Human desires never end; with the passage of time, they keep increasing. At present, people do not care whether they have to take a loan or use impermissible or Haraam sources to fulfil these desires. Let’s listen to few blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran condemning the act of following desires so that we too learn about the destruction of Nafsani desires and try to avoid them. In Ayah 59 of Surah Maryam, Part 16, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then a fter them came the unworthy successors who wasted prayer and followed their desires, so soon they will encounter the valley Ghayy (in Hell). (Part 16, Surah Maryam, verse 59)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has reported that Sayyiduna ‘Uqbah Bin Amir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: I heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Soon the people of the book and the people of Labn will be destroyed from my Ummah. I humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are the people of the book?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Those who learn the book so that they quarrel with true believers through it.’ I humbly asked, ‘Who are the people of Labn?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Those who satisfy their desires and waste their Salah.’ (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 5, pp. 527)

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Ash’as رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام: Undoubtedly, the hearts which are connected to the desires of the world are away from Me. (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, pp. 527)

In Ayah 27 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اللّٰهُ یُرِیْدُ اَنْ یَّتُوْبَ عَلَیْكُمْ-  وَ یُرِیْدُ الَّذِیْنَ یَتَّبِعُوْنَ الشَّهَوٰتِ اَنْ تَمِیْلُوْا مَیْلًا عَظِیْمًا(۲۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah wills to turn towards you with His mercy; but those who indulge in their own pleasures wish that you stay far away from the Straight Path. (Part 5, Surah An-Nisa, verse 27)

(Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, pp. 526)

The contextual background of the abovementioned Ayah is that non-Muslims would consider it Halal to perform Nikah with the daughters of their brothers and sisters. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made it Haraam to perform Nikah with them, they started saying to Muslims: The way you consider it permissible to perform Nikah with maternal and paternal aunt’s daughters though the aunts are Haraam for you, similarly, perform Nikah with the brother and sister’s daughters too. Upon that the abovementioned Ayah was revealed saying that these people also want you to start committing fornication like them.

(Madarik, Surah An-Nisa, Taht-al-Ayah: 27, pp. 223)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard how Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has condemned those who satisfy their desires! Such people will be put into the valley of Hell namely, Ghayy. Similarly, in another blessed Ayah, hypocrites have been condemned because they were disgraced due to satisfying desires and now, due to malice and enmity, they want Muslims to fall into this evil habit too.

Dear Islamic sisters! If we want to follow Islamic teachings after getting rid of fashion, want to live our lives as per Sunnah after giving up love for fashion, want our reformation and Madani Tarbiyyat for our children and want to give them the mind-set of pondering over the Hereafter from their childhood, we have to associate [ourselves] with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment, countless lovers of fashion and lovers of western culture have repented and started following Sunnahs.

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to make your mind to abandon Nafsani [carnal] desires for the sake of the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, some blessed Ahadees are being mentioned about the condemnation of satisfying desires so that more success can be achieved in staying safe from this deadly disease.

Paradise and Hell are nearer to you

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Paradise is nearer to you than your shoelace is near to your shoe and so is Hell (i.e., very near). However, Paradise has been covered up with troubles and Hell with desires and pleasures. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 243, Hadees 6487)

Who is wise and who is unwise?

In the same way, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

اَلۡكَيِّسُ مَنۡ دَانَ نَفۡسَهٗ وَ عَمِلَ لِمَا بَعۡدَ الۡمَوۡتِ وَ الۡعاجز مَنِ اتَّبَعَ نَفۡسَهٗ هُوَا هَاثم تَمَنَّي عَلَي اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Translation: Wise and sensible is he who makes an accountability of his Nafs [self] and performs deeds for the life after death and weak is he who follows Nafsani [carnal] desires and hopes to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (Allah Almighty’s mercy to attain Paradise). (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 496, Hadees 4260)

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, Paradise is an extremely beautiful place full of blessings and comforts, but it is not easy to get there, rather extremely difficult passes are on its way in the form of acts of worship, spiritual exercises and virtuous deeds which have to be crossed, whereas, Hell is the place of terrors, troubles and different torments, but it is extremely easy to get to it because Hell is covered up with Nafsani [carnal] desires, so the person who lives her life satisfying impermissible desires of her Nafs, it is feared that she might be made to enter Hell. Therefore, whoever, amongst us, wishes to enter Paradise and desires to stay safe from the torment of Hell [everyone should have this desire] should try to overcome her permissible desires along with impermissible desires by opposing Nafs because if we do

not suppress our permissible desires, they will cause us to have impermissible desires. Let’s listen to another blessed Hadees for admonition.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created Paradise and Hell, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to Paradise and said, ‘Look at Paradise and its blessings which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘So Sayyiduna Jibraeel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) came to Paradise and saw Paradise and the blessings of Paradise which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise and came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘By Your Honour and Majesty! Whoever will hear of this Paradise must try to enter it.’ Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gave the order and Paradise was covered with difficulties and troubles. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then said to Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘Go again and see Paradise and its blessings which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Jannah.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to Paradise again and what he saw was that it was covered with difficulties and troubles. Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came to the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By Your Honour and Majesty! I fear that now no one will be able to enter it.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then said, ‘Now go towards Hell and see Hell and its torments which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Hell.’ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went and saw that one part of [ the fire of] Hell was climbing up the other one. So he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘O Allah Almighty! By Your Honour and Majesty! There is no one who after hearing about (the severity of) Hell will enter it (i.e., he will try to protect himself from it).’ Hence by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Hell was covered with the covers of desires and pleasures. Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ordered Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم, ‘Go towards Hell again’ Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went and came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘O Allah Almighty! By Your Honour and Majesty! I fear that now no one will be able to stay safe from it, but rather they (after indulging themselves in desires) will enter it.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2569)

Explanation of blessed Hadees

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah Ibn-e-Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Desires refer to the worldly activities by which pleasure is obtained whether it is directly prohibited by Shari’ah or it causes abandonment of any Divine commandments if it is done. Moreover, doubtful/suspicious acts and permissible and Mubah acts which may lead to Haraam if performed are all included in it [desires]. (Fath-ul-Bari, vol. 11, pp. 273)

Sayyiduna Atiyyah Bin Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A man cannot become pious and abstinent until he gives up permissible and Mubah acts in order to avoid impermissible acts.

(Al-Mustadrak, Hadees 7969)

Dear Islamic sisters! From this blessed Hadees it has been learnt that a servant can enter Paradise after experiencing these difficulties and troubles and get rid of Hell after giving up following her Nafsani [carnal] desires.

In Kufa while delivering sermon, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated: O people! I fear most for you that you may follow your carnal desires and have high hopes because high hopes make a person forget the Hereafter and obedience to Nafsani [carnal] desires leads a person astray. Be careful! Undoubtedly, the world is about to deceive you and surely the Hereafter is about to come and there are people who want both, hence you become the ones who desire the Hereafter and do not become the ones who desire the world. Today is [the time of] deed, [but] no accountability and tomorrow [on the Judgement Day] there will be accountability, [but] no opportunity for deed.’ (Az-Zuhd, pp. 58)

When Sayyiduna ‘Usman e Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked about the reason for weeping bitterly when looking at a grave, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I imagine my loneliness because no one amongst the people will be with me in the grave.’ (Then presenting the call towards righteousness) he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: The grave is Paradise for the one whose world is like a prison and it is a prison for the one whose world is Paradise for him. Death is the message of release for the one whose worldly life was like imprisonment. The one who gives up Nafsani [carnal] desires in the world will find full reward in the Hereafter. A

better person is he who has leaves the world before the world leaves him, and who is content with his Creator before meeting Him. Everyone will be treated in his grave according to his worldly life, that is, if he spends his life performing virtuous deeds, he will find comforts in the grave, but if he meets his death committing sins, he will be totally destroyed.

(Maw’izah Hasanah, pp. 61-62)

Dear Islamic sisters! The pious bondsmen of Allah Almighty would deeply ponder over the internal conditions of the grave and would keep themselves far away from the instability of the world and obedience to the desires of Nafs. Surely, these blessed personalities would know that taking interest in the world and satisfying desires bring about loss in the Hereafter.

Remember! Those who would follow their desires and consider this world to be everything for them are reaping today what they sowed in the world.

On the surface, the graves appear similar, but they are different from the inside. Some people’s graves are a beautiful flower garden and orchard whilst others are full of burning coals, snakes and scorpions. Just ponder over it! If a person is buried alive in the narrow, dark and frightening grave as a punishment for missing only one Salah or for lying only once or for backbiting only once or having unlawful gaze only once, or listening to a song once or watching a movie once or abusing somebody only once or scolding someone only once out of anger without any Shar’i permission, what will be her condition! Undoubtedly, those who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ tremble even to imagine it. It is only worldly imagination, otherwise who will be able to endure the torments which a person will have to suffer after death if she displeases Allah Almighty? It is stated in Hilyat-ul- Awliya: When a bondsman is buried in his grave, all those things come to frighten him of which he was frightened in the world, but did not fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 10, pp. 12, Raqm 14318)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Ghar Dars” (Home Dars) one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to prepare for the grave and Hereafter, safeguard yourselves against the sins, develop a habit of worship and recitation of the Holy Quran and defeat every attack of Shaytan and Nafs, you should associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami which is the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. Moreover, participate devotedly in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities is “Home Dars ”. To develop a Madani environment in home, deliver or listen to Dars of Faizan e Sunnat at least once daily (without Na-Mahram). Dars can also be delivered from the booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat (Duration 7 minutes). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessings of Ghar Dars, sawab (reward) of acquiring knowledge of Deen is attained. At the same time, Ghar Dars is a means to reform inner and outer manners and also serves as an excellent upbringing. Therefore, all Islamic sisters should make the intention to start Ghar Dars and remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

I found the right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat. The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the fast of Ramadan.

In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

Dear Islamic sisters! Salvation lies in abstaining from the desires of Nafs. Those who abstain from the desires of Nafs for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, so Allah Almighty blesses them with the everlasting favours of the Paradise as reward. Therefore, it is stated in Surah Nazi’aat, Ayah no. 4 0 and 41:

وَ اَمَّا مَنْ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّهٖ وَ نَهَى النَّفْسَ عَنِ الْهَوٰىۙ(۴۰) فَاِنَّ الْجَنَّةَ هِیَ الْمَاْوٰىؕ(۴۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And as for he who feared to stand before his Lord and prevented his soul from (illicit) desire. So indeed only Paradise is his abode.

In this ayah, Allah Almighty has praised those who refrain from following their desires and given them the glad tidings of Paradise.

Hadrat Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Daarani said: “To refrain from one of the desires of Nafs is more beneficial for the heart than the Siyam (fasting) of one year and Qiyam (Nafl Salah) of the nights of the entire year.” (Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 2, pp. 336)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see how many virtues lie in abstaining from desires? As the one who abstains from desires, Allah Almighty blesses her with the reward of Paradise. Therefore, we shall also try not to remain deprived of these rewards and blessings and try our utmost to abstain from desires in order to attain these rewards and blessings.

There can be various reasons that entice one to follow desires. I will mention five of those reasons and their cure so that it becomes further easy for us to refrain from these destructive traits.

1 Habit of being impressed quickly

Upon listening to the praise of something or seeing someone having something, one develops the desire in the heart that I should also have this thing (i.e. someone’s nice mobile phone, laptop, iPad, house, shop, car, etc.). Upon looking at these things, whether we need them or not, we just want to obtain those things by hook or by crook. Now because obtaining all these things is very difficult, this person will cross all the boundaries of Halaal and Haraam in order to fulfil her desires and end up being in the deep pits of destruction.

Cure

Its cure is that such a person should develop the habit of distinguishing between needs and unlawful desires. In this regard, she should consult with a righteous and sincere friend and should ponder over the harms and condemnation of desires. Moreover, in order to fulfil her lawful desire, she should only adopt lawful means.

2 Ill trait of Extravagance

Similarly, another reason to entice one to fulfil her desires can also be the ill trait of extravagance. This is because an extravagant person will end up buying everything she likes without thinking whether it is useful to her or not. This way, such a person wastes a lot of money of her on fulfilling her desires.

Cure

The cure for this is that while spending money, a person should focus only on her needs. She shall not buy anything unnecessarily. If possible, the amount that was to be spent on useless thing, she should give it as sadaqah [charity]. Remember! Spending on something in which spending is forbidden by Shari’ah or by norms, i.e. spending on sins and transgression, spending on strangers in such a way that you ignore your own family members and household, is called extravagance. (Baatini Beemariyon Ka Ilaaj) If extravagance is against the Shari’ah, then it is Haraam and if it is against the norms, then it is Makrooh-e-Tanzeehi. (Hadeeqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 2, pp. 28)

It is stated on page No. 256 of the masterpiece, Faizan-e-Sunnat, volume 1, authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-

Islami, Hadrat Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyai دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ:

Mufassir-e-Shaheer, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Hadrat Mufti Ahmad Yaar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions in Tafseer e Na’eemi, volume 8, page 390: There are many explanations of extravagance.

1 Considering Halal things to be Haraam,

2 Using Haraam things,

3 Eating, drinking and wearing more than one’s needs,

4 Eating, drinking or wearing whatever one wants to,

5 Keep eating and drinking frequently during the day and night which makes one have stomach problems, fall ill,

6 Eating and drinking the things that are harmful to health,

7 Always thinking about eating, drinking and wearing. Thinking that what I will eat now, what will I drink now? (Rooh-ul-Bayan, vol. 3, pp. 154),

8 Eating for heedlessness,

9 Eating to commit a sin,

10 Being used to excellent foods and clothing so much so that she cannot eat ordinary food,

11 Considering excellent foods to be the result of her own efforts.

In short, this one word [extravagance] contains various rulings.

(Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 8, pp. 390)

3 Thinking unnecessarily about others’ affairs

Similarly, one reason for indulging in following desires is thinking unnecessarily about others’ affairs. Thinking unnecessarily about the excellent dresses, grand palaces and luxurious lifestyle of others not only

creates the destructive trait of jealousy in a person, but it also ignites the fire of following desires in one’s heart. Then, blinded by her desires, such a person even adopts impermissible means to earn wealth in order to fulfil her desires.

Cure

The cure for this is that such a person should refrain from thinking about the affairs of other people. She should have patience and be thankful for what Allah Almighty has bestowed upon her. She should look at those who are poorer than her and pay gratitude to Allah Almighty. Moreover, she should study the biography of righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and ponder over the affairs of their lives so that her heart could be inclined towards righteousness and piety.

4 Heedlessness from one’s own reform

One of the reasons for following Nafs and Shaytan is not to pay attention towards one’s own reform. If a person does not hold herself accountable for her deeds, she never gets aware of her own shortcomings and sins. Therefore, such a person keeps committing sins and following Shaytan.

Cure

Such a person should carry out her self-accountability on a daily basis. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, it is called performing “Fikr e Madinah”. Before going to sleep in the night, one should ponder on the fact that what righteous actions did she perform today? Which evil actions and sins did she commit today? She should scold her Nafs for her sins and promise herself not to commit sins again.

5 Eating to full stomach

Similarly, one of the reasons for following desires is also to eat to a full stomach. It is obvious that Shaytan easily dominates the one who eats to a full stomach. Due to this, one does not get inclined towards the righteous actions, instead, her desires increase, making her interested in committing sins more.

Attack of sins on the one who eats to full stomach

Dear Islamic sisters! It is a matter of great concern that eating to full stomach causes a person to fall into the pits of sins. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: ‘Excessive eating causes mischief in body parts and creates the desire of committing violent and immodest deeds. When a person eats to his full stomach, his eyes desire to see immodest things, his ears desire to hear evil things, his tongue wants to speak about indecent things, his private part demands the satisfaction of desires and his feet are keen to move towards impermissible places. On the contrary, if a person is hungry, all of his body parts remain peaceful. They will neither desire for any evil nor will they get happy when seeing it.’ Abu Ja’far رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘When the stomach is hungry, all other body parts are at peace. They desire nothing, and when the stomach is full, other body parts become hungry and take the person to committing evil things.’ (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 82)

Cure

Dear Islamic sisters! Remedy for refraining from sins after eating to a full stomach is that a person should protect herself from the evils of Nafs by eating less than hunger. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, one is motivated to abstain from consuming a Haraam morsel. Moreover, she should even eat permissible and Mubah food in less quantity with the intention of gaining energy to perform worship so that she can relish the blessing of sweetness of the worship and does not get inclined towards sins. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, eating less than hunger is called “Qufl-e-Madinah of the stomach”. In order to get a mindset to act upon this, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has written a wonderful book called “Payt ka Qufl e Madinah – The Excellence of Hunger”, comprising 162 pages. By the blessing of reading this book, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be able to collect various Madani pearls about the manners of eating, benefits of eating less than hunger, rules of remaining healthy and various other Madani pearls. This book can be purchased from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. In

addition, it can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net.

Majlis Maktubat and Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam approximately in 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Maktubat and Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah’ that is busy serving patients and distressed people. The number of the stalls of Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah that are put up daily in Pakistan and abroad is around 980. The average number of patients in a month is 335,000. Islamic sisters’ weekly stalls of Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah are also put up all over Pakistan at approximately 80 places. At these stalls, only Islamic sisters give and get Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah. Every month thousands of Islamic sisters gain benefit from these stalls. More or less four hundred thousand Ta’wizat and Awraad-e-‘Attariyyah are given every month.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls in relation to blessed Hadees

Dear Islamic sisters! Bringing the bayan towards the end, let ’ s listen to some Madani pearls in relation to Hadees-e-Pak. First, let ’ s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who memorises 40 Ahadees in relation to Deen and imparts it to my Ummah, Allah Almighty will resurrect him on the Day of Judgment with such glory that he will be a Faqeeh [Jurist], and I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgment and will bear witness for him. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 258)

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: May Allah Almighty keep him fresh who listens to my Hadees, remembers it and imparts it to others! (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 298, Hadees 2665)

٭ In Islam, word of Rasoolullah (i.e. Hadees) has the highest rank after the Word of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (i.e. Quran). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 2)

٭ It is Fard [obligatory] for every human being to obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this obedience is impossible without knowing Hadees and Sunnah. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 9)

٭ Claiming to have Iman on Quran after denying the Ahadees is merely a false statement. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 36)

٭ Do not state something [as a Hadees] unless it is known that it is really a blessed Hadees. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 451)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Refrain from stating a Hadees attributed to me unless you have certain knowledge. The one who deliberately associated a lie with me should make his abode in the Hell. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 439, Hadees 2960)

٭ Do not forward any Hadees through SMS without reference unless you have it verified from a Sunni Mufti [Islamic jurist] or ‘Aalim [Islamic scholar] who has correct beliefs. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 440)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

