اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Disastrous Consequences of Lying

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَامِنْ عَبْدَيْنِ مُتَحَابَّيْنِ فِي اللهِ يَسْتَقْبِلُ اَحَدُهُما صَاحِبَهُ ’ When those, who love each other for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ meet each other ‘ فَيُصَافِحُه ’ and shake hands ‘ ويُصَلِّيَانِ عَلَى النَّبيِّ صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلہٖ وَسَلَّمَ ’ and send Salat to the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘ اِلَّا لَمْ يَفْتَرِقَا حتّٰى تُغْفَر َذُنُوْبُهُمَا مَا تَقَدَّمَ مِنْهُمَا وَمَا تَأَخَّرَ ’ then the past and future sins of both of them are forgiven before they get separated. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 95, Hadees 2951)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

-3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Truth is one of the tremendous personality traits. The truthful individual is always successful by the blessings of truth. On the other hand a liar remains wandering and roaming around aimlessly. Truthful individual is granted the Taufeeq (ability) to thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the All-Merciful. On the other hand a liar complains and moans whenever his wish is unfulfilled. Truthfulness becomes a symbol of a man’s high-courageousness, profound intellect, reverence, piety and patience. On the other hand, lying distances humans from All-Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

In today’s speech we shall hear about the disastrous consequences of lying as well as the virtues of truthfulness.

Come let’s listen to a parable in this regard:

Refrain from lying!

A man visited the grand court of the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘I want to believe in your Prophethood but I have four bad habits, (1) I drink alcohol. (2) I am an adulterer. (3) I am a thief. (4) I lie and don’t speak the truth. People say that you declare these acts Haraam (prohibited) but I do not have the ability to abandon them all, if you allow me

to abstain from only one of these acts then I too will become one of your followers.’ The Nabi of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم answered: “Refrain from lying!” The man accepted this glorious command and converted to Islam. After his departure from the Benevolent Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he was offered wine. He thought to himself: “If I drink wine and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم enquiries regarding this, to which I respond with a lie then I will have broken a promise, on the other hand if I tell the truth, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will punish me (as per Shari’ah).” Hence he turned down the invitation to drink wine. Later, he got the opportunity to fornicate but the same thought occurred to him hence he refrained from that too. The same happened with theft. On his next visit to the Most Glorious Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he confessed: “O Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم your decision was wonderful, since when I refrained from lying, all avenues of sins became sealed for me (after that he repented from all sins).” (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 168)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see! When a person abandoned lying and was determined to speak only the truth he ultimately abandoned numerous other major sins. We learn that lying is the root of all sins; the worst of bad habits. Lying is contemptible whether it is expressed verbally or through any action.

The definition of lying is: “Saying something that is contrary to reality.”

(Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 2, pp. 400)

For example if you are asked: “Did you attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’?” And you answer: “Yes” (whereas you did not attend) or: “Did you have a meal?” And you answer “Yes” (when you haven’t); since you have conveyed information that contradicts a fact. The habit of lying is so despicable that it is condemned by every religion. Our beloved religion Islam has laid tremendous emphasis on abstaining from it. In several passages the Glorious Quran condemns lying and declares the curse of Almighty Allah to befall upon liars:

Glorious Ayahs about lying

Ayah 30 of Surah Al-Hajj, part 17 commands:

وَ اجْتَنِبُوْا قَوْلَ الزُّوْرِۙ(۳۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And avoid false speech.

(Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 30)

Ayah 105 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14 declares:

اِنَّمَا یَفْتَرِی الْكَذِبَ الَّذِیْنَ لَا یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاٰیٰتِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْكٰذِبُوْنَ(۱۰۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those who do not believe in Allah’s Verses attribute false allegation, and only they are liars.

(Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, Ayah 105)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه elaborates on this glorious Ayah: ‘Lying and laying false accusations are the traits of faithless people.’

(Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, part 14, An-Nahl, Taht-al-Ayah 105)

Imam-ul-Mutakallimeen, ‘Allamah Imam Fakhruddin Muhammad Bin ‘Umar Razi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه elaborates: “This Glorious Ayah is strong evidence to prove that lying is the worst of major sins and the most despicable evil. Since only people who do not have faith in the signs of All-Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ can have the audacity to lie and make false accusations against other people. The style in which All-Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has condemned lying tremendously intensifies i ts denunciation [condemnation].” (Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 272, part 20)

Epidemic that diminishes faith

Dear Islamic brothers! You must never forget that lying again and again signifies weak faith. Along with this, it causes interior (spiritual) corruption for liars. Lying is a disease that gradually diminishes faith. It’s a disease that is hard to detect and caught quite weirdly. Every time liars lie they say to themselves: “What harm will one lie do?” Whereas, social disorder usually begins with lying. Liars are recorded in the court of Allah Almighty as very big liars and shall be hurled into Hell. Let’s listen to three glorious Ahadees regarding the devastation caused by lying:

3 Blessed Ahadees on devastations of lying

-1 “Speaking truth is a virtue and virtues lead to Heaven; and lying is “Fisq-o-Fujoor” (sin), and “Fisq-o-Fujoor” (sin) leads to Hell.” (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

-2 “Undoubtedly, truth leads to piety, and piety leads to Heaven and undoubtedly, an individual consistently speaks the truth until in the sight of Allah Almighty he becomes a ‘Siddeeq’, a tremendously truthful individual. Whereas, lying leads to sin and sin leads to Hell, an individual consistently lies until in the sight of Allah Almighty he becomes a ‘Kazzaab’, a very big liar.” (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

-3 A man approached the sublime court of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly enquired: ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What action leads to Hell?’ The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Speaking lies. When an individual lies, he is a sinner and when he commits sins he is ungrateful

and when he is ungrateful he enters Hell.’ (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! So you see! How dangerous the epidemic of lying is. As a result of persistent lying, a liar is ultimately recorded by Allah Almighty as a very big liar (Kazzaab). None of us would want our names on a police record and if it was we’d find it hard to get by our daily lives peacefully, we’d also probably lose sleep over it. Please just think for a while! If none of us can bear seeing our names on a police record then we must also be disturbed if, in the court of Allah Almighty, our names are recorded in the list of liars and as a result of persistent lying being ultimately categorised by Allah Almighty as very big liars, Kazzaab.

Similarly, if any individual who is aware that a particular route is tremendously dangerous and that he risks his life and wealth on every step by walking on that route, will avoid adopting that route. Sadly however we’re persistently concerned about worldly progress yet totally oblivious to striving for the betterment of our Hereafter. We are aware that lying is a horrendous route to Hell yet oblivious to all its dangers we are speeding catastrophically along this very route; how terribly sad. These days مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ liars don’t even consider lying to be anything worth resenting. People who make a profit of a few pounds by lying in this world, make people laugh by fabricating false jokes, entertain others by narrating false dreams, trying to gain love for status by affixing false titles and labels to their names, all such people must never forget that after they die there is absolutely no chance that they will ever manage to tolerate the torment for lying. Hence:

Painful torments for liar

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘In my dream, a person came to me and requested, ‘Accompany me.’ I accompanied him, and I saw two people at a place, one of whom was standing and the second one was sitting. The one who was standing, had pincers made up of steel in his hand, which he would put into one jaw of the man who was sitting down and drag them to rip up to his neck. He would then take them out, put them into the other jaw and drag them in the same way. In the meantime, the first jaw would restore to normal condition. I asked the person who brought me,

‘What is this?’ He replied, ‘This person is a liar, and he will be tormented in this way in the grave until the Day of Judgement.’

(Masawi-il-Akhlaq lil-Kharaa`iti, pp. 76, Hadees 131, The Lying Thief, pp. 14)

The famous (prominent) saint Sayyiduna Abu ‘Abdur Rahman Haatim Asam Balkhi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه stated: ‘It has been relayed to us that a liar will be transformed into a dog in Hell; one who bears jealousy will be transformed into a pig and a backbiter will be transformed into a monkey.’

(Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 194, The Lying Thief, pp. 10)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The aforementioned narration is not only a lesson of admonition for jealous people and backbiters rather also a warning for liars too. Even though people who prosper on this mortal world via lying can’t stop themselves from boasting out of pride; in their graves and the afterlife they will be left with no choice but to drown in disappointment. Just think for a second! How can someone who on this earth can’t even endure the agony of a tooth ache, endure the agony of his jaws being torn apart in the afterlife? How will someone who becomes restless on a mosquito bite in this world manage to endure the torment for liars inside his grave? Most liars face the divine wrath of Almighty Allah on this earth for lying [even before they die]. Hence:

The lying thief

Once, a man stole his cousin’s belongings. The owner caught the thief in the blessed Haram (in Makkah) and claimed for his belongings, but the thief responded, ‘You are lying’. The owner replied, ‘If it is so, then swear an oath.’ Listening to this, the thief swore (in front of the Holy Ka’bah) standing beside ‘Maqaam-e-Ibraheem’. Seeing this, the owner raised his hands for prayer standing between ‘Rukn-e-Yamani’ and ‘Maqaam-e-Ibraheem’. After a short while, as soon as the owner started praying, the thief went insane and started screaming and shrieking, ‘What has happened to me? And what has happened to the belongings? And what has happened to the owner?’

When this news was heard by Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the blessed grandfather of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he came, collected the belongings, handed them over to the owner and went away; whereas the thief kept running, shrieking, and crying, until he eventually fell off a mountain and ended up being eaten by wild animals.

(Akhbar Makkah lil-Azraqi, vol. 2, pp. 26)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! So you see how this particular thief and liar who swore dishonestly met with horrendous consequences that serve as a warning for the rest of us. Hence we must all abstain from theft, false oaths and especially the atrocious sin of lying.

Associate yourself with Madani environment

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to refrain from every kind of sin, especially lying, and to inculcate a habit of truth, affiliate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami which is a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Remember ‘A man is influenced by his companions’ if a sesame seed is left inside a rose, eventually the colour of the rose will rub off onto the sesame seed as result of being in its company. Likewise anyone who affiliates himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, will by the grace of Almighty Allah and His Most Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم transform into a glittering “priceless diamond”. If we too wish to escape bad habits such as lying, backbiting, tale-telling, watching and showing films and dramas, listening to music or playing it for others to hear, then you must instantly affiliate with this Madani environment and be blessed with regular active participation in Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani activities. Alongside this you should travel in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ via Madani Qafilahs of devotees of Rasool for educating yourselves regarding the Sunnah.

In order to lead a prosperous life and make your afterlife blissful perform Fikr-e-Madinah [1] every single day whilst filling the boxes in your Madani In’amaat cards and eventually hand them in to your local team leaders (Zimmahdar) on the 1 st of every new Islamic (Madani) month, don’t even wait for the 10 th to hand them in. Along with this ensure your own personal attendance in your weekly Sunnah-inspired Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarah as well as regularly inviting other people to attend them too. Watch the very popular 100% Islamic channel of Dawat-e-Islami “Madani Channel” yourself and persuade others to watch the same.

In addition to this, you should inculcate a habit of dynamic and vibrant participation in the 12 Madani Zayli Halqah activities. If you are fortunate enough to be blessed with persistent involvement in these Madani activities and resilience in Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani environment then this will intensify your love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the All-Merciful and His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, you will be enriched with the sacred spiritual blessings of the Sahabah (companions) رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and saints (Awliya) رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, your heart will loathe sins, and you will acquire a determination to contemplate about your afterlife and also live your lives in accordance with the holy Sunnah, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One of the 12 Madani activities – “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima”

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the 12 Zayli Halqahs Madani activities is the “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there are hundreds of benefits in this life along with the next life if this Madani activity is carried out. For example:

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat you will be blessed with visiting a Masjid.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat you can publicise the Sunnah of meeting and greeting Muslims.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat valuable Madani pearls packed with religious knowledge can be transmitted to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat tremendously contribute to help make Muslims punctual in their Salah who otherwise are not punctual.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat we publicise the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and increase the number of its admirers.

٭ Prayers are accepted in weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat.

٭ Along with all these benefits you will hear Sunnah-inspiring speeches regarding the awesome biographies of the Illustrious Sahabah Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and honourable saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

For your motivation let’s listen to a Madani marvel regarding attending weekly Ijtima’aat and make a strong resolution to attend our Ijtima’aat punctually.

Became pious due to the blessing of an Ijtima’

An Islamic brother of Markaz ul Awliya (Lahore) was wandering obliviously in the valleys of sins. During his school days an Islamic brother frequently visited his elder brother. One day he extended an invitation to attend Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. As a result of his invitation he attended the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. He was very impressed and hence became a regular attendee. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, due to the blessing of Ijtima’aat he became punctual in his Salah. He even began to adorn his head with a blessed turban which was sternly criticised by certain family members but despite this, the Madani environment’s attraction and kind attitudes of devotees of Rasool drew him even closer to Dawat-e-Islami. His emotional support and motivation was boosted by listening to Sunnah-inspiring cassette speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, gradually the environment in his home transformed into a Madani one.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is promoting the message of Islam throughout the world in approximately 104 various departments, one of them is ‘Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb’. The aims of this Majlis include:

٭ A practical Tanzeemi application of Madani In’aam number 55 which is to re-motivate senior Islamic brothers who once were practically involved in Madani activities but not anymore and once again encourage them to be active in the Madani environment and re-join “The Masjid-populating Movement”.

٭ Taking their prior appointment and visiting them personally at their shops, homes, or offices.

٭ Humbly motivating them to attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs.

Humbly motivating them to participate in collective I’tikaf and Madani courses (Islah-e-A’maal [deeds reformation] course, Faizan-e-Namaz course etc.).

٭ Persuading them to travel with Madani Qafilahs.

٭ Arranging Madani Halqahs (learning circles) in their homes.

٭ Persuading them to join Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan.

٭ Persuading them in times of happiness, sadness, sickness, demises etc.

٭ Arranging letters and Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah for them in their difficult times.

May our Beloved Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow further progress and prosperity to our ‘Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb’.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the truth will not only help you attain a lot of benefits in this world in fact it will also guard you from committing sins such as lying. Hence you must develop a permanent habit of speaking the truth and free yourself from the habit of lying. No matter how big your problem is, no matter how difficult your dilemma is, never lie and stand firmly on truthfulness. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you shall attain both religious and worldly blessings.

Let’s listen to another faith-inspiring parable about the blessing of truthfulness with the intention of deriving Madani pearls from it:

The truth saved his life

One day Hajjaj Bin Yusuf was carrying out the execution of a few prisoners. One particular prisoner stood and remarked: ‘O leader! I have a right over you.’ ‘What is that?’ Hajjaj asked. The prisoner explained: ‘One day, a certain individual insulted you but I spoke in your defence.’ ‘ Who is a witness to this incident?’ Hajjaj enquired. The prisoner pleaded to the people: ‘For the sake of Almighty Allah can anyone who witnessed that conversation please testify (in my favour).’ Another prisoner rose and confessed: ‘Yes! This incident occurred in front of me.’ Hajjaj allowed the first prisoner to be freed, after which he asked the witness: ‘What prevented you from defending me like that other prisoner?’ He answered truthfully: ‘What stopped me was an old enmity towards you in my heart.’ Hajjaj Bin Yusuf remarked: ‘Set him free

too, since he has spoken the truth with immense courage .’ (Wafyaat-ul-A’yaan, vol. 2, pp. 28; The Lying Thief, pp. 19)

Dear Islamic brothers! We learnt here that honest people will always prosper. There is an Urdu proverb, “ Saanch ko aanch nahin ”, meaning an honest man has nothing to fear; only benefit shall be in his destiny. However it is with tremendous disappointment that we must acknowledge that today in our communities lying has transformed into an awfully fatal disease. Men, women, children, adults, rich, poor, minister, secretary, adviser, officer, security guard, almost every single individual in our community is seen to be suffering as a result of this epidemic. Sadly today people even lie in predicaments where speaking the truth does not even cause any worldly harm.

Lying to children

One such case is that of parents lying to their young children. You can easily notice parents forging various lies in order to get their way with young/small children. Examples are: “Come here son I’ll give you something, then you can go (but you don’t intend to give him anything).” Or saying something like this in order to calm him down: “Son be quiet, we’ll buy you toys (when in fact you have no intention to do so).” Another example is using lies to scare them into obedience and prohibit them from disobedience. Such as: “Go to sleep quickly otherwise a cat or dog will come” etc. Please remember that statements such as these are all examples of lying. In such cases not only is the speaker himself committing the major sin of lying in fact one of the side effects of this is that the behaviour and attitude of the child is also damaged by such lies, consequently children are deprived from hearing and speaking the truth rather they develop a habit of listening to and telling lies from childhood. Children who grow up in such environments lie all the time as they grow older. To summarise, we must not lie in front of our children.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Aamir رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: ‘One day the Most Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visited our home. My mother said to me: ‘Come, I will give you something.’ Noticing this, the most Noble Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked her: ‘What do you intend to give (to him)?’ ‘I’ll give him date [to eat].” She answered. Upon which the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remarked: ‘If you would not have given him anything, it would have been recorded as a lie in your deed-register.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 387, Hadees 4991)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this glorious Hadith we learnt absolutely well that it is prohibited in Islam to lie even to children. Therefore anyone who has ever done so in the past must instantly and sincerely repent and inculcate a permanent habit of speaking the truth. We must abstain from lying ourselves and also make efforts to guard our children from this despicable trait. To help attain this goal please study the 37-page booklet ‘ Jhoota Chor ’ (The Lying Thief) written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, as well as studying it yourselves please encourage your children to study it too. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will get rid of the habit of lying.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Affixing false titles

Dear Islamic brothers! We normally have certain terms that signify certain specific distinctions or degrees, however as a result of excessive fraud, deception and lying we notice these terms being used by certain individuals who have absolutely no connection whatsoever with these degrees and accolades. Even if they have some sort of affiliation and association with that particular accolade they are still unworthy of those specific labels. Anyone with a bit of knowledge about medicines such as a professional dispenser or clinic assistant can usually be seen referring to himself as a “doctor” in fact he enjoys being labelled as a “doctor”, whereas we all are aware that the term “doctor” represents a certain degree and can only be used by the relevant degree-holder. Any unqualified individual who uses this label is committing a judicial felony by law and in the eyes of Islam he is a liar. Similarly, having gained a small amount of knowledge regarding plants and few herbs, or picking up a few medical tips from here and there, some people proudly like to be referred to as ‘ Hakeem Sahib ’ along with their names and they also write this label to their names, whereas, this is an absolute lie and deception. Lying is so prevalent that some uneducated people do not shy away from behaving as though they are scholars. In our communities the word “Maulana” is a label ascribed to Islamic scholars but you can observe uneducated people audaciously using not only this word rather even higher religious accolades such as “Allamah-o-Fahhaamah” [ عَلَّامَہ و فَہَّامَہ ] (a scholar of tremendously high calibre) in order to introduce or identify themselves. This is clearly lying.

Definition and harmful effects of Hubb-e-Jah [love for status]

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the most highly alarming internal epidemics rampant in our communities is Hubb-e-Jah which means “love for status” (Call to Righteousness, pp.87) . This desire is the root of all evils.

Sometimes it can even ruin and demolish an individual’s religion; it is for this reason that escaping it is absolutely imperative. The following warning by the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is sufficient for any Muslim: ‘Two hungry wolves do not cause as much destructiveness to the herd of goats as much destructiveness is caused by love for status and wealth, to the religion of a Muslim.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees. 2383)

The above mentioned blessed Hadees, teaches us that Hubb-e-Jah leads to nothing but destruction. It is due to the evils of this despicable malady that Sayyiduna Abu Nasr Bishr Haafi Marwazee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remarked: “I do not know of any individual who aspired for fame whose religion was not ruined and destroyed and he himself was not humiliated and disgraced.” (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 340)

Non-Sayyids claiming to be Sayyids

Dear Islamic brothers! Just think about how disastrous a malady “greed/desire for fame and self-respect” is. Some sufferers of this malady even lie about their lineage in order to gain respect in their communities. In the subcontinent (Pakistan and India), the word ‘ Sayyid ’ is used for individuals whose genealogies can be traced back through their fathers to the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However in our communities, even some non-Sayyid individuals enjoy being labelled as ‘Sadaat’ in order to acquire respect and fame, status and glory, though in actual fact this is nothing but a lie.

Remember! Declaring someone other than your biological father to be your father, or linking your family and lineage to a family other than your own biological one is Haraam, will deprive you of Heaven and will hurl you towards Hell. Many Ahadees severely warn against doing this:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Amr رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated: The Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared: “Anybody who claims that someone other than his (biological) father is his father, will not even smell the aroma of Heaven, (while) its aroma can be smelt from a distance of 500 years.”

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 52, Hadees 5)

The Most Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘If anybody claims a man to be his father knowing that he is not his father, then (entrance into) Heaven is Haraam (prohibited) on him.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 6766)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه comments: “Dear Islamic brothers! There is a warning here for people who in order to avoid upsetting their adopted children claim to be their biological fathers, (in some cases) the poor children live their entire lives believing their foster-fathers to be their real fathers. Hence they do not do Isal-e-Sawab or pray for their real fathers. You must remember! Even on necessary legal documents, ID cards, passports, wedding cards etc., submitting your foster-father’s name as your father instead of your real father’s name is forbidden (Haraam) and an act that will lead to Hell. Divorcees and widows should refrain from ruining their afterlives by keeping their children in the dark regarding their real fathers. There is no harm for a child to refer to his or her step-father as “dad” (Abba Jan) as a term of endearment (respect) as long as everyone around you is aware that he is not the ‘biological father’. However, if someone claims (gives the impression) that this step dad is his real father, then he is a sinner and deserves torments of Hell.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, Maulana ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه explains: ‘These days a large number of people claim that they are Siddeeqi, Farooqi, ‘Usmani, or Sayyid! They should consider what a huge quicksand of sins they are trapped in. May our Merciful Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ make these people tread the straight path and make them repent from this Haraam and hellish act.’ (Aameen)” (Jahannam kay Khatraat, pp. 182; Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 379)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Lying as a joke

Dear Islamic brothers! It is beyond any doubt that in our communities we are witnessing an outburst of lying like that of a virus. There probably isn’t a single one of our ‘get-togethers’ which is safe from lying; especially lying as a joke is tremendously common. These days people see absolutely nothing wrong with getting together (with friends) for a chit-chat and then spicing up conversations with false jokes, fake stories and fabricated occurrences to make listeners laugh; or spreading rumours via mobile phones; or publicising fake gossip about other people via social media. In actual fact these are all ways of delighting the devil and ruining your afterlife. Another contemporary

alarming face of lying is that of false court testimonies. False court testimonies are the most despicable face of lying since it violates and damages the rights, honours and integrities of (innocent) people as well as destabilises social life.

The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared: A false testimony is equal to Shirk [polytheism], ascribing a partner to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 133)

In a similar manner swearing false oaths is a tremendously detestable habit. Sadly attaining success through swearing false oaths is regarded to be an applaudable achievement in our communities; on the other hand anyone who safeguards himself from lying and has a permanent habit of always speaking the truth is considered to be stupid, brainless and foolish. The truth is perceived as an enormous obstacle in the path to prosperity; which is probably why sometimes people do not hesitate to swear false oaths in order to achieve unacceptable goals. This is a major sin too.

Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding this:

-1 Associating a partner with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, disobedience to parents, murdering a person, and swearing false oaths are major sins.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 295, Hadees 6675)

-2 If anyone violates the right of a Muslim by swearing a (false) oath, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make (entrance into) hell Wajib (compulsory) for him and make (entrance into) Jannah Haraam (prohibited) for him. The illustrious companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly enquired: ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even if it is something insignificant?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘(Yes) even if it is frankincense (Loban).’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 82, Hadees 137)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You just heard that the Most Beloved and Blessed Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم warned that anyone who usurps other people’s rights through swearing false oaths shall be hurled into Hell. There are many other faces of lying beside the ones already mentioned so far, such as paying false compliments, narrating false dreams, false representation (Wakalat) on behalf of other people, making false promises, spreading false rumours, celebrating April fool’s day by lying (pranks) etc. In short! Lying is spreading rapidly in our communities like a runny sore (never healing wound). Please

associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami which is a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool in order to refrain from lying as well as all other apparent and spiritual maladies (ailments/viruses). Please protect your tongues in order to safeguard them from unnecessary conversation. Please attend your weekly Madani Muzakarah and weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ regularly. Please act upon Madani In’amaat and travel with devotees of Rasool in a 3-day Madani Qafilahs every month, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will attain blessings in this world as well as the afterlife.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You must remember that lying is impermissible and a sin however there are some situations or cases in which Islamic Shari’ah permits lying due to a necessity or desperate situation, in which case it shall not be a sin. Nevertheless, in any case where a purpose can be fulfilled by speaking both the truth or a lie then lying in this case will be Haraam. If a virtuous objective can be obtained by lying but not by telling the truth then in certain situations lying is also permissible, rather in certain situations it will become necessary (Wajib), for example:

-1 If a tyrant intends to murder or harm an innocent person who is hiding from him to save his life and the tyrant asks you to disclose the innocent man’s whereabouts then even if you are aware of his location you are permitted to lie and say that you are unaware.

-2 Or if you are entrusted with something valuable by someone else and a dishonest individual asks you to disclose its location because he intends to steal it then you can deny having possession of the entrusted valuables. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 705)

-3 Similarly, if there is a dispute between two Muslims and you want to make reconciliation between them both then you can comment in front of one of the two “he believes that you are a good person, and praises you” or “he’s asked me to convey his Salam to you”, and you are permitted to make similar remarks in front of the second person in order to diminish their hostility and cause reconciliation between them both.

-4 Even saying something untrue to your wife in order to please her (will also not be lying). (Al-Fatawa Al-Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding the ‘Imamah [Sunnah turban ]

Firstly, 2 sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ 2 Rak’at of Salah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah are better than offering 70 Rak’at without wearing an ‘Imamah.’ (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 265, Hadees 3233)

٭ ‘Imamahs are the crowns of the Arabs, so wear the ‘Imamah and your honour will augment. Whoever wears an ‘Imamah; he gains one virtue for every fold [of the ‘Imamah that he wraps around his head].’

(Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 5, pp. 202, Hadees 14536)

٭ The length of the Shimlah of the ‘Imamah should be at least the width of four fingers, and at most up to the middle of the back, i.e. approximately the length of one arm. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 182)

٭ Bind the ‘Imamah whilst standing facing the Qiblah. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas lish-Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Dihlvi, pp. 38)

٭ The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of wearing ‘Imamah will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn these Sunnahs and manners.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 11 October 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding the ‘Imamah [Sunnah turban ]

٭ According to a medical research, to wear an ‘Imamah is very effective for the head.

٭ The ‘Imamah supports the brain and improves the memory.

٭ The Shimlah (end part after tying it) of the ‘Imamah protects a person from paralyses of the lower body, because the Shimlah protects the spinal cord against the effect of weather such as winter, summer, etc.

٭ Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 406, Hadees 3805; Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 213)

٭ If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah.

٭ It is Makruh to tie a small kerchief with which one can only make one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 7, pp. 299)

٭ When removing ‘Imamah, (instead of taking it off all at once), untie each fold one by one. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 330)

٭ If Imamah is to be taken off out of some need and there is the intention of binding it again, then one sin will be erased on unwinding each fold. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 214)

٭ Winter and summer directly affect the hair of bareheaded people; it not only affects their hair, but also the brain and face, and may harm their health. Therefore, with the intention of acting upon a Sunnah, if someone ties an ‘Imamah on his head, he will attain the safety and peace of both the worlds.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a when entering and leaving the Masjid

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’as ‘ when entering and leaving the Masjid ’ will be taught as per the schedule. Du’as are as follows:

Du’a when entering the Masjid:

اَللّٰهُمَّ افْتَحْ لِیْۤ اَبْوَابَ رَحْمَتِكَ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Open the doors of Your mercy upon me.

(Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp. 54)

Du’a when leaving the Masjid:

اَللّٰهُمَّ اِ نِّیْۤ اَسْئَلُكَ مِنْ فَضْلِكَ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I ask You for Your favour. (Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp. 54)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-2 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

-1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

-2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

-3 Inquired after an ill person?

-4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

-5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

-6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

-7 Sent a letter?

-8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

