اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Glory and Greatness of Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَنۡهُمَا

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: (Sayyiduna) Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) came to him stating humbly that Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) said: ‘O Muhammad

(صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Are you not pleased that when anyone from your Ummah sends one Salam, I send Salam ten times upon him.

(Sunan Nasa`ee, pp. 222, Hadees 1292)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and attain reward, let’s first make good intentions. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for any good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes, the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for the religious knowledge.

-3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and heartening the ones who utter it.

-4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people myself by making Salaam, shaking hands, and making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The blessed month of Muharram-ul-Haraam is going on. It has special relation with Ahl-e-Bayt Athaar and Imam-e-‘Aali Maqaam Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . In this regard, let’s have the privilege of listening to the glory and greatness of Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would love both of them very much.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was humbly asked, ‘Who do you love more amongst Ahl-e-Bayt?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا).’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would ask Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا: Bring my children to me. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smell them and cuddle them. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 428, Hadees 3797)

Commenting on this blessed Hadees the renowned commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: There are many types of love: Love for children, love for wives and love for friends are all different. Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا were very dear amongst offspring, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was very dear to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم amongst his wives and Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very dear to him amongst his friends. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has further stated: Why would the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not smell them (Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم)? They were the flowers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and flowers are definitely smelled. Cuddling them was to love them deeply. From this it has become obvious that smelling young children, loving them, cuddling and embracing them are all the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 418)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to the blessed biographies of these blessed personalities with the intention of developing their love further stronger in our hearts and acting upon their blessed way of living and character.

Name, Kunyat and titles

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the elder of Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . His Kunyat is ‘Abu Muhammad’ and his titles are ‘Taqi and Sayyid’ whereas his commonly known name is ‘ سِبۡطُ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰه ’ [Sibt-u-Rasoolillah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also called ‘ رَيۡحَانَةُ الرَّسُوۡل ’ [Raihaana-tur-Rasool]. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the chief of the Heaven-dwelling youth. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was born in Madinah on the 15 th night of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak in 3 Hijri. On the 7 th day of his birth, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed his ‘Aqeeqah, shaved his blessed head and ordered to give silver in Sadaqah equal to the weight of his hair. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 149)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named him. The whole event is like that Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا brought the good news of the birth of Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came and said to Sayyidatuna Asma رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا: Asma! Bring my son. Sayyidatuna Asma رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا brought Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, wrapped in a piece of cloth, to the

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم called Azan in his right ear and Takbeer in his left ear then asked Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: What name have you given to this glorious son? Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم humbly replied, ‘Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), how I could dare to name him first without your permission; now since you have asked me, I think he should be named ‘Harb’, but you have supreme authority.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named him ‘ Hasan ’. (Sawanih Karbala, pp. 92)

وہ حسن مُجتبٰی سیّدُ الاسخیاء راکبِ دوشِ عزّت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet: May millions of Salam be upon Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who is the chief of the generous and who used to

sit on the blessed shoulders of his maternal grandfather, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the younger brother of Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and a glorious martyr, was born in Madinah, on 5 th Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam in 4 th Hijri. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named him ‘ Husayn ’ and ‘Shabbir’. His Kunyat is ‘Abu Abdullah’ and titles are also ‘ سِبۡطُ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰه ’ [maternal grandson of Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] and ‘ رَيۡحَانَةُ الرَّسُوۡل ’ (flower of Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also the chief of Heaven-dwelling youth like his elder brother. (Asad-ul-Ghaabah, pp. 1173)

What type of names should be given?

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named his beloved maternal grandsons himself. Let’s listen to some manners of giving (children) names in this regard. Remember! Giving (children) good names is one of the rights of children. It is also the first and fundamental gift from parents to their child which he possesses throughout his life, and even on the day of Judgement, he will be called by this name to the blessed court of Allah Almighty. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘O n the Day of Judgement, you will be called by your names and your forefathers’ names, so give [your children] good names. (Sunan Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 374, Hadees 4948)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this blessed Hadees, the people who name their children after a singer, film actor or مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ use non-Islamic names should learn an admonitory lesson. What could be worse disgrace than this

when the children of Muslims will be called by the names of non-Muslims in the plain where Judgment will be made? In our society, the responsibility of giving child a name is assigned to any close relations such as paternal grandmother, aunt, uncle, etc. Sometimes, due to a lack of Islamic knowledge, they give children such names which have no meanings or do not have good meanings or their meanings are not correct as per Shari’ah. One should avoid giving (children) such names. Sometimes such a name is also searched which no one has been given in the house, family or throughout the

locality. Whoever hears the name starts saying that he has heard this name first time; what an excellent name you have given! Hearing these words one who gives the name gets over the moon, but such a person should think for a moment if this pleasure is the result of the disease of ‘the desire for praise’. Therefore children should be named after the blessed names of the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, blessed companions and Tabi’een رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and pious saints. One of the benefits of it is that the child will develop a spiritual relation with his pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and secondly by virtue of the blessing of being named after these righteous personalities Madani effects will also occur upon his life.

In order to get further interesting and amazing information about names, study a 180-page book namely ‘ Naam Rakhnay kay Ahkam ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. This book contains hundreds of lists of good names which can be given to children. Moreover, a large number of Madani pearls of giving children names can also be found everywhere in this book. This book can also be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Virtues of Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم in the light of Ahadees

Dear Islamic brothers! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned such glory and greatness of these personalities on different occasions which if we listen to, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the love for Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا will increase in our hearts. Let’s listen to some blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about their glory and greatness:

1- The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: مَنۡ اَحَبَّ الۡحَسَنَ وَالۡحُسَيۡنَ فَقَدۡ اَحَبَّنِيۡ وَمَنۡ اَبۡغَضَهُمَا فَقَدۡ اَبۡغَضَنِيۡ: i.e. One who loves both of them, loves me and one who incurs their enmity, incurs my enmity. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 96, Hadees 143)

2- The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: هُمَا رَيۡحَانَتَايَ مِنَ الدُّنۡيَا: i.e. Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) are two flowers of mine in the world. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 547, Hadees)

3- The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: اَلۡحَسَنُ وَالۡحُسَيۡنُ سَيِّدَا شَبَابِ اَهۡلِ الۡجَنَّةِ: i.e., Hasan and Husayn are the chiefs of the youth of Paradise. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, Hadees 3793)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Love for Hasanayn Karimayn is Wajib

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has stated: When this (part 25, Surah Ash-Shura) blessed Ayah revealed:

قُلْ لَّاۤ اَسْــٴَـلُكُمْ عَلَیْهِ اَجْرًا اِلَّا الْمَوَدَّةَ فِی الْقُرْبٰىؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say you (O Beloved), ‘I do not ask any recompense from you for this (propagation of religion), except (your) love for (my) close relatives (i.e. children, wives, etc.). (Part 25, Surah Ash-Shura, Ayah 23)

So the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Who are the relatives of yours to whom it is Wajib for us to love ? ’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, (Sayyiduna) ‘Ali-ul-Murtada, (Sayyidatuna) Fatima-tuz-Zahra and their both sons (i.e., Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn) رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, Hadees 2641)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious! Love for Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is Wajib and essential. In the sight of every Muslim, Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم should be dearer than their lives and wealth, honour, parents and children. Having love for these blessed personalities is, in fact, having love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the sign of perfect Iman.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ لَا يُؤمِنُ عَبۡدٌ حَتّٰي اَكُوۡنَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ نَفۡسِہٖ ’ i.e., No bondman can become a perfect believer until he loves me more than

his life, ‘ وَذَاتِيۡ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ ذَاتِهِ ’ until my life is dearer to him than his life, ‘ وَتَكُوۡنَ عِتۡرَتِيۡ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ عِتۡرَتِهِ ’ until my children are dearer to him than his own children, ‘ وَاَهۡلِيۡ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ اَهۡلِهِ ’ and until my Ahl-e-Bayt are dearer to him than his own family . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 1505)

Virtues of Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar

Dear Islamic brothers! In Ayah 33 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 22, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated the eminence and glory of Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ:

اِنَّمَا یُرِیْدُ اللّٰهُ لِیُذْهِبَ عَنْكُمُ الرِّجْسَ اَهْلَ الْبَیْتِ وَ یُطَهِّرَكُمْ تَطْهِیْرًاۚ(۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah wills only to remove every impurity from you, O People of the House of the Holy Prophet, and make you absolutely pure by cleansing you. (Part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 33)

Most of the blessed commentators of Glorious Quran are of this opinion that the abovementioned blessed Ayah was revealed for Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada, Sayyidatuna Fatimah, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated from Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: This blessed Ayah was revealed for the eminence and glory of ‘Panjtan Pak’. ‘Panjtan Pak’ refers to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Sayyidatuna Fatimah, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Sawanih Karbala, pp. 79, 80)

In another blessed narration, it is also stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also included the rest of his blessed daughters, relatives and his blessed wives along with these blessed personalities.

(As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 144)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Ayah, Sayyiduna Imam Tabari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I.e., O the family of the Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ W ills to keep you away from bad talks and obscene things and purify you from the filth and dirt of sins. (Tabari, vol. 10,, pp. 296)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: This blessed Ayah is a main source of [stating] the virtues of Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and it seems that they have been kept safe from bad manners and deeds. In some blessed Ahadees, it is stated that Ahl-e-Bayt are Haraam on the hellfire (i.e. Ahl-e-Bayt are Paradise-dwellers) and this is the benefit and outcome of this

Tatheer (purification) and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protects and saves them from the things which do not suit their high status. (Sawanih Karbala, pp. 82)

Having devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم we should also try to follow in their footsteps. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to stay safe from sins and by performing many good deeds may He عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us closeness of Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in Paradise for their sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Individual effort - one of 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has given us a Madani aim, ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. Get into a routine of acting upon Madani In’amaat for your own reformation and traveling with Madani Qafilahs for the reformation of the people of the entire world. In this way, start making individual effort to make Muslims righteous Salah-offering and habitual of acting upon Sunnahs and protect them from sins. Apart from Madani Qafilahs whenever you happen to meet any Islamic brother, make individual effort in an affectionate and loving manner. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, its abundant blessings will be there . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the persuasions for individual efforts are also found in a booklet, namely 72 Madani In’amaat. It is stated in Madani In’aam # 22: Today, did you persuade at least two Islamic brothers to travel with a Madani Qafilah and act upon Madani In’amaat through the individual effort?

It is stated in Madani In’aam # 52: Did you have the privilege of meeting new Islamic brothers yourself this week immediately after the Ijtima by making an individual effort on them and obtain their names, addresses and phone numbers? (Do meet at least four Islamic brothers and take the address, etc., of at least one Islamic brother and then keep in touch with them.)

Remember! By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts the number of people who offer Salah with Jama’at, increases. By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts the number of the people who attend Madani Dars and attend Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah increases. By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts, Islamic brothers can be prepared for travelling with Madani Qafilahs for the Tarbiyyat of Sunnahs. Individual efforts help fill Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an individual effort for persuasion:

Virtuous intention leads to destination (Madani parable)

A Madani Qafilah of the devotees of Rasool travelled to Kapadvanj (Gujarat, India). During the area visit to call people towards righteousness, the participants of the Qafilah came across a drinker. Making individual effort, the devotees of Rasool requested him to accompany them to the Masjid.

Impressed by the polite and humble manners of the Islamic brothers whose heads were adorned with green turbans, he joined them immediately. By the blessings of the company of the devotees of Rasool, he repented of his sins, grew a beard, adorned his head with the crown of a green turban and developed a mindset of wearing Madani dress. He travelled with a Madani Qafilah for 6 days, and made the intention of travelling for further 92 days, but didn’t have the expenses for the travel.

One day, he met a relative of his. The relative was astonished to see that a notorious person of society and a drinker had transformed remarkably, growing a beard and wearing a Madani dress with a green turban on his head. He was told that travelling with a Madani Qafilah had caused this great positive change in his life and he had also made a firm intention of travelling with a 92-day Madani Qafilah but could not travel for the time being due to financial constraint. His relative responded, ‘Don’t worry about money. Not only will I provide the expenses of the 92-day Madani Qafilah but will also provide for his family for 92 days.’ In this way, the brother travelled with a Madani Qafilah for 92 days.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is stated in Blessed Tirmizi: Sayyiduna Ali Al-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ closely resembled the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم between his head and chest and Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ closely resembled the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم below it (the chest).

Commenting on this blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Remember, Sayyiduna Fatima Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا strongly resembled the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from blessed head to blessed feet. This resemblance was divided between her sons (Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم). The blessed shins of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ down to his blessed feet and his blessed heel greatly resembled the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Natural resemblance to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also a

blessing of Allah Almighty. The one who makes any of his deed similar to [the blessed deeds of] the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is forgiven. So the one whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes look like His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, what would be the state of his belovedness? (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, Hadees 480)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Maktaba - tul - Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! Remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to develop the love and affection for Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and support Dawat-e-Islami for serving religion. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating call towards righteousness all over the world in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Maktaba tul Madinah. Maktaba tul Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, was set up in 1986. In the beginning, only audio cassettes of speeches were released and then by the grace of Allah Almighty and mercy of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم it made a great progress. Now not only is Maktaba tul Madinah publishing hundreds of thousands of VCDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs and sending them all over the world, but it is also publishing the Urdu translation of the books written by Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, furthermore, books written by Ala Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and the books of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah are also being published in a large number and made available for the public.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم love his Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and beloved maternal grandsons very much, due to their relations with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم these blessed personalities also started treating them with love and affection. After the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم they would take special care of his Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, in particular, Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم .

Siddeeq-e-Akbar’s love for Imam Hasan

When Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became Ameer (leader) of Mu`mineen (believers) and caliph of Muslims, by virtue of the relation with

the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would take special care of Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar and would say about Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar: ‘The relatives

of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are dearer to me than my own relatives.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4036, vol. 3, pp. 29)

Farooq-e- A’zam’s great love for Imam Husayn

Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: One day, I went to the house of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was busy having a conversation with Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in private and his son Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was standing at the door waiting. After waiting for some time, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went back, so I also went back with him. Later on, I met Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and humbly said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I came to you, but you were busy having a conversation with Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Your son ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also standing outside waiting (I thought when the son is not allowed to go inside so how could I?) I, therefore, went back with him.’ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said, ‘O my son Husayn! You deserve more than my children to come inside and who has grown the hair we have on our head after Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you Sadaat-e-Kiraam have grown them.’ (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 14, pp. 175)

Sayyiduna Ali’s [Lion of Allah’s] love for Imam Hasan

Sayyiduna Asbagh Bin Nubatah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ fell ill, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم went to inquire after him; we went there too along with him to inquire after him. Asking about his health Ameer-ul- Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said: O the grandson of Rasool! How is your health now? Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am better. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said: If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ willing so you will remain better, then Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said: Make me sit up with a support. Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم sat him up making him lean against his chest, then Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: One day my maternal grandfather (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) said to me: O my son! There is a tree in Paradise called ‘Shajara-tul-Balwa’. The people suffering from troubles will

be gathered beside this tree on the Judgement Day, though that time neither will the scales have been placed nor will the Books of Deeds have been opened; complete reward will be bestowed upon them. Then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following blessed Ayah:

اِنَّمَا یُوَفَّى الصّٰبِرُوْنَ اَجْرَهُمْ بِغَیْرِ حِسَابٍ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: it is the patient ones who will be paid their full reward, without measure.

(Part 23, Surah Az-Zumar, Ayah 10) (Kitab-ud-Du’a, pp. 347)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable not only have we learnt about the love of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم for his son Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, but we have also learnt from the saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم narrated by Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that those who show patience on worries, troubles and difficulties will gain complete reward for their patience on the Day of Judgement. Remember! Thousands of sets of sensible reasons are hidden in every action of Allah Almighty about which we do not know. So instead of complaining about worries and the state of our poverty and destitution to everyone and مَعَاذَ اللّٰہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ uttering blasphemous words by raising improper objections against Allah Almighty we should face these tribulations and troubles and facing these tribulations and troubles show patience and forbearance because these tribulations and troubles bring about expiation of sins and rise in ranks.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘On the Day of Judgment, when reward will be bestowed upon ill and distressed people, the people who remained safe will wish! Would that our skins had been cut with scissors in the world!’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2410)

Regarding the words of this blessed Hadees, ‘Would that our skins had been cut with scissors in the world!’ Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: i.e. [They] will wish: ‘Would that we also had suffered from such diseases in the world so that we would also be getting the reward today which other ill and distressed people are getting.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 180, Hadees 2410)

Hasanayn Karimayn’s love for each other

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: It is not permissible for any Muslim to remain estranged from his brother for more than three days and nights. Whoever between both of them takes the lead in talking will also take the lead in going

towards Paradise. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: This news came to me that Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا had any rift between them. I went to Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and humbly said: People follow you and you are estranged with each other and have broken ties with each other. You, right now, go to Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and be reconciled with him because you are younger to him. Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: If I had not heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘When two men break ties with each other, so amongst them the one who takes the lead in talking will enter Paradise first. I must have taken the lead in meeting [him], but I do not like this thing that I enter Paradise before him.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘After that, I went to Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and related the whole event to him. Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Whatever Imam Husayn (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) has said is correct. Then he (Imam Hasan) رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, met him and in this way both brothers were reconciled. (Zakhaair-ul-‘Uqbah, pp. 238)

Make reconciliation with displeased relatives

Dear Islamic brothers! If any of us is displeased with any of his relatives, he should take the lead in making reconciliation even if the relative is at fault. He should meet him affably and restore his relationship. If he has to take the lead in making apology, he should take the lead in making apology for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will achieve eminence. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنۡ تَوَاضَعَ لِلّٰهِ رَفَعَهُ اللّٰهُ ’ One who becomes humble for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows eminence upon him. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 276, Hadees 8140)

Always maintain a good relationship with your relatives. Keep treating them well because it brings only benefits.

Sayyiduna Faqih Abul Lays Samarqandi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: There are ten benefits of treating relatives well:

-1 It brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

-2 It pleases people.

-3 It gives pleasure to angels.

-4 That person is praised by Muslims.

-5 It causes pain to Satan.

-6 It increases life.

-7 It brings blessings in sustenance.

-8 It pleases the Muslim deceased forefathers.

-9 It develops love between one another.

-10 His reward increases after his demise because people make Du’a-e-Khayr for him. (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 73)

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to make your homes and society peaceful. Travel with Madani Qafilah at least for three days every month for learning Sunnah and spend your life as per Madani In’amaat. Study booklets namely, ‘ Haathon Haath Phuphi Say Sulah Ker Li ’ (Instant Reconciliation with Paternal Aunt) and ‘ Ihtiram-e-Muslim (The Respect of a Muslim) and pages from 156 to 161 from a book namely, ‘ Nayki ki Dawat ’ (Call to Righteousness) written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ in order to know about the virtues and blessings of treating relatives well. It can also be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about good company

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about good company. First of all, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: اَلْمَرْءُ مَعَ مَنْ اَحَبَّ, ‘A person will be with the one who he loves. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1088, Hadees 6718)

-2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person is on the lifestyle of his friend; so every one of you should see who he is making a friendship with. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about good company will be mentioned in Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore do attend Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to know about these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1.The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 20 September 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls about good company

٭ A good companion is the one whose sight reminds you of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whose speech increases your (good) deed and whose deed reminds you of the Hereafter.’ (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 2, pp. 247, Hadees 4063)

٭ Remember! We should only have good company and keep ourselves away from bad people. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The example of a good and bad companion is like the one who carries Musk (i.e. Kastoori) and the one who blows the bellows into furnace. The one who carries musk will either gift you or you will buy from him or you will have pleasant fragrance from him, whereas the one who blows the bellows into furnace either will burn your clothes or you will have unpleasant smell from him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1414, Hadees 2628)

٭ Every company surely has its influence. For example if you meet an Islamic brother whose eyes are filled with tears and signs of sorrow are evident on his face due to the death of his dear one, so by seeing him in this state you may also feel sad for a while. Moreover, if you sit with any such Islamic brother whose face is lighting up with pleasure due to a success, who is smiling and his blissful talk is showing gladness then you will also become happy for some time inadvertently.

٭ A blessed Hadees says: Sayyiduna Abu Razeen رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ has narrated that the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Should I not guide you about the essence of the thing by which you get the goodness of the world and the Hereafter? (That essential thing is) you attend the gathering of those who make Zikr.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 492, Hadees 9024)

٭ Dear Islamic brothers! As a matter of fact, we should associate ourselves with good environment for the good of the world and the Hereafter and have the company of righteous people and establish friendship with them.

٭ Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Avoid the company of that brother or companion whose company does not bring you religious benefit so that you remain safe and sound. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 374)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for throwing handful of sand at the grave

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima this week, the Du’a for “Throwing handful of sand at the grave” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

مِنْهَا خَلَقْنٰكُمْ وَ فِیْهَا نُعِیْدُكُمْ وَ مِنْهَا نُخْرِجُكُمْ تَارَةً اُخْرٰى(۵۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have created you from merely earth, and only to it We shall take you back, and only from it We shall cause you to rise again.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

Inquired after an ill person?

Took part in Madani Daurah?

Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

Sent a letter?

Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

