Table of Contents

Excellence of Reciting Salat and Salam ... 2

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Sha’ban is my month . 4

Letter of freedom from Hell 4

Commandment of Salat and Salam is unconditional 8

Reciting Salat in every moment 9

Ship escaped sinking . 12

Durood-e-Tunajjeena . 13

Got rid of hand pain and swelling . 13

Blessings of Beloved Rasool on Imam Boosayri 13

Madani Qafilah—One of the 12 Madani activities . 16

Heart patient recovered . 16

Cleanse hearts . 17

Sustenance gets increased . 17

Forgotten thing is recollected . 18

Remains protected from backbiting . 19

Forgiven before separation .. 19

Introduction to book ‘Guldastah Durood-o-Salam’ 20

One gets privilege to see the blessed vision of Mustafa . 20

Things will get easy over Siraat bridge . 22

Beloved Rasool will intercede on Judgement Day . 22

Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah . 24

Summary of speech . 25

Madani pearls about drinking water . 26

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 28

2. All sins forgiven .. 28

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 29

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 29

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool 29

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 30

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 30

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 30

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Excellence of Reciting Salat and Salam

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ اَکْثَرُہُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاۃً ’ The person, who would have recited the most Salat upon me, will be the closest to me amongst the people on the Day of Judgement.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

حشر میں کیا کیا مزے وار فتگی کے لُوں رَضا

لوٹ جاؤں پا کے وہ دامانِ عالی ہاتھ میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sha’ban is my month

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We are in the sacred month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, therefore having great respect for this sacred month we should worship and recite the Holy Quran more and more because this month is related to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ شَعْبَانُ شَہْرِیْ وَ رَمَضَانُ شَہْـرُ اللّٰہِ ’ i.e. Sha’ban is my month and Ramadan is the month of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 301, Hadees 4889)

In this month, Salat-‘Alan-Nabi should be recited abundantly because it is stated in Ghunya-tut-Talibeen that in the blessed month of Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is abundantly recited upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this is the month of sending Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ghunya-tut-Talibeen, vol. 1, pp. 342)

It is narrated that the person who recites Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 700 times everyday in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will designate some angels who will convey his Salat to the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم due to which the blessed soul of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be pleased, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will order the angels to make Du’a of forgiveness for the person until the Judgement Day.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 395)

Dear Islamic brothers! As this is the month of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and the month of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ today we will listen to the virtues of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Therefore,

Letter of freedom from Hell

Sayyid Mahmood Kurdi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: My mother informed me that my father (i.e. the maternal grandfather of Sayyid Mahmood Kurdi) Muhammad advised me: When I pass away and I am given Ghusl, a letter in green colour will fall on my shroud from the roof in which it will be written ‘ ھٰذِہٖ بَرَاءَ ۃُ مُحَمَّدِنِ العَالِمِ بِعِلْمِہٖ مِنَ النَّار ’ i.e. Muhammad, the one who is an Islamic scholar has been freed from the Hell due to knowledge . Keep the letter in my shroud.

So after the Ghusl a letter fell (as advised). People read the letter and then I kept it on his chest. The letter had something special that the way it was read from the front, similarly it was read from the back.

I asked my mother. What was the deed of my maternal grandfather? My mother replied: ‘ کَانَ اَکْثَرُ عَمَلِہٖ دَوَامُ الذِّکْرِمَعَ کَثْرَۃِ الصَّلٰوۃِ عَلَی النَّبِی ’ i.e. He always used to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly along with the Zikr [remembrance] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 152)

میری زبان تر رہے ذکر و دُرُود سے

بے جا ہنسوں کبھی نہ کروں گفتگو فضول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly is such a good deed due to which the letter of freedom from Hell came in front of the people’s very eyes. The people who saw this blessing of reciting Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم themselves must have made their mind to recite Salat and Salam. We should also get into the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi more and more all the time whether we are sitting, standing or walking. Many books have been written on the excellence of Salat and Salam. Islamic scholars, from time to time, also mention its virtues and benefits.

Remember! The ink of a pen may dry-out, the words of a speech may also come to an end, but even then the excellence of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cannot be fully mentioned, because the act of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is such a great act which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself and His angels carry out as well.

In Ayah 56 of Surah Al-Ahzaab part 22, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ وَ مَلٰٓىٕكَتَهٗ یُصَلُّوْنَ عَلَى النَّبِیِّؕ-یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا صَلُّوْا عَلَیْهِ وَ سَلِّمُوْا تَسْلِیْمًا(۵۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah and His angels send blessings on the Herald of the news of unseen (the Nabi); O Believers! Send blessings and abundant salutations upon him. (Part 22, Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 56)

It is stated in Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan that after the revelation of this blessed Ayah, the blessed face of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by virtue of bliss, became luminous and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Congratulate me because I have been given the blessed Ayah which I love more than ‘ دُنْیا وَ مَا فِیْہا ’ (i.e. the world and whatever is in it).’ (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 223)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This blessed Ayah is obviously a Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Believers have been commanded to send Salat and Salam to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this blessed Ayah. The most interesting aspect is that, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has issued many commandments in the Holy Quran such as Salah, Sawm, Hajj, etc., etc., but nowhere has He عَزَّوَجَلَّ stated that I also carry out this act, My angels also do it and O believers! You should also do it. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has only stated like this for Salat-‘Alan-Nabi alone. The reason behind this is very much clear because there is no such act which is carried out by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His bondman as well. Surely we cannot do the Divine works of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not need our work. If there is an act which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ carries out, angels also perform and Muslims have also been commanded to do so, it is the only act of sending Salat to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The way every one focuses their eyes on the moon of Eid, similarly every creature focuses their attention to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself extends His mercy to him. (Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 183; summarized)

اگر کوئی اپنا بھلا چاہتا ہے اسے چاہے جس کو خدا چاہتا ہے

درود ان پہ بھیجو سلام ان پہ بھیجو یہی مومنوں سے خدا چاہتا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also commanded us to send Salat and Salam besides mentioning His act and His angels’ act of sending Salat. Here, keep in mind though the same word has been referred to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, angels and believers, meaning is different from the perspective of the one it has been referred to. Imam Baghawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The Salat of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to extend mercy, whereas our Salat means to make Du’a for mercy. (Sharh-us-Sunnah lil Imam Baghawi, vol. 2, pp. 280)

Here a question arises when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself is extending mercy to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so why have we been commanded to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi i.e. to make Du’a for mercy as that thing is asked for which does not exist before. Mercy is already being descended on the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then why have we been commanded to ask for it?

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said by explaining it: O those who recite Salat and Salam! Do not even think about it at all that My mercy to My Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is conditional to your asking for it and My Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is needy of your Salat and Salam. My mercy is being extended to him continuously whether you recite Salat or not. Your birth and your act of reciting Salat and Salam have started now. Mercy in abundance is being descended to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم since there was no existence of when and then, where and there, etc. To make you recite Salat and Salam, that is, to enable you to make Du’a for the mercy of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is for your own benefit. If you recite Salat and Salam, you will get huge reward. (Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 184; summarized)

کربلا والوں کا صدقہ یا نبی! دور ہوں رنج و الم چشمِ کرم

وردِ لب ہر دم درود پاک ہو یا شہ عرب و عجم! چشم کرم

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not need our Salat at all, but rather it is beneficial for the one who recites it. The more we recite Salat and Salam the more reward will be recorded in our book of deeds, but Satan will never like that we increase our virtuous deeds by reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly. Perhaps Satan provokes this evil thought in our mind that we should not recite Salat at this or that time or in that state it is forbidden to recite or this and that Salat-‘Alan-Nabi should not be recited or it is innovation in religion to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi before Azan, so we should dispel this evil thought immediately from our mind and recite Salat and Salam abundantly whether we are sitting, standing or walking because the abundance of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is our identification. Hence, Sayyiduna ‘Ali Bin Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ عَلَامَۃُ اَھْلِ السُّنَّۃِ کَثْرَۃُ الصَّلَاۃِ عَلٰی رَسُوْلِ اللہ ’ i.e., to recite Salat and Salam abundantly on the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the sign of Ahl-us-Sunnah. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 131)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sunni Muslims with correct belief recite Salat and Salam before and after Azan, after Friday Salah and on many other occasions. Some fortunate Sunni Muslims have been found to have recited Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at the time of their death.

میں وہ سُنّی ہوں جمیلِ قادری مرنے کے بعد

میرا لاشہ بھی کہے گا اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَام

Commandment of Salat and Salam is unconditional

Dear Islamic brothers! Cunning Satan not only prevents Muslims from other good deeds, but it also provokes different types of evil thoughts in the mind regarding reciting Salat and Salam before and after Azan.

Remember! In Ayah 56 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 22, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated without any condition of time: O the believers send Salat and lots of Salam to him. It is not correct to impose any kind of condition or restraint on your own in anything that has been mentioned in Shari’ah without any condition and restraint. Since Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded us to recite Salat and Salam

unconditionally, now whether it is recited before or after Azan or at both times, it will be deemed having acted upon the commandment of the Holy Quran.

اَذاں کیا جہاں دیکھو ایمان والو

پسِ ذِکرِ حق ذِکر ہے مُصطفٰی کا

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that wherever in the Holy Quran and Hadees we have been commanded to recite Salat and Salam, no condition of any time, any state or any day, whatsoever has been mentioned, but rather we have been commanded to recite Salat and Salam unconditionally. The more a person recites the better it will be for him.

Reciting Salat in every moment

Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ narrated: I humbly requested to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Indeed I recite Salat upon you a great deal. Please tell me! How much time in a day should I fix for reciting Salat?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Whatever you wish.’ I humbly said, ‘Should I fix one-fourth of the day and night?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ مَا شِئْتَ فَاِنْ زِدْتَ فَہُوَ خَیْـرٌ لَکَ ’ i.e., whatever you wish. Yes! If you add more than one-fourth, it would be better for you. I humbly said, ‘Should I fix the half of the day and night for Salat?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَا شِئْـتَ فَاِنْ زِدْتَ فَہُـوَ خَیْرٌ لَکَ ’ Whatever you wish and if you add more, it would be better for you. I humbly said, ‘Should I fix two-thirds of the day and night?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ مَا شِئْتَ فَاِنْ زِدْتَ فَہُوَ خَیْـرٌ لَک ’ Whatever you wish, but if you add more, it would be better for you. I humbly said, ‘ اَجْعَلُ لَکَ صَلَاتِی کُلَّـہَا ’ I will spend the total time of the day and night in reciting Salat upon you. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ اِذًا تُکْفَی ہَمُّکَ وَیُغْفَـرُ لَکَ ذَنْبُکَ ’ If you do so, this would be sufficient to remove all your worries and concerns and it will be an atonement for all your sins.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 207, Hadees 2465)

ذاتِ والا پہ بار بار درود

بار بار اور بے شمار دُرُود

سر سے پا تک کڑور بار سلام

اور سراپا پہ بے شمار درود

بے عدد اور بے عدد تسلیم

بے شمار اور بے شمار درود

بیٹھتے اٹھتے جاگتے سوتے

ہو الٰہی مرا شعار درود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The more abundantly we recite Salat, the more our virtues will keep growing. The word abundance does not imply that we keep reciting Salat all 24 hours, leaving and ignoring the rights of the family members as well as other tasks. If, along with fulfilling the rights of the people, we get privilege to recite Salat then it will be a great achievement indeed. But it is not possible for everybody. For our ease, the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have given us different figures regarding the abundance of recitation of Salat. If we choose any of the figures and start the recitation of Salat accordingly, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we shall gain blessings in abundance. Let’s listen to some blessed sayings of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Quoting the blessed saying of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, ‘Allamah Yusuf Nibhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The minimum figure of abundance of Salat is 350 daily in a day and 350 during each night.’

(Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 30)

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated the saying of some ‘Ulama in Kashf-ul-Ghummah: The minimum figure to achieve

abundance of the recitation of Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is 700 daily in a day and 700 during each night. (Kashf-ul-Ghummah, vol. 1, pp. 327)

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Recite Salat at least 1000 times daily without fail, otherwise 500 times. Some pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have advised to recite Salat 300 times daily and some of them have given instruction to recite Salat 200 times after Fajr Salah and 200 times after ‘Asr Salah as well as people should make themselves habitual to recite Salat in some numbers when going for sleeping too.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further stated: One should recite Salat at least 100 times daily without fail. Some words of Salat are very easy to recite (for example ‘ صَلَّی اللہُ عَلَیۡہِ وَسَلَّم ’) If the mentioned Salat is recited with the same words then the figure of 1000 can easily and quickly be completed. If this same Salat is recited daily and the persons who is habitual of reciting Salat in abundance can easily do it with a great ease. In short! The one, who is a devotee of Rasool, derives pleasure and bliss through reciting Salat and it strengthens his soul. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 231-232)

حضور ایسا کرم مجھ پہ کاش ہو جائے

میرا وظیفہ دُرُود و سلام ہو جائے

Dear Islamic brothers! Reciting Salat daily 100 times, 300 times or 200 times in the morning and 200 times in the evening even 1000 times daily is not that much difficult. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us privilege to do so. The question arises that how did our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی managed to recite Salat 10000 times even 40000 times? How did they manage their other acts of worship, domestic and economic matters. In addition to all these things, how did they take out time for the propagation of Sunnah and for their rest? The answer of this question is that our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were not overwhelmed by the pleasure of this world. They did not fall in love with this world as we do, nor did they talk uselessly as we do.

In this way, after necessary activities such as having meals and earning Halal sustenance they used to have plenty of time which they used to spend reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Deceived by Satan we have considered this life of few days to be everything and are lost every time and every moment in luxury and the adornment of this mortal world. Alas! We pay no attention at all to the long life of the grave and most difficult and hardest stage of the Hereafter. Pious people and Pious saints knew it very well that the Hereafter life depends on the brief life of this world. If the life of this world is not spent in luxury and disobedience, there is a strong hope for eternal blessings after death by the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When these Allah-loving people spend their life according to the principles of Islam, the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and by reciting Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not leave them alone in troubles and difficulties, but rather helps them in troubles. Let’s listen to three faith-refreshing parables about it.

Ship escaped sinking

Pious Shaykh Musa Dareer [ موسٰی ضریر ] رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Once I was traveling in a ship with a caravan. Suddenly the ship reached within a range of the storm. Being the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the storm started shaking the ship. We felt sure that the ship would sink in a few moments and we all would die.

In the same state I felt sleepy and dozed for a few moments. I saw in my dream that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came and after reciting Durood-e-Tunajjeena he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You and your fellow-travellers recite this Salat 1000 times.’ When I awoke I gathered all of my fellow travellers and started reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. We had recited it just 300 times when the storm started reducing and finally it stopped. The surface of the sea became normal and by virtue of the blessings of this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi all the ship-travellers attained salvation [from the storm].

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 415; summarized)

Durood-e-Tunajjeena

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ صَلَاۃً تُنَجِّیْنَا بِہَا مِنْ جَمِیْعِ الْاَہْوَالِ وَالْاٰفَاتِ وَتَقْضِیْ لَنَا بِہَا جَمِیْع َالْحَاجَاتِ وَتُطَہِّرُنَا بِہَا مِنْ جَمِیْعِ السَّیِّئَاتِ وَتَرْفَعُنَا بِہَا اَعْلَی الدَّرَجَاتِ وَتُبَلِّغُنَا بِہَا اَقْصَی الْغَایَاتِ مِنْ جَمِیْعِ الْخَیْرَاتِ فِی الْحَیَاۃِ وَبَعْدَ الْمَمَات ِاِنَّکَ عَلٰی کُلِّ شَیْئٍ قَدِیْرٌ

دنیا و آخرت میں جب میں رہوں سلامت

پیارے پڑھوں نہ کیوں کر تم پر سلام ہر دم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Got rid of hand pain and swelling

A pious person has said: Once I fell off in my bathroom and injured my hand; it was swollen and very painful. On that night when I slept I had a dream in which I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Son! Your Salat attracted my attention.’ When I awoke in the morning, due to the blessing of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم there was no pain and even no sign of swelling. (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 140)

مرِی تاریک راتیں جگمگا دو کبھی سوئے غریباں بھی نظر ہو

ہراساں ہو مصیبت میں وہ کیونکر تمہارے لطف پر جس کی نظر ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessings of Beloved Rasool on Imam Boosayri

Imam Sharafuddin Muhammad Boosayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I had a serious stroke leaving my half of the body completely paralysed. I underwent long-

term medical treatment, but did not respond well to it. Extremely upset and disappointed I thought I should write a Qasidah in the glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and should make Du’a for my recovery to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ through its mediation. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ I succeeded. I started writing Qasidah (Burdah Sharif). As I finished the Qasidah I went to sleep. My eyes closed and the eyes of my heart opened. Fortune smiled on me and I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came in my dream. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم moved his blessed hand over my body and put his blessed chador (Burdah) over my body. By virtue of its blessing I recovered immediately. When I awoke I found that I was able to stand and move. (‘Aseedat-us-Shuhada, pp. 37; summarized) Let’s recite some couplets of the Qasidah Burdah together for attaining blessings:

مَوْلَایَ صَلِّ وَسَلِّم دَائِماً اَبَدا عَلَی حَبِیْبِکَ خَیرِْ الخَلْقِ کُلِّہِمِ

ہُوَ الحَبِیْبُ الَّذِی تُرجَی شَفَاعَتُہ لِکُلِّ ہَوْلٍ مِنَ الْاَہْوَالِ مُقْتَحِمِ

مُحَمَّد سَیِّدُ الکَوْنَیْنِ والثَّقَلَیْنِ والفَرِیْقَیْنِ مِنْ عُرْبٍ وَمِنْ عَجَمِ

یَا رَبِّ بِالمُصْطَفَی بَلِّغْ مَقَاصِدَنَا وَاغْفِرْلَنَا مَامَضَی یَا وَاسِعَ الْکَرَمِ

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cannot see the troubles of his followers; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immediately reaches to help his afflicted followers. Therefore we should also recite Salat upon our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all the time whether it is day or night. We should not become negligent in it because the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has countless favours upon us. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed Sajdah (prostration) as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came into this world and made this Du’a: ‘ رَبِّ ھَبْ لِیْ اُمَّتِی ’ i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive my Ummah.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 712)

Imam Zurqaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated, ‘On that time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was lifting his fingers up as the person [who bewails] does.

(Zurqaani ‘alal Mawahib, vol. 1, pp. 211)

' رَبِّ ھَب لِی اُمَّتِی ' کہتے ہوئے پیدا ہوئے

حق نے فرمایا کہ بخشا ' الصَّلٰوۃُ والسَّلام '

On the occasion of setting out for the journey of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم thought about his followers (Ummati) and started weeping. At the time of Divine sight and receiving special favours he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remembered his followers (Ummati). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 581, Hadees 7517)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remained sad for the sinners of his Ummah throughout his blessed life [from time to time]. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 109, Hadees 346)

When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was placed in the blessed grave, the blessed lips moved. Some blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم went closer to the blessed face and heard, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was saying Ummati Ummati (my Ummah) in a low voice. On the Judgement Day, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will protect us. All blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام will say ‘ نَفْسِی نَفْسِی اِذْھَبُـوْا اِلٰی غَیْرِی ’ (Today I am worried for myself, go to someone else) and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will say ‘ یَا رَبِّ اُمَّتِیْ اُمَّتِیْ ’ (O Rab! Forgive my Ummah). (Sahih Muslim, pp. 105, Hadees 326)

So the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only remembered his sinful Ummah throughout his life, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will also intercede on our behalf on the Judgement Day. It is the demand of love and devotion and also of respect that we should also become true Ummati and act upon his blessed Sunnah and should never become negligent in reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon him.

جو نہ بھُولا ہم غریبوں کو رضا

یاد اُس کی اپنی عادت کیجئے

Dear Islamic brothers! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loves us too much. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم supplicates and makes Du’as all the time to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the forgiveness of his sinful Ummah. Surely he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has countless favours upon us, but how is it possible for us to express thanks for all of

them. What we can do is to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon him i.e. we should make Du’a of mercy for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as the poor make Du’a for the one who is generous:

شُکر ایک کرم کا بھی اَدا ہو نہیں سکتا

دِل ان پہ فِدا جانِ حسن ان پہ فِدا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Qafilah—One of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to develop devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further in your hearts and to form the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Also participate actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs.

Out of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah one monthly Madani activity is ‘Madani Qafilah’. One of the aims of Madani Qafilah is to fill Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims. It is stated in a blessed Hadees about those who go to Masajid for Salah: Undoubtedly, those who regularly go to Masajid for Salah are Allah-loving people. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 58, Hadees 2502) Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

Heart patient recovered

Two arteries of a person from Bab-ul-Madinah [Karachi] were blocked. Doctors advised him to have angiography. One day, an Islamic brother persuaded him to travel with the Madani Qafilah of learning and teaching Sunnah and make Du’a in the Qafilah. He travelled with a 3-day Madani Qafilah.

On his return from the Madani Qafilah, he had his tests and the reports proved negative. The doctor asked him astonishingly, ‘How did this happen!’ He replied that اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he had been cured from the lethal heart disease due to the blessing of travelling with Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Qafilah.

ہے شفا ہی شفا، مرحبا! مرحبا!

آ کے خود دیکھ لیں، قافلے میں چلو

دل میں گر دَرد ہو ڈر سے رُخ زَرد ہو

پاؤ گے فَرحتیں قافلے میں چلو

Dear Islamic brothers! Reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is an extremely great act. It is difficult to mention its countless benefits in one sitting. Let’s listen to some worldly and Hereafter benefits of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for attaining blessings and the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Cleanse hearts

One advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is that it cleanses the hearts. Alas, today our heart has become so hard after being contaminated with sins that we turn a deaf ear on all good advices. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if we continue to have this habit of committing sins until our death, so what will we show to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Judgement Day. Therefore, repent of sins and form the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for cleansing the hearts. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Cleanliness and Ghusl are for everything and cleansing of the hearts of believers is to recite Salat upon me. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 281)

یا الہی درود کے صدقے

دل کا سب زنگ دور ہوجائے

Sustenance gets increased

Another advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is this that by virtue of its blessing sustenance is increased. Nowadays, poverty and unemployment are prevalent in our society. Everyone is busy finding different ways to solve economic problems. Remember, all these things are because of our bad deeds. If we act upon Islamic teachings and refrain from the acts leading to decrease in sustenance such as missing Salahs, telling lies, being unthankful

to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having no value of food and committing sins like receiving interest and fornication. And get into the habit of reciting Salat upon our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so not only can we get rid of lots of troubles, but our sustenance will also be increased abundantly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person who desperately needs something should recite Salat upon me abundantly because it removes difficulties and troubles, increases sustenance and fulfils the needs. (Bistaan-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 407)

اے حَسن خارِ غم کو دل سے نکال

غمزدوں کی ہے غمگسار درود

Forgotten thing is recollected

Another benefit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is that by virtue of its blessing memory improves and forgotten thing is recollected. Today the condition of poor memory is that after spending hours to memorize something we do not remember it for a long time and if we forget something after keeping it somewhere so we do not recollect it when it is needed.

In order to get rid of this difficulty form your habit to recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi abundantly. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ memory will become strong you will be able to recollect and the forgotten thing when needed. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When you forget something, recite Salat upon me, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will recollect that thing. (Jila-ul-Afhaam, pp. 239)

On page 169 of ‘ Madani Panj Surah ’ [Madani Treasure of Blessings] a 419-page book, published by the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami Maktaba-tul-Madinah, it is stated: If someone suffers from dementia [memory loss], he should recite the following Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in abundance between Maghrib and ‘Isha. His memory will get strong:

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمۡ وَبَارِکۡ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا

مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الۡکَامِلِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ کَمَا لَانِھَایَۃَ لِکَمَالِکَ وَ عَدَدَ کَمَالِہٖ

Remains protected from backbiting

Another advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is that a person avoids doing backbiting against the people of the Majlis in which Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is recited. Nowadays, backbiting is so prevalent in our society that the place where some people gather they start backbiting and tale-telling without any end. How dangerous can backbiting be, is judged by the narration which says: Backbiting and tale-telling cut faith as a shepherd cuts a tree. Therefore study the book written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه named ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society] in order to refrain from backbiting. If you get a chance to sit with some people, recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi yourself and also persuade others to do so. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of its blessing you will get rid of backbiting.

Shaykh Majduddeen Feerauzabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When you sit in a gathering, recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, (By virtue of its blessing) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel for you that will prevent you from backbiting. When you leave the gathering, recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, the angel will prevent others from backbiting against you.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 278)

مجھے غیبت و چُغلِی و بدگمانی

کی آفات سے تو بچا یا الٰہی

Forgiven before separation

Another advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is this, if Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is recited at the time of meeting after saying Salam and shaking hands, so those who meet are being forgiven. To say Salam and shake hands are the Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Unfortunately, this Sunnah is also getting out of practice in our society and the people who say Salam and exchange handshakes like to meet only those who they know, though Islam teaches us to say Salam to everyone no matter we know them or not. Salam and handshake not only develop love between each other, but rather those

who recite Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of meeting, are forgiven by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before they separate from each other.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When those who love each other for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ meet and shake hands, and recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), so their past and previous sins are forgiven before they separate from each other.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

جو درود وسلام پڑھتے ہیں

ان پہ رب کا سلام ہوتا ہے

Introduction to book ‘Guldastah Durood-o-Salam’

O the fortunate Islamic brothers who recite Salat and Salam upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Rejoice at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He has bestowed upon us one of the best means of [achieving] forgiveness from sins in the form of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi. Therefore get into the routine of reciting Salat-‘ Alan-Nabi abundantly and showing repentance for the forgiveness of sins.

Study a 660-page book named ‘Guldastah Durood-o-Salam’ published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami Maktaba-tul-Madinah for getting the virtues and blessings of Salat and Salam and further useful information about it. Study this book yourself and also persuade others to do so. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to form the habit of reciting Salat and Salam!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One gets privilege to see the blessed vision of Mustafa

By virtue of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi one gets privilege to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream. Every devotee has the desire to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream. He, from time to time, beseeches earnestly like this in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

یا رَب ترے محبوب کا جلوہ نظر آئے

اس نورِ مجسم کا سراپا نظر آئے

اے کاش کبھی ایسا بھی ہو خواب میں میرے

ہوں جس کی غلامی میں وہ آقا نظر آئے

ان آنکھوں کا ورنہ کوئی مصرف ہی نہیں ہے

سرکار تمہارا رُخِ زیبا نظر آئے

Surely we all desire to see the blessed vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For this purpose, we should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly with true love by fulfilling other demands of devotion. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one day we will definitely be blessed and be privileged to see the blessed vision of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The believer who offers two Rak’aat on Friday night in a way that in each Rak’at he recites Surah Al- Ikhlas 25 times after Surah Al -Fatihah, and then recites 1000 times the Salat, ‘ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ عَلٰي مُحَمَّدِ النَّبِيِّ الاُمِّيۡ ’, he will see me in his dream before the next Friday, and the person who sees me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive his sins. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 383)

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Whoever recites the Salat-‘Alan-Nabi ‘ اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدِ النَّبِیِّ الۡاُمِّی ’ 1000 times on the day of Friday, he will see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream or he will see his abode in Paradise. If the aim is not fulfilled in first attempt, then he should recite on the next Friday as well, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his dream within five Fridays.

(Tareekh-e-Madinah, pp. 343)

کچھ ایسا کر دے مرے کردگار آنکھوں میں ہمیشہ نقش رہے روئے یار آنکھوں میں

اُنہیں نہ دیکھا تو کِس کام کی ہیں یہ آنکھیں کہ دیکھنے کی ہے ساری بہار، آنکھوں میں

Things will get easy over Siraat bridge

Another advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is this that the Salat we have recited will become a Noor [light] in the darkness of Siraat bridge. Siraat bridge is the bridge that is constructed over the Hell. It will be thinner than a strand of hair and sharper than the edge of a sword. Everyone will pass over it at the speed of his/her deeds; some will cross it at the speed of light so some will do it like a strong wind blow; some will cross it as a bird flies, so some will cross it as a horse and a man run and some will cross it by dragging. The one who will be commanded to be caught will be caught by the giant hooks fixed at both sides of the Siraat bridge and then they will throw him into the Hell.

If we want to cross the Siraat bridge without any harm, we should prepare for the Hereafter in this world and form our habit to recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing the dark path of the Siraat bridge will become bright and we will attain salvation from this difficult stage. It has been narrated: ‘ اَلصَّلاۃُ عَلَیَّ نُوْرٌ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ عِنْدَ ظُلُمَۃِ الصِّرَاطِ ’ i.e. Reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon me will be a Noor [light] in the darkness of the Siraat bridge on the Judgement Day. ‘ وَمَنْ اَرَادَاَنْ یُکْتَالَ لَہٗ بِالْمِکْیَالِ الْاَوْفٰی یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ ’ And the one who likes that he be given the full reward on the Judgement Day ‘ فَلْیُکْثِرْ مِنَ الصَّلَاۃِ عَلَیَّ ’ so he should send Salat abundantly on me. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 118)

کوئی قریبِ ترازو کوئی لبِ کوثر

کوئی صراط پہ ان کو پکارتا ہوگا

میں ان کےدر کا بھکاری ہوں فضلِ مولٰی سے

حسن فقیر کا جنت میں بسترا ہوگا

Beloved Rasool will intercede on Judgement Day

Another advantage of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is that by virtue of its blessing one will be blessed with the blessed intercession by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Judgement Day. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna

‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃٌ لَّہٗ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃ ’ Whoever recites Salat upon me on the day of Friday, I will intercede on his behalf on the Day of Judgement. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2236)

Dear Islamic brothers! About the day of Judgement it is stated in Ayah 4 of Surah Al-Ma’aarij:

كَانَ مِقْدَارُهٗ خَمْسِیْنَ اَلْفَ سَنَةٍۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The duration of which is fifty thousand years.

(Part 29, Surah Al-Ma’aarij, Ayah 4)

On that day, the sun will be blazing down; the earth will be the burning copper; everyone will be perspiring too much; tongues will become thorns due to the intensity of thirst. Each one will just be thinking for himself/herself and there will be no one who will ask about the condition in this difficult time. In Ayah 34 to 36 of Surah ‘Abas, part 30 it is stated:

یَوْمَ یَفِرُّ الْمَرْءُ مِنْ اَخِیْهِۙ(۳۴) وَ اُمِّهٖ وَ اَبِیْهِۙ(۳۵) وَ صَاحِبَتِهٖ وَ بَنِیْهِؕ(۳۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: On that day man will run away from his (own) brother. And from his mother and father. And from his wife and sons.

In such a difficult situation, no one will be concerned about our safety, health and comfort, even all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام will also say to go to someone else, but there will a blessed personage who will turn the hopelessness of sinful people like us into hopefulness, who will be a support for the faint hope, who will say: I will intercede. Of course, the blessed personage is our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who will intercede on behalf of his sinful followers to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in Sajdah.

Sayyiduna Ruwayfah Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who recites this Salat ‘ اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَکَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃ ’ upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

ہے ان کو امت سے پیار کتنا، کرم ہے رحمت شعار کتنا

ہمارے جُرموں کو دھو رہے ہیں حضور آنسو بہا بہا کر

میں وہ نکما ہوں جس کی جھولی میں کوئی حسن عمل نہیں ہے

مگر وہ احسان کررہے ہیں خطائیں میری چھپا چھپا کر

Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is a short and great act, but its reward is so high that intercession of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم becomes Wajib by virtue of its blessing. Therefore recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly in order to become deserving of the blessed intercession of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and serve in its departments.

Dawat-e-Islami is serving in approximately 103 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah’. This Majlis condoles afflicted Muslims through Maktoob [letters] and gives spiritual treatment for illnesses and worries through Ta’wizaat [amulets], Award and Wazaaif [invocations]. Curing people through the Holy Quran is absolutely permissible because the Holy Quran is the best medicine for illnesses.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ خَیْرُ الدَّوَاءِ اَلْقُرْاٰنُ ’ i.e. the best medicine is the Holy Quran. (Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 116)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the benefit of the Muslims, the stalls of Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah are set up at approximately at 750 places all over Pakistan and at more than 230 places outside Pakistan. These stalls benefit every month approximately 335,000 patients and their representatives who are also given approximately

600,000 Ta’wizat and Awraad [invocations] of ‘Attariyyah free of charge. Istikharah Majlis has also been established under the supervision of this department through which a large number of devotees of Rasool every day from all over the world try to know the solutions to their problems after having had their Istikharah. Every month approximately 55,000 Islamic brothers make use of this Istikharah service.

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have had the privilege of listening to the virtues of Salat and Salam.

The act of reciting Salat and Salam brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

One who recites Salat and Salam will be blessed with the intercession of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sustenance of the one who recites Salat and Salam is increased.

Sins are forgiven by reciting Salat and Salam.

Virtuous deeds are increased by reciting Salat and Salam.

Ranks are elevated by reciting Salat and Salam.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the true love for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about drinking water

1. Two blessed sayings of beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a. Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing away from the glass). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ when you finish.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

b. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breathe into the vessel or to blow into it.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breathe into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breath, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should breathe moving the mouth away from the vessel (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any Ayah of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of cure.

Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

Drink water in small sips, large sips cause damage to the liver.

Drink water in three breaths.

Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

1. Look into the utensil before drinking water ensuring that nothing harmful is in it. (Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

2. Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ after drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

3. The leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

4. The leftover of a Muslim is a cure [1] .

5. After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will still be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہ ُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

