اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Blessed Childhood of Beloved Rasool

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever likes this that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be pleased with him when he appears in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he should recite Salat upon me abundantly.

(Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

الله کا محبوب بنے جو تمہیں چاہے

اُس کا تو بیاں ہی نہیں کچھ تم جسے چاہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A great devotee of Rasool, Sayyiduna Imam Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 75 times in the state of wakefulness. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (grandfather of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) has mentioned: Once I was sleeping beside Hajar-e-Aswad. During sleep, I had a nightmare and was overcome with fear. I went to a Qurayshi fortune-teller and told him my dream: ‘There was a tree whose height was up to the sky and branches were spread to the East and the West. The Noor [light], coming from the tree was 70 fold more than the light of the sun. The Arabs and the non-Arabs are in the state of prostration before the tree. The tree continued growing larger, higher, and brighter. For a moment it hides and in a next, it reappears. A group of people from Quraysh clung to the branches of the tree, while other Qurayshis want to cut down the tree. The moment this group of people get near to cut down the tree, a very good looking youth stopped them from cutting down the tree. I have never seen such a beautiful and nice young man. Thereafter, this impressive and dignified person broke the backs of the people of this group and gouged their eyes out.

I stretched my hand to pick the fruit from the tree, but I could not get it. I asked who can obtain the fruit of this tree. The reply came: Only those who firmly cling. Then I woke up from my sleep, frightened.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: As I saw the face of the fortune-teller, it was pale with fear. Interpreting the dream, he said: “If your dream is true, then one of your sons [i.e. your grandson] will control the east and the west; and, seeing his virtues, a huge number of creatures will associate themselves with him.” (Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 67)

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed Noor (light) Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib saw in his dream was none other than our Beloved and Blessed Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who was born on 12 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal, April 20 th 571 AD in the blessed early morning in Makkah. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 66-75)

جس سُہانی گھڑی چمکا طیبہ کا چاند

اُس دِل افروز ساعت پہ لاکھوں سلام

The dark clouds of oppression and disbelief dispersed, the fire which was lit by the fire-worshippers of Iran and had been burning for one thousand years burnt out [i.e. stopped burning] in an instant; the palace of Kisra was hit by an earthquake, causing its 14 towers to collapse, river Sawah completely dried all of a sudden, the Ka’bah began to sway. (Subh-e-Baharan, pp. 2)

چاند سا چمکاتے چہرہ نور برساتے ہوئے

آ گئے بدرُ الدُّجٰی، اَھلًا وَّ سَہلًا مرحبا

جُھک گیا کعبہ سبھی بُت منہ کے بل اَوندھے گِرے

دَبدَبہ آمد کا تھا ، اَھلًا وَّ سَہلًا مرحبا

چودہ کنگورے گِرے آتشکدہ ٹھنڈا ہوا

سٹپٹا شیطاں گیا ، اَھلًا وَّ سَہلًا مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

After the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the first lady, who was privileged to suckle the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was his real mother, Sayyidah Aaminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Then the freed slave-maid of Abu Lahab, Sayyidah Suwaybah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the honour of breast-feeding the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Thereafter, Sayyidatuna Halimah Sa’diyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the privilege to breastfeed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Seerat-e- Rasool-e-Arabi, pp. 59)

Sayyiduna Umm-e-Ayman رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is also included amongst those fortunate ladies who had the privilege to breastfeed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Seerat Halbiyah, vol. 1, pp. 124)

Dear Islamic brothers! All those fortunate ladies who breastfed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were blessed with the wealth of faith.

Apart from the blessing of Iman, other favours and bounties were also bestowed upon Sayyidah Halimah Sa’diyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Let’s listen to some parables about the blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

Shaykh-ul-Hadees ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in his book ‘ Seerat-e-Mustafa ’: The respected Arabs used to send their children for suckling to the villages in the outskirts where children would grow healthy in clean and healthy environment and would also learn original and excellent Arabic language. The language of cities at that time had mingled with foreigners and was no longer original and excellent.

Sayyidah Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was privileged to breast-feed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She said: “Along with the women of the tribe “Bani Sa’d”, I went to Makkah hoping to find any child for suckling him. Arabia was affected by severe drought that year. I had a baby but I did not have enough milk to suckle him due to destitution and starvation. The baby would continue to cry the whole night with hunger and we would spend the whole night sitting and comforting him. We also had a she-camel but it did not also have milk. While travelling to Makkah, I was riding a mule that was too weak to keep pace with the caravan. My travelling companions had been sick of it. At last, we finished the journey having faced a lot of hardships. (The women of the tribe Bani Sa’d went to different houses in search of children to suckle them. All of them found children but Sayyidatuna Halimah could not find any child for suckling. After a long struggle, fortune smiled on Sayyidatuna Halimah who was privileged to take with her the Greatest of all humans صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .)

Sayyidah Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: When I entered the house of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I saw that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was wrapped up in woollen piece of cloth which was whiter than milk and there was a green silky piece of cloth under him. The fragrance of musk and ambergris was coming and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sleeping on his blessed back. Sayyida Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: I wanted to awake him, but I was lost in his beauty. I then

gently placed my hand on his blessed chest. He smiled and opened his eyes. Then a Noor came out of his eyes and flew towards the sky. I kissed his blessed forehead with affection.

It was only by the great grace of the Almighty that Sayyidah Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was blessed with Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Bringing him into her tent, she sat down to suckle him. Blessings of Nubuwwah poured down like the rain of mercy. Sayyidah Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was blessed with so much milk that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his Raza`ee brother drank it until they felt satiated [i.e. the stomach was full]. Both of them went to sleep peacefully. When they saw the she-camel, her udders were also full of milk. The husband of Halimah Sa’diyah milked it and both of them drank it until they were full. They also slept soundly the whole night.

The husband of Halimah Sa’diyah was amazed to notice these blessings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He said: “O Halimah! You have brought a very blessed child!” Halimah replied: “Indeed! I also expect that he is a very blessed child and has been bestowed upon us as Divine grace.”

Dear Islamic brothers! There are countless blessings of the presence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyidatuna Halimah stated: Afterwards, holding the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I departed for our village. The same mule of mine that used to walk very slowly was now walking so fast that no other animal could keep pace with it. Other women of the caravan asked me in surprise, “O Halimah! Is it the same mule you rode while coming or you have bought another fast-running mule?” At last, we reached our home. There was severe drought in our village. The udders of all animals were dry, with no milk in them. But the udders of my goats were full of milk. Every day, as my goats returned from the pasture [1], their udders were full of milk, whereas no one in the tribe could get even a single drop of milk. Seeing it, the people of my tribe asked their shepherds to graze their animals on the field where my animals grazed on. Hence all began to graze their animals on

the pasture where my goats grazed on. But it was not a matter of pasture and jungle. It was actually the blessing of the Nubuwwah of the Beloved and Blessed Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . And no one other than me and my husband knew about it.

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdullah Marozi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 2 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to crawl along with children; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 3 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to stand up; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 4 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to walk placing his hands on the walls; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 5 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had full ability and strength to walk; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 6 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to walk fast; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 7 months old, he used to run properly towards every direction; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 8 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to speak in such a clear way that one could understand him properly; when he was 9 months old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to speak eloquently; when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 10 months old, he used to excel the children in archery (shooting arrow) and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to say: ‘ لِلّٰہِ دَرُّکَ یَا نَفْسُ اَنَا اِبْنُ عَبْدِ الْمُطَّلِبِ ’ i.e., O Nafs! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant you goodness, I am the son of ‘Abdul Muttalib. In the very days, people asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Who are you? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: In terms of strength, I am the strongest Arab; in terms of archery, I am the bravest; in terms of religion, I am the most exalted Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), the son of ‘Abdullah, the son of Abdul Muttalib. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 55)

الله الله وہ بچپنے کی پَھبَن اُس خدا بھاتی صورت پہ لاکھوں سلام

اُٹھتے بوٹوں کی نشوونما پر دُرود کِھلتے غنچوں کی نَکہَت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Brief explanation of the couplet: Explaining the first verse of the couplet, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: May the millions of salutations be upon the majestic face most favoured by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the incredible elegance of the blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In explanation of the

second verse he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The blessed growth and development of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is like the quick growth of the plants. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grows to such extent in a day that other children grow in a month and he grows in a month that is equal to the growth in a year. Millions of Salat be upon the matchless blessed growth. The development and growth of the blessed body of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم resembles fragrant bud because the blessed fragrance of the blessed body of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to spread fragrance in the ways. Loads of salutations be upon this matchless growth.

At another place, the great devotee of Beloved Rasool, A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

گود میں عالَمِ شباب، حالِ شباب کچھ نہ پوچھ

گُلبُنِ باغِ نور کی اور ہی کچھ اُٹھان ہے

Explanation of the couplet: It means when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stepped into youth, how majestic it will be indeed! We can determine it through this fact that when he heard the sound of Qalam (Sacred Pen) on Lawh-e-Mahfuz being in the blessed womb of his virtuous mother and being in the cradle, he moved the moon with the movement of his blessed fingers; so, when this is the greatness and eminence of the blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then how majestic will be the days of his youth? In short! The blessed youth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was one of the beautiful gardens of the Noors, uniqueness of which truly left all speechless. (Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 179)

Dear Islamic brothers! For obtaining the in-depth information regarding the virtues and powers pertaining to the childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, read two remarkable pieces of writing ‘Seerat-e-Mustafa and Seerat-e-Rasool Arabi’ publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. These books will prove incredibly informative for you as they contain facts regarding

‘Announcement of Nubuwwah’, ‘incidents taken place before and after migration’, ‘powers and authority of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’, ‘blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his graceful behaviour towards his family’ and ‘description of Ghazawat’ as well as Mu’jizaat (Prophetic miracles) in respect to lifeless objects, flora and fauna, Jinnat etc. Apart from this, other related information have been penned down excellently. Therefore, buy the mentioned books from Maktaba-tul-Madinah today, read it and encourage other Islamic brothers to read it. These books can be read online from Dawat-e-Islami website www.dawateislami.net and can be downloaded and printed out accordingly.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! For attaining the blessings and developing devotion towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, let’s listen to some incredible facts related to the childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

The blessed words the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spoke in the initial life stage were ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر کَبِیْراً وَالْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہ کَثِیْراً ’. Angels used to swing his blessed cradle. (Sublul Huda, 349/1)

Sayyiduna Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, I humbly asked: O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: I was invited to Deen-e-Islam for entering into the fold of Islam by the blessed signs of your Nubuwwat (Prophethood). I saw you talking to the moon being in a cradle and where you would gesture from your blessed finger, moon would move towards that direction. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, Hadees 8361)

Depicting the aforementioned blessed Mu’jizah, A’la Hadrat Imam Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Shah Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated in poetic words in his Na’tiyah Deewan (collection of Na’at) Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish:

چاند جھک جاتا جدھر اُنگلی اٹھاتے مہد میں

کیا ہی چلتا تھا اشاروں پر کِھلونا نور کا

Explanation of couplet: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, being lying in his cradle, whichever direction he would move his blessed finger, spiritual toy ‘moon’ would move obediently with the gesture of his blessed finger.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unlike other children, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to always keep his body and clothes clean, and instead of answering the call of nature in his clothes, he always used to answer the call of nature at a fixed time. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 56)

مَیل سے کس درجہ ستھرا ہے وہ پُتلا نور کا

ہے گلے میں آج تک کورا ہی کُرتا نور کا

Explanation of couplet: O my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Your incredibly neat and clean body is absolutely free from filth and scum. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always put on simple Qamees (long loose shirt).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the very day when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started speaking, he never used to extend his hand to take anything without reciting ‘ بِسْمِ اللّٰہ ’, nor did he took anything using his left hand.

(Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, 56)

Sayyidatuna Halimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: During the infancy period of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I was very relaxed and comfortable in looking after his blessed self. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 56)

When I would want to give him a bath, someone from ghayb (unseen) would excel me. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 56)

Like other children, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his childhood would neither cry, scream and nor would he bewail. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 56)

فضلِ پیدائشی پر ہمیشہ دُرُود

کھیلنے سے کراہت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of couplet: On the occasion of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, miraculous events took place, for example Sayyidah Aaminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw the palaces of Caesar and Kisra whilst being present in Makkah, magnificent emergence of light from blessed body spread out and enveloped the entire world. Fourteen towers of the Caesar’s Palace, which were so firm, had crackled and fallen down; a spiritual light lit up the east and the west; the flame which had been continuously blazing for one thousand years in Iran extinguished, the Ka’bah began to sway and idols falling on their heads, exchanging wishes of animals to one another etc. May Allah’s Divine mercy shower upon this great blessing and millions of salutations be upon the blessed habit of not indulging in fun and frolic.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Daily a spiritual light like sun would appear in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which covered him up and then it would disperse.

(Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp.56)

Sayyidah Halimah Sa’diyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: One day the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was in my lap, in the meantime, few she-goats passed by us. One she-goat out of them approached, placed its forehead quickly on the earth (i.e., fell on prostrate and thereafter) kissed the blessed head of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and went back.

چاند شق ہو پیڑ بولیں جانور سجدے کریں

بارَکَ ﷲ مرجعِ عالم یہی سرکار ہے

Explanation of the couplet: Such a great and overwhelming blessings were bestowed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he split the moon into parts with the gesture of blessed finger, by the order of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم trees gained the ability to speak, animals fell to prostrate before the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not only a refuge for humans but also a refuge for the whole universe. It means all creation seek refuge to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, thus the blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the refuge for all.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard about the incredible and excellent deeds of the blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to play with the moon while lying in the blessed cradle. Like other children, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his childhood would neither cry nor scream and weep bitterly . W hen the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started speaking the very first word he spoke out was the Blessed Name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Whenever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم initiated any work, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to recite ‘ بِسْمِ اللہ ’ and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always used his blessed right hand while giving or taking.

Dear Islamic brothers, following the footsteps of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we should recite ‘ بِسْمِ اللہ ’ before every permissible action and if ‘ بِسْمِ اللہ ’ is not recited then that job or task remains incomplete as the Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whatever important piece of work is not started with ‘ بِسْمِ اللہ ’, it remains incomplete. (Durr-e-Mansoor, 1/26)

Dear Islamic brothers! Therefore, before eating anything, drinking water and any beverage, serving food and water to others, putting things down, picking things up, washing, cooking, reciting, learning, teaching, walking, driving, getting up, sitting down, turning on the light or the fan, laying or removing the dining mat, folding or spreading the bed or bed sheet, opening or closing the shop, locking or unlocking, applying oil or itr (perfume), delivering a speech, reciting a Na’at, wearing shoes, adorning one’s head with Imamah (Islamic turban), opening or closing the door, that is to say, before starting any permissible act (when there is no Shar’i prohibition), it is of great virtue to make a habit of reciting ‘ بِسْمِ اللہ ’ for attaining its blessings.

Dear Islamic brothers! We should all teach our children to mention the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from their early age instead of teaching them such words as ‘Tata’ or ‘Papa.’ Not only will the deceased parents receive the blessings of this, the one teaching and the one learning will also gain its immense blessings. Therefore, whilst playing with your children, repeatedly say ‘Allah’ ‘Allah’ to them with the intention of teaching them. As soon as they are able to speak, they will be reciting the word ‘Allah’ before they learn to speak any other word.

When they learn to speak further, teach them to say Kalimah Tayyibah (Statement of Faith) ‘ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّاا للہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللہِ ’. Some people teach their children that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is above, so, when these kids are asked about Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they immediately raise their finger towards the sky. Don’t teach such type of gestures to your children at all. Remember! Childhood is the best time of providing proper Tarbiyyat (training) to children because the virtuous and righteous act that is taught to a child in his childhood, can never be taught at any other stage of his life. If a child is taught how to say Salaam instead of Tata Bye Bye, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will never forget it throughout his life. If a child is taught to speak the truth in his tender age, he will hate lying all his life; similarly, if he becomes habitual of carrying out all acts according to

Sunnah such as eating, drinking water, wearing shoes, wearing clothes, putting on Imamah and combing etc., in his childhood, he will not only keep adopting the virtuous habits but also his virtues will begin to transfer into other children. Due to lack of correct upbringing, if, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, children adopt the path of evil then such children become the source of disgrace for their parents, and their parents might also be seized in the Hereafter.

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to a person: Give good upbringing to your children because you will be called to account for your children as to what [type of] upbringing you provided to your children and what did you teach to them? (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, 6/400, 8662)

Dear Islamic brothers! How to give good upbringing to our Madani children? For this, I suggest to go through the book ‘Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad’ publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Apart from this, read the booklet ‘ Awlad kay Huqooq ’ authored by A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and remember! For Madani Tarbiyyat of children, parents’ association with Madani environment is absolutely necessary because without this, the dream of good upbringing of children will not come true.

‘Masjid Dars’ is one of 12 Madani activities

Sayyiduna Imam Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has reported in Sharh-us-Sudoor: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed to Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, ‘Learn goodness yourself and teach it to others; I shall

illuminate the graves of those who learn goodness and teach it so that they do not become terrified.’ (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 5, Hadees 7622)

‘Masjid Dars’ is one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. We should also attend the Masjid Dars and motivate others to do the same. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this will bring an abundance of virtues. Let’s listen to a parable about seeking the persuasion of Masjid Dars.

Once a Madani Qafilah visited Sukkur, Bab-ul-Islam Sindh. One Islamic brother delivered Dars after Salah, and in his Dars, he described Sunan of drinking water and in the end of Dars, he spoke about the disadvantages of drinking water in the state of standing. An elderly man was also sitting in that gathering and he began to weep, listening to the Dars. He expressed his feelings in this way that I have spent a big part of my life but I regret, I did not know about these Sunan. Now, my death is nearer but I am not aware of the blessed Sunan of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then how will I be able to identify the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my grave. That elderly man was too weak to stand without anyone’s support اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he was deeply impressed by Dawat-e-Islami and adorned his head with ‘Imamah.

دعوتِ اسلامی کی قَیّوم اک اک گھر میں مچ جائے دُھوم

اس پہ فدا ہو بچہ بچہ یا الله میری جھولی بھر دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed childhood of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was incredibly glorious and graceful because the blessings and bounties became apparent since his blessed childhood. For illuminating our hearts with the spiritual light of the devotion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, lets listen to the blessings of blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and rejoice:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to graze the goats along with his foster brother. One day the foster brother of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم humbly said to his mother: O honourable mother! When my Hijazi (from Hijaz) brother puts his blessed steps into any dry valley, it restores its greenery and fertility. When he gets at well to make the goats drink water, water itself comes up to the brim. When he sleeps, the beasts approach him and kiss his feet and whenever he sleeps in the sun-shine, cloud makes shade upon him during the heat of sun. Listening to this, Sayyidah Halimah Sa’diyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: O my son! Take care of your brother. (Ar-Raud-ur-Faaiq, pp. 303)

تِری صُورت تِری سیرت زمانے سے نرالی ہے

تِری ہر ہر ادا پیارے دلیلِ بے مثالی ہے

بشر ہو یا مَلَک جو ہے تِرے در کا سوالی ہے

تری سرکار والا ہے ترا دربار عالی ہے

Dear Islamic brothers, let us hear some more faith-enlightening parables of the blessed childhood of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to further enrich our devotion towards his blessed self.

When ‘Abu Taalib’, the uncle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took the responsibility of raising the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, loads of blessings and bounties begin to shower on his home. Abu Taalib said: Before the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, when my children would eat, they would not satiate but since the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم joined them, all children would become satiated. So, I would not serve food to my children until the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would come; similarly, when it is the time of drinking milk, I would start from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم thereafter my children would drink milk, and if any of my sons would drink milk at first, he would himself finish the whole bowl. Seeing this, Abu Taalib

would say: O Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Your blessings are great. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 95)

Dear Islamic brothers! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a virtuous Rasool of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that not only the humans but animals also knew that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the last Rasool of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is for the reason, whenever the animals would see his beautiful face, they would try to approach him to gain the blessings. Let’s listen to a faith refreshing parable in this regard.

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 10 years old, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم travelled to Yemen along with his uncle Zubayr, they passed by a valley where they saw a he-camel who did not let the people pass by. When it saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it sat down and began to rub its chest on the ground. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم dismounted his camel and rode it. When it crossed the valley, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم left it. Upon returning, the valley was full of water, all caravans stayed there. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked them to follow him then he went inside and all people from Quraysh followed him. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ dried the water. When these people returned to Makkah, they related this parable to all. Listening to it, the people said: This child is marvellous and unique. (Subul-us-Saadi, 139/2)

الله الله شہِ کونین جلالت تیری فرش کیا عرش پہ جاری ہے حکومت تیری

تُو ہی ہے مُلک خدا مِلک خدا کا مالک راج تیرا ہے زمانے میں حکومت تیری

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not like general human beings at all, rather the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with great favours and honours. Therefore, we should relate and express the eminence and greatness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly. We must not only love the most eminent personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also those ones too who have devotion towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and keep ourselves away from

those who show disrespect towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For this purpose, keep yourselves associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, as with the blessings of Madani environment, one improves his worldly and Hereafter life. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for the propagation of Islam, Dawat-e-Islami has been rendering its services day and night through its various departments. Let’s listen to the introduction of Majlis IT.

Dear Islamic brothers! Majlis IT is also one of the 102 departments of Dawat-e- Islami. To provide people of the world with true Islamic teachings and persuade them with a mind-set to reform is one of the core aims of Majlis IT. One of the achievements of Majlis IT is to present Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, the collection of Fatawa recorded by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and world famous translation of the Holy Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman in the form of software which is a very praiseworthy accomplishment. This Majlis has introduced software which is very useful in mentioning the correct timings of Salah on computer etc., in cooperation with Majlis Tawqeet. Further, more than 200 books can easily be studied through the software of Al-Madinah library.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the owner of everything and gave everything under his blessed control. Whether the Jinns or the humans, the sun or the moon, the earth and the sky and the clouds everywhere the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم rules; when he gestured at the clouds with his blessed hands, the rain started falling in obedience to him. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it.

Once an extremely severe famine struck sacred Arab, a handsome old man said to the people of Makkah: O the inhabitants of Makkah! We have Abu Taalib amongst us who is from the offspring of the founder, Mutawalli and Sajjadah-Nasheen of Ka’bah, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah. We should go

to him and request him to make Du’a. The chiefs of Arab went to Abu Taalib and humbly said: O Abu Taalib! Famine has struck the entire Arab; humans and animals are dying of hunger and thirst; caravans have stopped coming and destruction and desolation tend to prevail everywhere. Please make Du’a for rain. Having heard the plea of the inhabitants of Arab, Abu Taalib felt grieved and took the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to Haram-e-Ka’bah. He sat the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم leaning against the wall of Ka’bah and became busy making Du’a.

During the Du’a, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his blessed finger towards the sky. All of a sudden, clouds appeared from all the directions and instantly rain started falling so heavily that the land of Arab got watered. There was water everywhere in jungles and plains; the lands of bare level plains with no vegetation were full of water and flourishing green. The famine was over. The entire Arab became happy. In his long Qasidah that he wrote in praise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Abu Taalib mentioned this parable in one couplet like this: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has such an attractive white colour that by his luminous face, rain was asked for. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the helper of the orphans and the custodian of the widows.

جن کو سُوئے آسماں پھیلا کے جَل تَھل بھر دیے

صدقہ اُن ہاتھوں کا پیارے ہم کو بھی درکارہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt from the above-mentioned parable that to make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by presenting the Wasilah of His righteous bondmen in trouble and calamity is not only permissible, but it also causes Du’a to be answered. To make the righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as Wasilah is the best deed for which our Beloved Rasool himself صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has advised his Ummah. Therefore,

Sayyiduna Usman bin Hunayf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: A blind companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Please make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that I may be relieved. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: If you want, I will make Du’a and if you want, you can remain patient and it is better for you. He humbly said: Your Highness! Please make Du’a. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered him: Perform Wudu and perform Wudu well and make this Du’a after offering two Rak’at Salah:

اَللّٰهُمَّ اِنِّيۡ اَسۡئَلُكَ اَتَوَسَّلُ وَاَتَوَجَّهُ اِلَيۡكَ بِنَبِيِّكَ مُحَمَّدٍ نَّبِيِّ الرَّحۡمَةِ ط يَا مُحَمَّدُ اِنِّيۡ تَوَجَّهۡتُ بِكَ اِلٰي رَبِّيۡ فِيۡ حَاجَتِيۡ هٰذِه لِتُقۡضٰي لِيۡ ط اَللّٰهُمَّ فَشَفِّعۡهُ فِيَّ ط

O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! I implore You and put forward a Wasilah (intermediary) and am heedful of You by means of your Nabi who is the Blessed Rasool. Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I am attentive towards my Rab for my needs to be satisfied by your blessed Wasilah. O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Grant his intercession in my favour.

Sayyiduna ‘Usman Bin Hunayf has said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We didn’t stand up, we were talking, he came to us and it seemed as if he had never been blind. (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 30, Hadees 8311)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that to make Du’a by presenting the Wasilah of the righteous bondmen is the best means by which Du’as are answered. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ quickly answers the Du’a which is made by presenting the Wasilah of His righteous bondmen. If sinful people like us also make Du’a by the Wasilah of righteous bondmen and their pure and accepted good deeds, so there is a hope from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ He will fulfil our needs as He has accepted their good deeds. We make Du’a: O our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of the accepted Sajdahs of our Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, for the Sadaqah of the martyrdom of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and for the sake of the obedience of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bless us with Your eternal pleasure, Your true love and the love of Your Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم,

respect for the pious saints, steadfastness on virtuous deeds, piety and sincerity and with good end! Ameen!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have had the privilege to hear about the impressive parables of the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed childhood.

All the foster mothers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were blessed with Islam.

By virtue of the blessing of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the mule of Sayyidatuna Halimah Sa’diyah mustered energy and the udders of her animals were filled with milk.

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 9 months old, he began to speak eloquently; when he was 10 months old, he exceled the children in archery (shooting arrow).

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would talk to the moon even in his childhood.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would neither cry, scream and nor would he bewail.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would start conversation with the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would graze goats in his childhood also. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would use the right hand in dealing. He would neither cry out nor scream.

By virtue of the blessing of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the children of Abu Taalib would also get satiated.

Animals would also show reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; they performed Sajdahs and even beasts were privileged to kiss the blessed feet.

Clouds provided shade for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and started raining heavily by the gesture [with the blessed finger].

Would that all the parents keeping in mind the blessed childhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could succeed in giving their children Madani upbringing as per the correct Islamic teachings! Ameen!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners about shaking hands

Firstly, two blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

When two Muslims shake hands while meeting and ask each other about their well-being, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends down a hundred mercies between them, of which ninety nine mercies are for the one who meets the other

1. more warmly and asks about the well-being of his brother in a more beautiful manner. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 380, Raqm 7672)

2. When two friends meet, shake hands, and recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

3. When two Muslims meet, it is Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam.

4. Say Salam when leaving as well. You may also shake hands.

5. While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you.

6. The Du’a that two Muslims make while shaking hands will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be answered and both will be forgiven before their hands are separated. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 4, pp. 286, Hadees 12454)

7. Shaking hands with each other removes enmity.

8. You can shake hands every time you meet.

9. It is not Sunnah for both to just shake hands by using one hand each. The Sunnah is to use both hands for a handshake.

10. Some people just touch their fingers; this is not the Sunnah either.

11. It is Makruh to kiss one’s own hand after shaking hands.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 115)

1. If one feels lust while shaking hands with an Amrad (attractive young boy) then it is impermissible to shake hands with him. Even just looking at that boy is a sin if one feels lust by seeing him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 2, pp. 98)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool ﷺ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

