اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Value Your Time

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ مِاءَۃً کَتَبَ اللّٰہُ بَیْنَ عَیْنَیْہِ بَرَاءَ ۃً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَاءَۃً مِّنَ النَّارِوَاَسْکَنَہُ اللّٰہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مَعَ الشُّہَدَاءِ

i.e. the one who recites Salat upon me hundred times, Allah Almighty will write between both his eyes that this person is free from hypocrisy and fire of Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, He Almighty will keep him with the martyrs .’ (Mu’jam Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 7235)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

3. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Listen to an instructive parable from page No. 474 of the 826 paged-publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, namely, ‘Qoot-ul-Quloob’, and gather Madani pearls derived from it.

Sleep of heedlessness and wasting of life

An ignorant person said to a Hakeem (wise person): ‘Describe the benefits of such a thing to me that by the virtue of using it, I remain asleep even during the day time.’ The wise person replied: ‘O so and so! How unwise are you! You are already spending half of your life by sleeping (heedlessly at nights), whereas sleep is the other name of death. Now, you want to waste further three-fourths of your life in sleeping and keep only one-fourth’.

That man asked: ‘How is that?’ The wise person replied: ‘Suppose you have a lifespan of 40 years, so half of your life will be 20 years. Now you want to reduce it further to just 10 years.’ (In other words, you are already spending 20 years of your life by sleeping at night. If you remain asleep during the day also, it means you will be spending another 10 years of your life in sleep. Now what you will have in your hand to carry out good deeds for the preparation of the Hereafter will be only 10 years. Therefore, remove the desire of sleeping in excess from your heart.) (Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 474)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard how nicely the wise man reformed the person who had the desire of sleeping in excess, and how he tried to give him the Madani mind-set to think about his afterlife. The abovementioned parable especially contains admonition for those unwise people who waste most of their time only sleeping or staying in bed like bedridden patients . Such people neither care about Salah nor about the rights of their family. Remember! Sleeping in excess is such a bad habit that not only severely wastes time, but is also a mean of disgrace and humiliation in this world as well as in the Hereafter.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The blessed mother رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا of Sayyiduna Sulayman Bin Dawood عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘O my son, do not sleep till late at night, for sleeping too much at night will leave a man poor on the Day of Judgement.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 125, Hadees 1332)

It is stated on page no. 125 of the book ‘Jannati Zaywar’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: All the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: Hold firm to three habits: less talking, less sleeping, and less eating; because excessive talking, excessive sleeping and excessive eating are all bad habits and a person suffers due to these habits in this world and the Hereafter. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 125)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Time is such a Divine blessing of Allah Almighty that has been bestowed upon all the humans equally. It is not the case that a poor person has 24 hours a day and a rich person has 27 hours a day. Rather, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed 24 hours upon everyone in the day and night. Now the question is that who appreciates the value of time and who wastes it ? Because the journey of this mortal life is about to end soon.

Abode of son of Aadam

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say: O son of Aadam! You are a combination of different stages. Whenever any day or night passes by you, it brings one of your stages to an end. And when all of your stages come to an end, you will reach your destination i.e., Jannah or Hell. (Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 187)

Dear Islamic brothers! What is meant by valuing time? How to value time? Let’s try to understand it in the light of the following Ayah of the Glorious Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has says in Part 30, Surah ‘Asr, Ayah No. 1 to 3:

وَ الْعَصْرِۙ(۱) اِنَّ الْاِنْسَانَ لَفِیْ خُسْرٍۙ(۲) اِلَّا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ عَمِلُوا الصّٰلِحٰتِ وَ تَوَاصَوْا بِالْحَقِّ ﳔ وَ تَوَاصَوْا بِالصَّبْرِ۠(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: By this era of the beloved (Prophet Muhammad). Indeed mankind is surely in loss. Except those who believed (in Islam), and did

good deeds and advised one another towards truth (i.e. all kinds of good deeds), and advised one another to have patience (i.e. at the time of any kinds of suffering) [Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 30, Surah Al-‘Asr, Ayah 1-3)

The renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The man is wasting his true capital, (i.e.) his life, in Kufr [disbelief]; sin; heedlessness; seeking the world and in fun and amusement. He does not make it a mean for making his Hereafter better. Man is a trader, life is his shop and his deeds are the products of his shop. If the products [i.e. deeds] are good, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ buys them and Paradise is their price. If they are bad, then Satan is the buyer and Hell is their price. Who the buyer is, depends on the product. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 994)

Similarity between age and ice

Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has quoted a blessed saying of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: I understood the meaning of Surah Al-‘Asr from an ice-seller who was calling aloud in the marketplace, ‘Have mercy on the one whose capital is melting. Have mercy on the one whose capital is melting.’ Listening to it, I said to myself: This is the meaning of ‘ اِنَّ الْاِنْسَانَ لَفِیْ خُسْرٍۙ(۲) ’ (Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed mankind is surely in loss). (He further states): Therefore, the one whose life is being spent uselessly will be among those who suffer a loss. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 278)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how valuable our life, in fact every moment of our life is and how quickly this short journey of our life is ending! Therefore, wise is the one who does not fall prey to the deception of this mortal world. He should value the precious moments (of his life) more than jewels and gold. He should adopt piety. He should not waste his life in useless activities and worldly luxuries. He should not show laziness at all in performing the actions commanded by the Shari’ah. If our Nafs makes us

lazy, we should rebuke it. We should refrain from Shari’ah-forbidden acts without any ifs and buts avoiding any kind of delay.

If we remain indulged in the luxuries of this mortal world spending all of our precious time heedlessly in only brightening our worldly future and the angel of death comes to us, then by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We would not be given time to even say ‘ سُبْحٰنَ اللہ ’ once. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable in this regard:

No respite to even distribute wealth

It is stated on page 389 of the book called ‘Lubab-ul-Ihya’, translated as ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom ka Khulasa ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Bin ‘Abdullah Muznee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A person from Bani Israel hoarded [i.e. gathered] wealth. When the time of his death approached, he said to his sons: Show me my different possessions. Many horses, camels and slaves were brought to him. Seeing them, he began to weep in remorse.

Seeing him crying, Malak-ul-Maut (Sayyiduna ‘Izra’eel) (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم) asked, ‘Why are you crying? I swear by the One Who blessed you with all this! I will not leave until I separate your soul from your body.’ He pleaded, ‘Grant me a little time so I may distribute this wealth.’ The angel said, ‘Now you would not be granted any respite. Why did you not do it before your death?’ Therefore, Malak-ul-Maut (Sayyiduna ‘Izra’eel) (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم) (then) seized his soul.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned parable contains Madani pearls of admonition [i.e. warning] for those heedless people who always struggle to multiply their wealth by any means despite already having loads of wealth. They don’t get satisfied even after hoarding up hundreds of thousands, millions, rather billions, and having a lot of properties. The greed of accumulating wealth keeps increasing further, instead of decreasing.

Remember! Accumulating wealth is not a bad thing itself. Only that wealth is bad which is not spent on paying its Huqooq-e-Wajibah such as Zakah, Fitrah etc. Only that wealth is bad which makes us heedless from acting upon the commandments of Shar’iah, death, the matters of the grave and the Hereafter, righteous deeds and a good company. Therefore, try to understand the importance of time and accumulate Halal sustenance only as much as required.

Life is not granted again and again. Keep those Ahadees and narrations in mind too which provide guidance regarding the importance of time. For persuasion, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the importance of time:

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There are two such blessings about which many people are in deception. (1) Health and (2) leisure time.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 222, Hadees 6412)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Value five things before five things: (1) Youth before old age, (2) health before illness, (3) wealth before poverty, (4) leisure time before being busy and (5) life before death. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 435, Hadees 7916)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Every day when sun rises in the morning, the ‘day’ makes the following announcement at that time: ‘If you want to perform any good deed today, then do so. I will never return after today.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 386, Hadees 3840)

Dear Islamic brothers! Listening to the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, those people should especially wake up from the sleep of heedlessness who waste plenty of time sitting in restaurants, useless gatherings, parks, mixed amusement spots/centres (i.e. such amusement spots/centres where non-Mahram males and females gather together and loads of sins are committed through unveiling), watch films, dramas or such programs that contain music. Some people waste their time by unnecessarily reading newspapers, standing in

front of the mirror again and again, discussing current affairs and sports activities, watching, playing or listening to the updates of cricket and football, playing games on computer or mobile, talking to non-Mahram people on the phone and through the unnecessary or sinful usage of social media. It is as if they accumulate the provisions of embarrassment and regret for this world and the Hereafter.

Whereas, if the same time was spent in noble deeds such as offering Salah, observing Sawm, performing zikr or reciting Salat, reciting Quran, Hamd, Na’at, serving parents, calling people towards righteousness, making preparation for the matters of the grave and the Hereafter, bringing up children [in accordance with Shari’ah] and gaining Islamic knowledge, then blessings of these would surely be received in this world and the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Time is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . On the Day of Judgement, the way people will be questioned about different blessings, similarly, they will be questioned about time as well. They will also be asked what activities they spent their life in.

Allah Almighty says in Part 30, Surah At-Takasur, Ayah No. 8:

ثُمَّ لَتُسْــٴَـلُنَّ یَوْمَىٕذٍ عَنِ النَّعِیْمِ۠(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then indeed, on that Day, you will surely be questioned regarding the bounties (of Allah upon you).

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Part 30, Surah At-Takasur, Ayah 8)

Commenting on the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Sayyid Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: You will be questioned about those blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had bestowed upon you. For example, health, wealth, leisure time, peace, comfort etc. Through

these blessings, you used to seek pleasure and comfort for yourselves in the world. You will be asked: What uses of these things you made? How did you pay gratitude for these things? And you will be punished for being ungrateful.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, man will not be able to lift his foot until he is questioned about five things: (1) What activities was life spent in? (2) How was the youth spent? (3) Where was the wealth earned from? (4) Where was it spent? and (5) To what extent did you act upon your knowledge?

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 188, Hadees 2424)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Though the word ‘time’ is a very small word but in reality, it is something very precious. Neither can anyone purchase ‘time’, nor can anyone accumulate it. ‘Time’ is such a traveller that is travelling continuously. It does not stop even for a while and continues its journey towards its destination indifferently. ‘Time’ has played a vital role in the rise and fall of nations. Those nations who recognise the value of time and spend their days and nights with punctuality, they automatically progress and prosper.

Contrary to it, the nations that waste time while not valuing it fall prey to slavery. ‘Wasting of time’ plunges them into darkness of disgrace and humility in such a way that even their signs get wiped away. In relation to the matters of time, if we compare our lives with that of the pious bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will notice a clear difference in our and their lifestyles which will perhaps make us feel regret and utterly embarrassed. Those people were not used to spending time in useless activities; rather, they had correctly recognised the importance of ‘time’. Only a dying person knows what one goes through at the time of death, but the pious servants of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ do not remain heedless of the importance of ‘time’ even at that critical moment, but

rather, they spend even the last moments of their life performing virtuous deeds.

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard and try to understand the importance of ‘time’.

There is still time

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ahmad Bin Muhammad Bin Ziyad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: I heard Sayyiduna Abu Bakr ‘Attar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying: When Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away, some of my friends and I were present there. We saw that just before his demise, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was offering Salah while sitting due to weakness. Both his feet were swollen. While performing Ruku’ and Sujood, he would bend one of his feet which would cause severe pain and trouble.

Upon seeing this state, his friends said: ‘O Abu Qaasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! What is this? Why are your feet swollen?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ’ اَللہُ اَکْبَر! This is in fact a blessing.’ Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Hareeri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘O Abu Qaasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, is there any harm if you lie down?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘There is still [some] time to perform righteous deeds. Thereafter, there will be no such opportunity.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away.

It is also reported that when it was said to him that: ‘Huzoor! Be a bit lenient on yourself.’ Upon this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Now my record of deeds is being closed. Who will be in need of good deeds more than me at this time?’

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayat - Arabic, pp. 250)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! A wise person neither wastes his own time, nor the time of others. Rather, he values his own time, minds his own business, spends his time in good activities and persuades others to do the

same. He reforms those who have the mind-set of wasting time, and also carries out self-accountability by performing Fikr-e-Madinah if he utters an unnecessary statement. This was the very Madani mind-set of our pious predecessors. For persuasion, let us listen to two faith-refreshing parables and learn some admonitory Madani pearls from it.

1. Reformation of the one who wasted time

It is stated on page No. 829 of the 2 nd volume of the book ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad (فُضَیل بن عِیاض رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) was sitting alone in Masjid-ul-Haraam when one of his friends came to him. Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him the reason he had come for. He replied, ‘O Abu ‘Ali! I have come to amuse you.’ Sayyiduna Abu Ali Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This is something of a great worry! You do want to beautify your speech for me and [wish that] I beautify my speech for you? You lie for me and I lie for you? (Therefore, it is better that) either you go away from me or I will go away from you.’

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 287)

2. Observed Siyam for one year as expiation for one useless question

It is stated on page 173 of the book ‘ Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna Hassaan Bin Sinaan Taabi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed by a massive and towering house and asked its owner: ‘How long has it been since you constructed this huge house?’ Having asked this question, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt deeply embarrassed in his heart and addressing his Nafs [i.e. inner - self], he said: ‘O the arrogant Nafs! You waste precious time in [asking] useless and purposeless questions.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then observed Siyam for one year as an expiation of this useless question. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen – Arabic, pp. 65)

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and the value of time

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how our pious saints (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) used to spend their time in an extremely cautious manner. If any of their friends would come only for pastime, then they would bless him with the Madani pearls regarding the importance of time and reform them by telling them the harms of wasting time.

In today’s troublesome time, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is that great personage who reminds us of our pious predecessors (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) and every deed of his is something to be followed. He has divided his time in the most excellent manner. Salah, Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations), Madani Muzakarahs, study, Nafl [optional] Siyam, offering Nawafil, Madani Mashwarahs, Sahari and Iftari, meeting his disciples, Taalibs, Islamic Scholars and general public, inquiring after the ill, expressing condolences to the relatives of the deceased, Madani pearls for the encouragement of the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami for the development of Madani activities, needs of the family, Madani upbringing of [maternal and paternal] grandsons and granddaughters along with his own children’s, written work, rest and countless practices of everyday life have been divided into different timings. His steadfast practice after dividing them into different timings gives us a clear proof of the way he values time.

The best example of his Islamic and organizational success and achievements can be seen by the fact that the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has spread across the globe and more or less 105 departments have been established. These achievements also include ‘ Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’ [Questions and Answers about Kufriyah Kalimat], ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society], ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness], Wasail-e-Bakhshish, the collection of 12 booklets, ‘ Namaz kay Ahkam ’ [Laws of Salah ], ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ [Blessings of Sunnah] vol. 1 and 2, ‘ Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’ [Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil].

Furthermore, these achievements also include rulings of jurisprudence, and hundreds of Madani Muzakarahs on the topics of grave and the Hereafter, science of medicine and written matter consisting of thousands of pages.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to develop the awareness of the importance of time in the hearts and minds of Muslims and to transfer the Madani mind-set of pious saints into their hearts, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written a booklet namely ‘ Anmol Heeray ’ [Priceless Diamonds] consisting of Quranic Ayahs, blessed Ahadees, sayings of pious saints and Madani pearls full of advice.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Majlis-e-Tarajim [Translation department] has also translated this booklet into different languages which include Arabic, English, Hindi, Gujarati and Sindhi etc. Buy this booklet from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself and also present it to other Islamic brothers as a gift. It can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

By the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه valued time and then, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, became acclaimed all over the world. Not only the general public has acknowledged and appreciated its religious services, but Islamic scholars also commend its religious services and bless Dawat-e-Islami with their Du’as. Only if we also be blessed with the passion of serving Islam for the sake of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and succeed in serving Islam by taking part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

‘Madani In’amaat’, one of the twelve Madani activities

Remember! One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also to perform Fikr-e-Madina everyday according to ‘Madani In’amaat’ and submit the booklet of Madani In’amaat to the local responsible Islamic brother of Madani In’amaat on the first of every Madani [Islamic] month.

Out of the 12 Madani activities, in order to gain detailed information regarding this daily Madani activity of ‘Madani In’amaat’, read the booklet called ‘Madani In’amaat’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami, especially Nigrans and Arakeen of the Madani In’amaat Majlis, should definitely read this booklet. This booklet is available from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madina. Moreover, it can also be read from the website of Dawat- e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of this booklet, you will be able to read:

٭ Priceless things

٭ Aims of Madani In’amaat

٭ Some medical and scientific benefits of Madani In’amaat

٭ Template schedule to act upon the Madani In’amaat

٭ Method of the collective Fikr-e-Madinah

٭ Sayings of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat (دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ) regarding Madani In’amaat

٭ Du’as of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat (دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ) for those who act upon the Madani In’amaat

٭ Madani pearls of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura regarding Madani In’amaat

٭ Blessings of Madani In’amaat

٭ Questions based on the Shar’i and organisational precautions regarding Madani In’amaat

٭ Questions containing useful information

٭ Useful information regarding the mobile application

٭ List of the provisions of Madani In ’ amaat, etc.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani In’amaat are a great way of increasing the passion for becoming practicing Muslim and abandoning sins.

٭ Those who act upon Madani In’amaat, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ becomes extremely pleased with them and blesses them with Du’as.

٭ Due to the blessings of acting upon Madani In’amaat, one attains the treasure of the Divine fear and the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ This great gift of Madani In’amaat reminds us of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

٭ Madani In’amaat is a great way of following the footsteps of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی while performing Fikr-e-Madina, i.e. holding yourself accountable for your deeds.

For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable.

Reward of performing Fikr-e-Madinah everyday

Once, an Islamic brother was travelling in a Madani Qafilah. During the same Madani Qafilah, doors of mercy opened upon him. What happened was that when he went to sleep at night, his fortune shone. He saw that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has come in his dream. While he was still beholding the blessed visions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed lips started to move and pearls of mercy started flowing in a perfect prose. When these words were threaded together, they formed into the following message: “Those who perform Fikr-e-Madina daily in Madani Qafilah, I will take them in Paradise with me.”

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Some activities that waste time

Dear Islamic brothers! Instead of wasting the precious moments of our life in useless activities, we all should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and carry out the deeds which bring us success in this world and the Hereafter. But regretfully, majority of people feel proud in wasting their time instead of being ashamed and regretting over it. What are those useless acts in which we waste our precious moments and then face failures? Let us listen to 3 of such acts:

1. Internet

Dear Islamic brothers! Internet is also one of the biggest means of wasting time. Remember! As the right usage of internet has countless benefits, similarly, its wrong and unnecessary usage also has harmful effects. One of the biggest harm is the waste of time. Some people have become such habitual of internet, Facebook and WhatsApp that they do not stop using their mobile phone even for a moment. They keep sharing the updates of their sleeping, waking up, shopping, eating and various other matters with their friends every now and then. Crossing the boundaries of shamelessness and immodesty, unveiled girls are also at the forefront of this. They also feel proud in sharing their indecent pictures.

Our youth has indulged so much in the ill-usage of internet that they spend hours in it. If they do not use it someday, then they feel restless and it feels as if their time is not passing. Just ponder! Have you ever felt so sad and restless after missing reciting the Holy Quran any day? Did you feel restless in case of missing Ishraq, Chasht or Tahajjud Salah?

Would that! We could be blessed with the yearning and passion for the recitation of the Holy Quran! Would that! We could be blessed with worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly!

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا narrates that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: “Best people of my Ummah are those who

recite the Holy Quran and those who worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by staying awake in the night.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 293, Raqm 27)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

2. Mobile phone

Dear Islamic brothers! The way numerous Islamic and worldly benefits can be obtained through using internet correctly, similarly, the important usage of mobile phone is also very helpful for business matters, relationships with relatives, meeting with friends and other necessities. However, we have perhaps considered it to be a device of wasting time; especially young girls and boys use it inappropriately and unnecessarily. The whole day they play games and send such useless messages that contain indecent and strange jokes, sinful poetry and unethical utterances. Moreover, at times, there are such non-Shar’i utterances that would bring about the ruling of Kufr [disbelief] upon the person. Furthermore, they read such messages, مَعَاذَ اللہ express their joy and send them to others.

Remember! Using mobile phone the whole day causes poor vision, academic loss, elimination of thinking ability, wastage of money and the precious moments of life. If we have a mobile phone, then we should use it correctly and save our money and precious time both.

Instead of listening to songs on mobile phone, buy a memory card from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah containing Na’ats and recitation of the Holy Quran and the Sunnah-inspiring speeches of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, Nigran-e-Shura and other preachers of Dawat-e-Islami, Fard ‘Uloom Course, Madani Muzakarahs which are full of interesting and precious colourful Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge and listen to them with full attention.

Majlis IT of Dawat-e-Islami has also introduced different applications to those who have thirst for Islamic knowledge. For example, ‘Maulana Muhammad

Ilyas Qaadiri’, ‘Al-Haaj Ubayd Raza Attari’, ‘Haji Muhammad Imran Attari’, ‘Awqat-us-Salah’ (Prayer time), ‘Al-Quran-ul-Kareem’, ‘Ruhaani Ilaj’ (Spiritual cures), ‘Madani In’amaat’, ‘Madani Channel’, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’, ‘Hajj-o-‘Umrah’, ‘Zehni Aazmaish’ (Quiz application), ‘Kalimah and Du’a’, ‘Tajheez-o-Takfeen’ (Burial and shrouding), ‘Kalam-e-A’la Hadrat’ and ‘ Madani Qa’idah’, etc. One can acquire abundant of Islamic knowledge through these applications too. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Wandering around and bad company

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who know the value of time are used to doing their work on time instead of wasting it. Such people are respected in the society. On the other hand, those who delay in doing every work due to laziness do not achieve any prominent status and also waste their time. The affairs of some people suggest as if their life is meaningless. They wander with friends in the streets and markets, go to entertainment places by spending money and time and commit sins, have chat for hours sitting in the corners of the streets and cafes, watch movies the whole day, and listen to songs using hands-free, etc. It seems as if they have forgotten the real purpose of their life.

Remember! We have not been given this life to spend it in the luxuries of this world. Rather, we have been sent to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, act upon His commandments and to abstain from the acts of His disobedience. And this opportunity is also available to us until we are alive. May Allah Almighty enable us to understand this true purpose of our life. Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely life is too short. If we do everything on time instead of wasting our life in meaningless activities and spend it in performing good deeds instead of committing sins, then our world and the Hereafter both will get better. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی proved to be the ones who valued time. Hence, they are still highly acclaimed amongst

all the people. For example, we consider it a privilege to talk about the blessed companions, Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar, Tabi’een, Tab’-e-Tabi’een رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, pious saints, Muhaddiseen, Mufassireen, Ulama e Deen and blessed Sufiya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی etc., who are great personalities. Upon calling their names, we spontaneously say ‘ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ’ and ‘ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’. Why is it? It is because those blessed personalities were well aware of the importance of time. Let us get some Madani pearls of advice by listening to 5 blessed sayings of those who valued time.

Sayings o f those who valued time

1. Amir-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘These days are the pages of your life, decorate them with good deeds.’

2. The famous companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘I do not feel ashamed on anything else more than the day which passed without increase in my good deeds.’

3. The great leader of millions of Shafi’is, Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘I remained in the company of pious people for a long time, gaining spiritual benefits. I learnt two important things from their company: (1) Time is like a sword . You should cut it (with good deeds) or else it will cut you (by indulging you in useless things) (2) Safeguard your Nafs. If you do not keep it busy in a good deed, then it will indulge you an evil deed.’

4. The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Having to leave out religious activities (writing or studying) at the time of eating food saddens me severely because time is a very valuable asset.’ (Anmol Heeray, pp. 16 - 18)

5. Sayyiduna Imam Abu Zakariyya Bin Sharaf Nawavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never used to waste his time. Neither during the day nor at night. To the extent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would either be reading or revising a book even whilst coming or going somewhere. This way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent many years

in seeking ‘ilm [Islamic knowledge]. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had divided his time. All his time would be spent in righteous activities. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had fixed times for writing books, teaching, offering Nawafil, reciting the Holy Quran, pondering over the matters of the Hereafter, conveying the call to righteousness and forbidding from evil. (Faizan Riyad-u-Saliheen, pp. 14)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of valuing time

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just been privileged to hear about time-wasting activities and the sayings of those who recognized the value of time. Listening to them would have increased our passion to value time. In order to make our passion firm, let us listen to some of the methods that by the virtue of acting upon them we can attain steadfastness over using our time in the correct manner.

14 ways of using time in a correct manner

1. Abstain from the unnecessary use of mobile phone and internet. Use simple and inexpensive mobile phone if necessary.

2. Try to get into the habit of having conversation in writing as much as possible. Otherwise, have conversation in as minimum words as possible.

3. In order to increase the passion of valuing time, keep yourself busy in virtuous acts as much as possible and plan a Jadwal [schedule] for the whole day which should not contain useless and time-wasting activities.

4. If possible, wake up early in the morning and perform Tahajjud Salah.

5. Call out Sada-e-Madinah to wake up family members and others for Fajr Salah.

6. Join Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah and either recite or listen to three Ayahs of the Holy Quran with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary from Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, Noor ul ‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan. You will gain its blessings.

7. Also offer the nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht.

8. After you have taken breakfast, start acquiring ‘ilm [knowledge] from Jami’a-tul-Madinah or become busy in earning Halal livelihood for your family.

9. In the meanwhile, offer the Zuhr and ‘Asr Salah with Jama’at.

10. After offering Maghrib Salah with Jama’at, listen to the Dars and Bayan. Thereafter, offer the Awwabeen Nawafil as well. Then after Isha Salah, learn the recitation of the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation in Madrassa tul Madina Baalighan. Moreover, develop a habit of going to sleep early after completing the other important tasks. Staying up late without a reason would make one lazy in getting up for Fajr Salah in the morning.

11. Apart from this Jadwal, protect your tongue in order to avoid unnecessary talk all day long.

12. Do Zikr and recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly in free time.

13. Instead of watching films and dramas and other sinful channels, watch 100% Islamic channel, ‘Madani Channel’, and also persuade your household to do so. No doubt, “Madani Channel” is the only channel which you can watch with your family.

14. Rather than spending the day we are off from work in useless activities, only if we could be privileged to participate in the ‘Madani Dora’ [Madani visit] with the intention of presenting the call towards righteousness to the Muslim Ummah. If we prepare our schedule like this and act upon it, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our time will be spent in virtuous deeds, rather than being wasted in useless activities.

Dear Islamic brothers! How was the blessed time of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم divided? How can the time be used correctly? How can we serve Islam more in less time? How can worship be included in our schedule? What are the benefits and importance of schedule? Should the schedule also include household chores? How was the schedule of the blessed lives of the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی ? How should the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami prepare their schedule? What intentions can be made when preparing a schedule? In order to get answers to all these questions, purchase the booklet called ‘ Aqa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ka Jadwal ’ [Schedule of Aqa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madina. Read it yourself and give it as a gift to others too. This booklet is also available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . Along with being available at the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madina, this booklet can also be read and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The department of Madani In’amaat

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is serving Islam in more or less 105 departments. Out of these departments, one is the department of ‘Madani In’amaat’ . As per the desire of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, the department of ‘Madani In’amaat’ was established in order to persuade Islamic brothers, sisters and students of Jami’ah-tul-Madinah and Madaris-tul-Madinah to become practicing Muslims in the light of Madani In’amaat. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ states: Along with fulfilling other Faraaid and Wajibat, I wish that all Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters also enforce Madani In’amaat in their lives and all responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami and Islamic sisters spread them (the booklet of Madani In’amaat) across in their Zayli Halqahs. Moreover, may every Muslim attain the greatest of the rewards of becoming the neighbour of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus with the Grace and Mercy of Allah Almighty after adopting the Madani In’amaat with sincerity for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter. Let us also actively participate in the righteous activities and not

only act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but earn abundant of reward by persuading other Islamic brothers for it too.

[Ddgggggggg

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of putting kohl

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 359, vol. 5)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of applying kohl will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘Ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 21 February 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of putting kohl

1. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl/Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, p. 180, vol. 6)

2. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

٭ Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

٭ Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for abstaining from backbiting

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for ‘ abstaining from backbiting ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

‘When you sit in a gathering and recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will designate an angel that will keep you from backbiting. When you depart from that gathering and recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, the angel will keep others from backbiting against you.’

(Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 25)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

