Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech.

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Prayers, plus Warnings against Missing Prayers

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

زَیِّنُوْا مَجَالِسَکُمْ بِالصَّلَاۃِ عَلَیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاَتَکُمْ عَلَیَّ نُوْرٌلَّکُمْ یَوْمَ القِیَامَۃِ

Beautify your gatherings by reciting Salat (salutations) upon me; because the Salat you recite upon me, will be Noor for you on the day of judgement.

(Jaami'-us-Sagheer, pp. 280, Hadees 4580)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic Sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Salah is extremely pleasant worship. It has countless blessing and excellence. By the blessing of Salah, diseases get removed. Salah is a means of blessing in the sustenance and it saves from the torment of grave and is a source of light in the dark grave as well. Contrary to this, there are warnings of severe torments for those who do not offer Salah. In today’s weekly Ijtima, we will listen to the importance of Salah, the excellence of Salah and the torments of not offering Salah. Let’s first listen to a parable.

Salah of Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه once visited Sayyiduna ‘Aasim Bin Yusuf Muhaddis رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna ‘Aasim Bin Yusuf Muhaddis رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, “O Haatim! Do you perform your Salah properly?” Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه answered in the affirmative, and then Sayyiduna Haatim Asam asked the same question to Sayyiduna ‘Aasim Bin Yusuf Muhaddis رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . In response to the question, He replied, “I perform ablution correctly, completely and in the proper order when the time of Salah draws near, then I place my feet on praying mat keeping every part of my body in balance at the exact time of Salah”. In my heart, I observe the imagination of Blessed Ka’bah between both of my eyebrows and Maqaam-e-Ibraheem in front of my heart then having this belief that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is aware of all my apparent and hidden thoughts, I stand in such a way as if my feet are on Pul-e-Siraat (bridge of Siraat), Jannah is at my right side, Hell is at my left side, Malak-ul-Maut (angel of death) is standing behind me, then assuming it to be my last Salah, I say Takbeer-e-Tahrimah (first Takbeer) with all sincerity and start recitation with deep contemplation and pondering then I perform Ruku’ (bow) with humbleness and perform Sajdah (prostration) with a profound sense of humility. I complete my Salah with overwhelming Khushu’ and Khuzu’ (fear and humility). Surprised, Sayyiduna ‘Aasim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked, ‘O Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه do you really perform each of your Salah in this way?’ Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied in affirmative saying that ‘For thirty years I have been performing my each Salah in this way.’ (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 01, pp. 33)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of Salah

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you observed the heights of sincerity and overwhelming fear of our predecessors while performing Salah, in spite of that, they used to remain in the state of fear and hope, whether their Salah are accepted or not. But, alas, on one hand the majority of Muslims is heedless of performing Salah, by neglecting Salah they are indeed violating the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for the rest of those who do perform their Salah but how many, out of them, perform their Salah with sincerity and how many, out of them, perform their Salah having no sincerity? Do not know how many Muslims take care of Khushu’ and Khuzu’ (humility of heart and body) and how many Muslims think about their friends, business, house etc., in their Salah instead of Khushu’ and Khuzu’? Do not know how many Muslims take care of Sunan, Wajibat and other elements of Salah and how many Muslims are those who keep focusing on their necessities, desires and objective during Salah? Remember, among the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Salah has a great importance which can be understood from this that the first question among the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on the judgment day, will be about Salah. It is stated in blessed Hadees:

اَوَّلُ مَا یُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَا تُہ

‘i.e., the first question on the day of judgement will be about Salah.’

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah ‘Abdur Rauf Manawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in the interpretation of aforementioned Hadees that ‘Undoubtedly Salah is a symbol of Iman and it is an important worship.

(At-Tayseer Sharah Jami-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 391)

Dear Islamic sisters! No worship possesses such a great significance as Salah does. Salah is the most important obligatory act of Islam. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had prayed for himself and his offspring especially about Salah which is also mentioned in the Holy Quran.

رَبِّ اجْعَلْنِیْ مُقِیْمَ الصَّلٰوةِ وَ مِنْ ذُرِّیَّتِیْ ﳓ رَبَّنَا وَ تَقَبَّلْ دُعَآءِ(۴۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O my Lord! Keep me as one who establishes prayer, and some of my descendants; O our Lord! and accept my prayer.’

(Surah Ibraheem, part: 13, Ayah 40)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you seen that, in spite of being a chosen Nabi, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is praying for himself and his offspring? Therefore, keeping in mind the importance of Salah, we should not only perform Salah five times but also persuade our sane children to do so. It has been commanded in Blessed Hadees that the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had stated, ‘Command your children to offer Salah when they become seven years old, and discipline them for it (if still they refuse to offer Salah) when they become ten years old.’

(Abu Dawood, Book of Salah, Hadees 498, vol. 01, pp. 208)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Numerous glad tidings and virtues of Salah have been stated in the Holy Quran and Blessed Ahadees for those who offer Salah. Let’s listen to two Divine sayings for making minds to offer Salah regularly and acquiring knowledge of Deen.

وَ الْمُقِیْمِیْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ سَنُؤْتِیْهِمْ اَجْرًا عَظِیْمًا۠(۱۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who keep the prayer established and those who pay the charity, and those who believe in Allah and the Last Day; to such, We shall soon bestow a great reward. (Part 6, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 162)

وَ قَالَ اللّٰهُ اِنِّیْ مَعَكُمْؕ-لَىٕنْ اَقَمْتُمُ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَیْتُمُ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah said, ‘Indeed I am with you; surely, if you establish the prayer and pay the charity, and believe in My Noble Messengers and respect them, and lend an excellent loan to Allah, I will surely forgive your sins, and I will surely admit you into Gardens beneath which rivers flow. (Surah Al-Maida, part: 06, Ayah 12)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great are the favours for those who offer Salah. At some places glad tidings about Jannah and forgiveness and at other places glad tidings of rewards are being conveyed to them. Motivation and importance of Salah has also been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to few blessed Ahadees on the excellence of Salah in order to attain encouragement. It is reported by Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, that a person came in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and asked about the best act. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Salah’ He then asked, ‘After this?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Salah’ He then again asked, ‘After this?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم again replied, ‘Salah’ He repeated the same question, ‘After this?’ This time the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Jihad in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ (Musnad Imam Ahmad, Hadees 6613)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you observed that how excellent is the act of Salah. In response to the same question asked three times, the blessed and beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated each time, ‘Salah is the best act’ and in response of fourth time asking, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Jihad’. So, we must prefer Salah to all our worldly affairs and prepare ourselves for Salah leaving all mundane activities as soon as the time of Salah begins and perform it with Khushu and Khuzu because by performing Salah correctly not only we attain the countless blessings but also another overwhelming

advantage is that this Salah will become a source of our forgiveness and salvation on the day of judgment.

Salvation for those who perform Salah with Khushu and Khuzu

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made five prayers obligatory. If anyone performs ablution for them properly, offers them at their right time, and observes perfectly their bowings and prostrations with Khusu and Khuzu (humility of body and heart), it is upon the Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will pardon him; if anyone does not do so, there is no guarantee for him on the part of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ may pardon him if He wills, and punishes him if He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills. (Sunan Abu Dawood, book of Salah)

Each Salah is expiation for the past sins

Narrated by Sayyiduna Haris رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that Sayyiduna Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was sitting with us and Muazzin came. Sayyiduna Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had some water brought and performed ablution. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘ I have seen the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performing ablution in the same way and I have heard the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying that, ‘One who performs ablution the way I do and performs Zuhr Salah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins, i.e., those sins which are committed between the Fajr Salah and Zuhr Salah, when he performs ‘Asr Salah then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins committed between the Zuhr Salah and ‘Asr Salah, when he performs Maghrib Salah then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins committed between the ‘Asr Salah and Maghrib Salah, when he performs Isha Salah then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins committed between the Maghrib Salah and Isha Salah, then he may stay laying the whole night and after waking up performs Fajr Salah, his sins committed between the Isha Salah and Fajr Salah are forgiven and these are the virtues which will keep the evils away.

(Al-Ahadees-ul-Mukhtar, vol. 01, Hadees 324)

Salah washes away sins

The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘If any of you have stream in your courtyard, he takes Ghusl five times in it, would he have any dirt left on him?’ The People said, ‘No dirt would remain on him.’ The Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said, ‘Salah wipes away the sins as water washes away dirt.’

Dear Islamic sisters! How lucky are those who perform Salah, indeed the rain of blessings washes away their sins, blessings of Salah forgive the past sins and one keeps away from immoral activities and sins in future as well. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in Quran:

اِنَّ الصَّلٰوةَ تَنْهٰى عَنِ الْفَحْشَآءِ وَ الْمُنْكَرِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Indeed the prayer stops from indecency and evil’. (Al-Ankaboot, Ayah 45)

Dear Islamic sisters! Ponder for a moment that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘Indeed the prayer stops from indecency and evil.’ So, why do not we refrain from Haram, sinful and Haram (forbidden acts in Shari’ah) activities despite performing Salah, we disobey parents despite performing Salah; we are indulged in immodesty and unveiling leading to evil sightedness despite performing Salah; we watch movies and dramas, listen to music and songs despite performing Salah; an endless process of falling speedily into the incomprehensible depth of sins is continued by misusing mobile phones, internet and social media despite performing Salah; speaking abusive language, backbiting, tale-telling, taking and giving interest, bribe, hurting people, using foul language etc., are booming in our society despite performing Salah. Why is it happening so despite performing Salah?

There is no doubt at all that the aforementioned blessed saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is undeniably true. Those who offer Salah, should certainly avoid sins. So what is the reason behind adopting un-Islamic culture and immoral fashions? Why do not our hearts get inclined towards adopting Sunnah?

Dear Islamic sisters! It is apparently obvious that Salah stops from evils. We should examine our Salah, learn apparent and hidden Sunnah and etiquettes of Salah and rectify our ablution and Ghusl. If we offer Salah keeping all apparent and hidden Sunnah and etiquettes in view then we shall surely reap its blessings and surely all our apparent and hidden dirt and filths would be washed away and we shall become pious, good looking, good natured having appearance in conformity with Shari’ah, plus our characters reflect the Sunnah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessings of Salah

Dear Islamic sisters! Salah is a very great act of worship. The act of Salah leads its worshippers to Jannah; Salah is the best act of worship of Momin, Salah is Noor (light); Jannah becomes Wajib for those who offer 2 Rak’at Namaz with Khushu-o-Khuzu, two Rak’at Salah is better than the whole world; Salah is the most favourite of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; in return of each Sajdah (prostration) of Salah, one virtue is registered, one sin is wiped away and one rank is raised. Performer of Salah will be led to enter Jannah with peace on the Day of Judgment. Salah wipes away sins, Salah wipes away the filth of sins, one Salah wipes away the sins committed in the span between present and last Salah, performer of Salah passes her night in peace and tranquillity, Salah wipes away evils, performer of Salah will enter Jannah, innocent angels intercede in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the performer of Salah, performer of Salah remains in the protection of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Salah prays for the performer of Salah for her protection, performer of Salah is a true Muslim, performer of Salah will be rewarded in its totality. Salah blackens the face of Satan.

‘Weekly Sunnah inspiring Ijtima’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to make up mind of offering Salah regularly, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat e Islami. One of the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is to attend the ‘Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Fix any day of the week and arrange weekly Sunnah-inspiring

Ijtima’ at Zayli Halqah, Halqah or city level with proper veiling. Day and time should be fixed. Attendance target: At least 12 Islamic sisters per Zayli Halqah (duration: maximum 2 hours). Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ should be conducted in accordance with the Madani pearls. Islamic sisters are not allowed to use Mic., Megaphone, CD player and Echo sound etc. This Madani activity has countless worldly and hereafter benefits.

٭ By the blessing of Sunnah inspiring Ijtima, priceless pearls full of religious knowledge are propagated to Muslim Ummah.

٭ Sunnah inspiring Ijtima’aat are extremely helpful in making those people who do not offer Salah the Salah-offering ones.

٭ By the blessing of Sunnah inspiring Ijtima, the image and reputation of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani environment gets propagated.

٭ Du’as made in Sunnah inspiring Ijtima are answered. Moreover, speeches on lifestyles of blessed companions and pious saints are delivered.

٭ For persuasion let’s listen to a Madani parable of attending weekly Sunnah inspiring Ijtima’ and make intention to participate regularly in it.

I found the right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat . The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired

by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the Siyam of Ramadan. In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are very fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed us with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy spreading the call towards righteousness in more than 103 departments for preaching Islam. ‘Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah’ is also one of these departments. It has been established to properly teach the manners of visiting the Baytullah and blessed Raudah and to teach the necessary rulings to Islamic brothers and sisters who go to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah. The expert preachers (Islamic brothers) of this Majlis go to Haji camps in the days of Hajj and teach the manners to male Hajj pilgrims every year, whereas female preachers (Islamic sisters) teach these manners to female Hajj pilgrims.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Those who go to Makkah and Madinah for Hajj and visit to Madinah are presented with the books Rafiq-ul-Haramayn and Rafiq-ul-Mu’tamireen, written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat as a gift under the supervision of this Majlis so that the guests of the House of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and

the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can succeed in performing this worship in a proper manner.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is himself ‘greedy for good deeds’ and also persuades the Muslim Ummah to perform good deeds. He has presented 19 Madani In’amaat for Hajj and the journey to Madinah in the form of questions.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! There are numerous virtues and blessings of Salah, in the same way, there are also countless harms and torments for missing Salah. A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘One who has missed just one Salah deliberately, he deserves dwelling in Hell thousands of years unless he repents and perform Qada Salah for it.’

(Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 09, pp. 158)

Dear Islamic sisters! Think about it; in case of missing one Salah, one has to suffer in the Hell thousands of years then how serious will be the torment for those who are indulged in this bad habit of missing all Salahs every day. If anyone is indulged in this bad habit then she should repent immediately, plus she should offer Qada Salah for it. Otherwise, remember that torment of Hell is unbearable.

It is reported that when the lightest torment will be inflicted to a person, she will assume, ‘I am receiving the most painful torment.’ While, in fact, it will be totally contrary. Hence, Sayyiduna Ibn Abbas reports that the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The person who will have the least punishment among the people of Hell will be made to wear shoes of fire which would cause his brain to boil.’ (Bukhari, vol. 04, Hadees 6561)

Dear Islamic sisters! Imagine that, if just this torment is given to us due to missing Salah, we would not be able to bear it because our feet are sensitive

enough that if these are to be placed on the fireball for a moment, the whole body will be shaken violently. Even the pain of light headache and pricking of thorn becomes unbearable for us then what about that torment which boils the brain? Do we have such courage to face this torment? It is reported that one who delays Salah from its correct time, his abode would be a horrible valley named ‘Wayl’. From which even the Hell itself seeks refuge (Naykiyon ki Jaza’yn aur Gunahon ki Saza’yn). So think about it; one who misses a single Salah, how terribly she will be treated! And the person who is totally heedless of Salah; how will she be treated?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Quran says for those who miss their Salah deliberately.

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And after them came the unworthy successors who squandered prayer and pursued their own desires, so they will soon encounter the forest of Ghayy in Hell.”

Horrible well of horrific valley of Hell

Blessed Ayah mentions ‘Ghayy” and it implies, ‘A valley of Hell’. Sadr-us-Shari’ah Hadrat Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Ghayy is a valley in the Hell which is massive and most heated; it occupies a well also, known as ‘Habhab’, when the fire of hell starts cooling down, the mouth of this well is opened and fire of Hell is blazed again constantly. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says:

كُلَّمَا خَبَتْ زِدْنٰهُمْ سَعِیْرًا(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Whenever it is about to extinguish, We will inflame it more for them.’

This well is an abode of those who do not perform Salah, adulterers, drunkards, those who give and take interest (Riba) and those who are the cause of the trouble of their parents. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 01, pp. 434)

Well of the world

Dear Islamic sisters! Tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, remember your sins and seek forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; otherwise remember that, this wealth, in which, we are badly engaged, is impermanent and the world and its pleasures in which we are engrossed, is temporal and mortal. It is continued until the flow of breath is intact and there is no guarantee that how long it may continue or when it may get discontinued. Therefore, value the precious moments of your life and disengage yourselves from sins; connect yourselves with virtues and spend your time in calling towards righteousness with passion and commitment. There is a lesson of warning in the mentioned narration for drunkards, adulterers, those dealing in interest (Riba) and those who cause pain to their parents. In order to figure out the horrible well of fire, stand at the edge of any deep well of world observing the immeasurable depth of it and imagine if we are made captives in this worldly well then shall we be able to bear this suffering and punishment? Certainly not; so how shall we able to bear the torment of the well of Hell.

Think a while, how shall we be able to face the torment of Hell, if we are inflicted, as a result of disobeying parents, hurting Muslims, adultery, drinking and missing Salah. Our sensitive body cannot bear the slightest heat; how will it bear the fire of Hell? We start crying and become restless upon the mosquito sting. If the snakes and scorpions of Hell wrap around our bodies then what shall we do?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! No calamity is more dangerous than missing Salah, but, alas, the majority of our society is indulged in it and no one bothers about it. It is reported that if our pious predecessors رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would miss only Takbeer-e-Oula and miss congregational Salah, they would weep three days

and seven days respectively. (Jawahir-ul-Bayan, pp. 35) We miss Salah but there is no regret. It is reported that Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه once missed his congregational Salah. He said, ‘Except Abu Ishaq Bukhari, no one came to me for consolation. If my son had died then more than ten thousand consolers would have visited me. Alas, to people trouble of Deen is easier than the trouble of world.’ (Jawahir-ul-Bayan, pp. 35)

Remember that! Only worships would work in the grave and hereafter. Wealth, offspring, business activities, due to them you miss your Salah, nothing out of them would be beneficial. Those people, who miss their Salah under the pretext of different activities, listen to this Hadees exclusively.

The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘One who seeks protection of Salah [performed it with punctuality], Salah will become ‘Noor and Burhan’ (i.e., testimony) for him on the Judgement Day and the one who did not seek the protection of Salah, he would neither have ‘Noor’ nor ‘Burhan’(i.e., testimony) and nor would he have salvation and such a person will be with Qaroon, Pharaoh, Haman, and Ubayy bin Khalaf in the Hereafter.

(Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, Hadees 6587)

Respected Scholars have stated in the commentary of this blessed Hadees: ‘Those who have not performed Salah will be treated with these people because, if the one who’s wealth kept him heedless of Salah then he is like Qaroon; therefore, will be raised with him; if his rule plunged him into ignorance then he is like Pharaoh and will be treated with Pharaoh and if the cause of his ignorance is his ministry then he is like Haman, therefore, will be treated with Haman or if his business plunges him into ignorance then he will be raised with Ubayy bin Khalaf on having resemblance with him.’

(Kitab-ul-Kaba’ir, pp. 21)

Dear Islamic sisters! In this blessed Hadees, there is a critical lesson for those who remain busy in their business activities and miss their Salah and if they are invited for Salah, they give pretext of business activities. Such people should ponder upon this Ayah of Quran:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا لَا تُلْهِكُمْ اَمْوَالُكُمْ وَ لَاۤ اَوْلَادُكُمْ عَنْ ذِكْرِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ مَنْ یَّفْعَلْ ذٰلِكَ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْخٰسِرُوْنَ(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O People who Believe! May not your wealth or your children cause you to neglect the remembrance of Allah; and whoever does this – so it is they who are in a loss.’

Mufti Sayyid Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in the commentary of this blessed Ayah: ‘Here remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ implies five times Salah or the Holy Quran. And (one who remains heedless of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) i.e., forgets Deen by engrossing himself in worldly activities, does not care about his own condition due to indulging himself in the intoxication of wealth and remains heedless of the comfort of hereafter for the pleasure of his offspring (such person is in loss). He did not care about his eternal life of hereafter due to the mortal worldly life.

(Khaza’in-ul-Irfan, Al-Munafiqoon, Ayah 09)

Who guarantees sustenance?

Undoubtedly, no one can deny this admitted fact that, all the living beings in the world whether they are advanced and civilized dwellers of cities or the villagers of the villages, beasts living in dense forests or the birds living in the nest made on the tops of trees, the fish living in the depths of oceans or the insects living inside the bellies of stones reciting Tasbeeh (Praising to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) Guarantee of the sustenance of every living being rests with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ alone. Hence, it is stated in blessed Quran:

وَ مَا مِنْ دَآبَّةٍ فِی الْاَرْضِ اِلَّا عَلَى اللّٰهِ رِزْقُهَا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And there is none that walks upon the earth whose sustenance does not depend on the mercy of Allah.’

When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself takes the guarantee of sustenance for every living being then we should have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of missing Salah due to our business activities. Whatever the sustenance is in our destiny, will approach to us and other affairs will get resolved too اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Allah says in the Holy Quran:

وَ مَنْ یَّتَّقِ اللّٰهَ یَجْعَلْ لَّهٗ مَخْرَجًاۙ(۲) وَّ یَرْزُقْهُ مِنْ حَیْثُ لَا یَحْتَسِبُؕ-وَ مَنْ یَّتَوَكَّلْ عَلَى اللّٰهِ فَهُوَ حَسْبُهٗؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ بَالِغُ اَمْرِهٖؕ-قَدْ جَعَلَ اللّٰهُ لِكُلِّ شَیْءٍ قَدْرًا(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And whoever fears Allah - Allah will create for him a way of deliverance. And will provide him sustenance from a place he had never expected; and whoever relies on Allah – then Allah is Sufficient for him; indeed Allah will accomplish His command; indeed Allah has set a proper measure for all things.’ (At-Talaaq, Ayah 2-3)

The blessed and beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Certainly sustenance seeks bondman [its recipient] just as his death seeks him.’

(Ibn-e-Habbaan, Hadees 3227)

Remember that! Abundance in sustenance is hidden in the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If each and every person have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, seeks blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with apparent means and have piety and asceticism in her heart, performs Salah in order to have the privilege of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then it is not impossible to believe that she will have blessings in her business and sustenance.

Business and the routine of the companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم

If we have a look at the biographies of the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and their ways of living then we find piety, abstinence and seeking pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every aspect and outlook of their lives. These blessed and accepted bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would never remain heedless of Salah and the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in spite of their business activities. If they

require fulfilling any right of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then this trading would never obstruct them, they would perform it.

While describing the lives of the blessed companions, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran:

رِجَالٌۙ-لَّا تُلْهِیْهِمْ تِجَارَةٌ وَّ لَا بَیْعٌ عَنْ ذِكْرِ اللّٰهِ وَ اِقَامِ الصَّلٰوةِ وَ اِیْتَآءِ الزَّكٰوةِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Those men, whom neither any bargain nor any trade distracts from the Remembrance of Allah and from establishing the prayer and from paying the (obligatory) charity.’

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once saw that traders in the market left their goods there and went to perform Salah the moment they heard the Azan. He stated upon this action: ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed this Ayah in favour of these people.’ (Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer Abdullah Ibn-e-Mas’ood)

Dear Islamic sisters! How beautiful and enlightened was the earliest era of Islam; when the Muslims were the embodiment of piety and abstinence. These blessed people also did their trade and business but never remained heedless of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; probably, that was the reason; they had exceptional blessings in their sustenance and business; on the contrary, today, we have deviated ourselves from the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then in return we face numerous economical and financial issues instead of blessings and growth of wealth in spite of countless business resources, limitless job opportunities and extraordinary means of development and progress our life is getting from bad to worse and why shouldn’t it happen to us, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in the Holy Quran:

وَ مَنْ اَعْرَضَ عَنْ ذِكْرِیْ فَاِنَّ لَهٗ مَعِیْشَةً ضَنْكًا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: “And the one who turned away from My remembrance - for him is a confined existence.”

Allamah Syed Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَلَیهِ رَحْمَةُ اﷲِ الوَاِلی has stated in the commentary of this Ayah in Khaza’in-ul-Irfan that, “Confined existence implies that, owing to following no instruction, one falls into committing misdeeds and Haraam (forbidden) acts or due to deprivation of contentment, one falls into greed and lust and even he does not seek peace of heart despite the abundance of wealth; heart tempts to own everything and always remains sad and grievous over not possessing such and such possession and he does not have peace and tranquillity like a Momin, who just have absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which is known as “Hayat Tayyaba” (The noble life of blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said, “Whether one gets more or less, if he does not have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then there is no goodness and it is a confined existence for him”.

Dear Islamic sisters! How grave are the calamities as a result of turning away from the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . She will be in crises economically, she will indulge in Haraam (forbidden) and unlawful acts, she will be deprived of the blessing of satisfaction, dreadful fire of greed will consume her, her greed would never cease whether how much she earns, she assumes wealth to be the source of peace but she would not acquire peace of heart despite earning wealth and fame as well as she does possess soft and comfortable bed but she would not have a sound sleep. Flood of desires will sweep her patience, thankfulness and happiness and thus various types of sad times would darken her life. In short, such a person will be deprived of the wealth of peace.

Dear Islamic sisters! After listening to all these blessed Ayahs and blessed Ahadees, we ought to pledge that we shall not miss any Salah in future; we shall perform our Salah regularly even those Salah missed in the past till today, would be performed by us after seeking true repentance اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dire consequences for those who miss Salah

Dear Islamic sisters! Listen to some glimpses from dire consequence of those who miss their Salah and seek forgiveness. Remember that! The deeds of one, who misses Salah, are discarded and the loss of missing a single Salah is as if one has lost all her wealth and family. To A’ima-e-Salasa, (Imam Shaafi’i, Imam Maalik and Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم) those who miss their Salah, ruler get them killed, whereas, to Hanafi Scholars, those who miss their

Salah should be made prisoners until they repent and start offering Salah. One who does not offer Salah properly will be deprived and failed and whoever lets the Salah lapse, and then offers it after its due time, her Salah wrapped in dirty cloth, is thrown back in her face. One who misses her Salah deliberately goes out of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated about the one who misses his Salah to be an accursed; one who misses his Salah is bigger culprit than adulterer and killer; the person who misses his Salah will meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in such a state that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will incur His wrath upon him; the person who shows laziness in offering Salah, his head will be crushed repeatedly with the rock in ‘Aalam-e-Barzakh (life after death) as a result of displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The person who misses his Salah will suffer torment in the world, in grave after death, suffer torment when he would be in the state of Naz’a (at his deathbed), in the plain of resurrection. He will be disgraced and destroyed on the Day of Judgment; he will have shameful writing on his face on the Day of Judgment as an admonitory punishment. The person who misses Salah, his name is written on the door of Hell, and he will enter the Hell through this door, the person who misses his Salah deserves to be thrown into the dreadful valley of Hell, called “Ghayy”.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of performing Qada Salah

Dear Islamic sisters! Repent in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ at earliest and start performing your missed Qada Salah from just today, plus make a true intention of performing all missed Qada Salahs. What is the method of Qada Salah? For this read “Malfuzat-e-A’la Hazrat” part one, from page 70 to 71. Some attendants asked, “Worldly transactions have held us so much so that we intend to perform our Qada Salah daily but we fail. Can we first pray all our Fajr Qada, then Zuhr then any other? Is there any harm in performing them in this order? We also cannot recall how many of our Salah are Qada. What should we do in this case?

Answer: It is compulsory to perform all Qada Salahs as quickly as possible. One cannot say when death will come. There is no difficulty in performing 20 Rak’aat daily (i.e., 2 Rak’at of Fajr, 4 Rak’at of Zuhr, 4 Rak’at of Asr, 3 Rak’at of Maghrib, and 7 Rak’at for Isha, i.e., 4 Fard and 3 Witr.) One can perform all these Salah anytime of the day except at the time of sunrise, Sunset and Mid-Day (Zawaal) as Salah is not permissible at these times. One has the option to perform all the Fajr Qada first, then Zuhr, Asr, and Maghrib and Isha, or each one along with all daily Salah. A maximum estimate record of all the Qada must be made and performed accordingly. It is better to perform more than the estimated Rak’aat, but not less. If one daily performs in this manner to the extent of your strength, then all Qada will eventually be completed. So, do not delay or be lazy to complete them. No optional (Nafli) Salah is accepted if one has Qada Salah of any Fard Salah.

Intention for Qada Salah can be made in the following manner. For example, you have 100 Fajr Qada. Every time you perform one Qada, say, “I intend to perform my first Fajr Qada.” In this way you will perform them all. The same method may be used to complete all Qada Salah. If one has a lot of Qada to complete, then one must perform them quickly in this way. One may recite (سُبْحٰنَ اللہ) 3 times instead of Surah Fatihah only in the empty Rak’aat (the third and fourth Rak’aat in 4 Rak’aat Fard (i.e. Zuhr, Asr and Isha) or the third Rak’aat in 3 Rak’aat Salah (Maghrib). There is no harm if one recite one Tasbeeh سُبْحٰنَ رَبِّیَ الْعَظیم and سُبْحٰنَ رَبِّی الْاَعلٰی instead of three in the Ruku’ (bow) and Sujood (prostration). The Fard will be completed. One may recite this Salat (Durood) اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحمَّدٍ وَّاٰلِہٖ in Tashahhud instead of both Salat (Duroods). In Witr, read رَبِّ اغْفِرْلِیْ once instead of the complete Du’a-e-Qunoot.

One can perform Qada Salah 20 minutes after sunrise and 20 minutes before sunset. It is not permissible before or after these times. One must also perform these Salah in secrecy, as the exposure of sins in public is not permissible.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant all of us success to perform Salah with punctuality and swiftly carry out our remaining Salah.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about neighbour

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about neighbour.

Two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 In the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the best neighbour is the one who is a well-wisher of his neighbour. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 379, Hadees 1951)

2 The one who causes suffering to his neighbour, undoubtedly causes suffering to me, and the one who causes suffering to me, displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 241, Hadees 13)

3 It is stated in the book ‘ Nuzhat-ul-Qaari ’: Who is a neighbour? Everyone knows this matter according to his situation and norms. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 5, pp. 568)

4 Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The rights of the neighbour also include the following: One should be the first to say Salam to his neighbour; one should not have a long conversation with him; one should not excessively enquire about his affairs; one should visit him if he becomes ill; one should comfort and help him when he is in trouble; one should congratulate him on happy occasions and participate in them; one should forgive his mistakes; one should not peep into the house of his neighbour from the roof; one should not narrow the path leading to the house of his neighbour; one should not try to see whatever his neighbour takes to his house; one should cover up the faults of his neighbour; one should immediately help his neighbour if he suffers any accident or problem; one should not be careless about the safety of the house of his neighbour if he is out; one should not listen to anything against his neighbour and should lower his eyes instead of looking at his family members; one should softly talk to the children of his neighbour; one should guide his neighbour on those matters of the world or religion which he is unaware of. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 267, summarized)

5 A person came to the court of Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said, ‘My neighbour causes suffering to me, swears at me and treats me harshly.’ He said, ‘If he has disobeyed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about you, so you should obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about him.’ (Ibid, pp. 266)

6 It is narrated: On the Day of Judgement, a destitute neighbour will make a claim against his rich neighbour, ‘O my Lord! [Please] ask him why he deprived me of his kind treatment and why he closed his door for me.’ (Ibid)

7 A person reverently said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! It is mentioned that so-and-so woman offers Salah, keeps Sawm and gives charity all in abundance but there is another thing; she bothers her neighbours with her tongue.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘She is in Hell.’ They said, ‘It is

often mentioned that so-and-so woman performs (Nafl acts of worship like) Salah, Sawm and charity in small number. She gives pieces of cheese in charity and does not bother her neighbours with her tongue.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘She is in Paradise.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 441, Hadees 9681)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

