اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Consequence of Heedlessness

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who recites Salat 100 times on the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil his 100 needs; 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of this world and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel who will take the Salat to my grave in a way as you are presented gifts.

Undoubtedly, my knowledge after my (Apparent) demise will be the same as it is in my (Apparent) life.

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود ان پہ سدا میں

اور ذکر کا بھی شوق پئے غوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

٭ Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

٭ Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

٭ I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

٭ If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

٭ When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

٭ After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Consequence of Heedlessness

Dear Islamic brothers! Muhammad bin Ghassan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Qazi of Kufa, has said: On the day of Eid-ul-Azha, I went to my mother where I saw an old woman, wearing old, torn and worn-out clothes. I liked her style of conversation. I asked my mother about the woman. She said: “She is your aunt ‘Aaniya, the mother of the minister of Haroon Rasheed, Jaffar bin Yahya Barmaki”. I said Salam to her and in return she replied to my Salam. I inquired after her and asked about her present condition. She replied: O son, I spent my life heedlessly and remained busy wasting time. The time has gone far away from me. I said: Describe any event of your glorious time. She started saying: Why not. I am relating a short event by which you may judge my glory and dignity. Three years ago, on the occasion of Eid-ul-Azha, I had four hundred Scarves. As a part of custom, my son sent me the heads of 1400 billy goats and 300 oxen. In addition, there were also jewellery, dresses, etc. Despite this, I thought that my son was disobedient and today my state is such that I have come to you to get the skins of two billy goats so that I can prepare my dress from them. Qazi Sahib said: After hearing her story of downfall I grew very sad and started weeping. That time whatever Dinars I had, I gave her as a gift.

(Bahr-u-Dumu’, pp. 105)

نہیں درکار وہ خوشیاں، جو غفلت کا بنیں ساماں

عطا کر اپنی اُلفت اپنے پیارے کا تُو غم مولیٰ

(وسائلِ بخشش مُرمّم،ص99)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Causes of heedlessness

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely the person who loves worldly blessings, falls prey to heedlessness of the Hereafter. Heedlessness makes a person bold on committing sins. Heedlessness prevents a person from performing virtuous deeds. Heedlessness incurs the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed countless blessings upon us in the world. Good business and job are the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Splendid house with many facilities are a blessing. A nice conveyance is also a great blessing. For parents, children are also a blessing, but remember! Becoming occupied with any worldly blessing more than the need causes heedlessness and harm.

In Ayah 9 of Surah Al-Munafiqoon, part 28 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا لَا تُلْهِكُمْ اَمْوَالُكُمْ وَ لَاۤ اَوْلَادُكُمْ عَنْ ذِكْرِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ مَنْ یَّفْعَلْ ذٰلِكَ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْخٰسِرُوْنَ(۹)

‘O people who believe! May not your wealth or your children cause you to neglect the remembrance of Allah; and whoever does this–so it is they who are in a loss.’ (Kanz-ul-Īman [Translation of Quran]) (Surah-e-Munafiqun, Ayah 9, juz 28)

In this blessed Ayah, believers [Muslims] are being advised: O believers! Like hypocrites your wealth and children might make you heedless of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the one who does something like this, that is, forgets his religion after being occupied with the world, does not care for his present after falling in love with wealth and remains heedless of the Hereafter comfort for the happiness of his children, will suffer a loss because such people do not care for the eternal blessings of the Hereafter for the sake of the mortal world. (Khazin, AL-Muafiqun, Taht-al-Ayah. 9, vol. 4, pp. 274, Madarik, pp. 1245)

Alas! Alas! Today the practical condition of Muslims is getting bad to worse. Being engrossed in getting abundant wealth and for the sake of getting fortune we travel different countries, but avoid going to the Masjid that is very near to our home. We spend much money on the decoration of our home, but avoid spending in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, even some people do not

pay their Zakat despite it being Fard for them. We adopt different techniques in order to increase wealth, but become lazy in the matter of blessing in virtuous deeds.

Remember! We still have time, therefore we should wake up to the fact and repent immediately lest the death carries us away from our lavishly decorated room to a dark grave, infested with insects and then we will plead: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Send me back to the world. I will worship You abundantly, spend my entire wealth in Your path and offer all five Salah with Jama’at in the first row with first Takbeer in the Masjid. Remember! At that time, these pleadings will bring no benefit because the Holy Quran has already warned us about it. In Ayah 10 & 11 of Surah-e-Munafiqun, Part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اَنْفِقُوْا مِنْ مَّا رَزَقْنٰكُمْ مِّنْ قَبْلِ اَنْ یَّاْتِیَ اَحَدَكُمُ الْمَوْتُ فَیَقُوْلَ رَبِّ لَوْ لَاۤ اَخَّرْتَنِیْۤ اِلٰۤى اَجَلٍ قَرِیْبٍۙ-فَاَصَّدَّقَ وَ اَكُنْ مِّنَ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ(۱۰) وَ لَنْ یُّؤَخِّرَ اللّٰهُ نَفْسًا اِذَا جَآءَ اَجَلُهَاؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ خَبِیْرٌۢ بِمَا تَعْمَلُوْنَ۠(۱۱)

“And spend from what We have provided you before death approaches any one of you and he then says, “My Rab! Why did you not give me respite for a little while, so that I could give charity and become amongst the virtuous?” And Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will never give respite to any soul when its promise arrives; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is aware of your deeds.’

(Kanz-ul-Iman [Translation of Quran]) (Surah-e-Munafiqun, Ayah 10-11, juz 28)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that a person wakes up to the fact at the time of death. At that time he feels greatly sad. He wishes he could have got some more respite (time) and performed some virtuous deeds. He wishes he had not spent his life heedlessly. He wishes he could have made his Lord happy, but he will get no benefit for his regret that time. Therefore wise is he who not being heedless performs a great many virtuous deeds in his lifetime and enters his grave with the Madani luminosity of Sunnah to brighten up his grave. Otherwise, in case of displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

and His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he will get nothing but regret and wistfulness.

Could not get time even for distributing wealth

On page 389 of a 417-page book, ‘Summary of Ihya-ul-Uloom’, published by the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba tul Madinah, it is stated: Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Bin Abdullah Muzni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A person from Bani Israel accumulated wealth. When the time of his death came he said to his sons: Show me my different possessions. Many horses, camels and slaves were brought to him. He looked at them and started weeping wistfully. When Malak-ul-Maut عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم saw him weeping he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم said: Why are you weeping? By the One Who has given you all this! I will not leave until I separate your soul from your body. He said: Give me some respite (time) so that I can distribute this wealth. The angel replied: Now you will get no respite (time). Why didn’t you do this work before your death? Malak-ul-Maut عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم then seized his soul.

بے وفا دُنیا پہ مَت کر اِعتبار تُو اَچانَک مَوْت کا ہوگا شِکار

مَوْت آکر ہی رہے گی یاد رَکھ! جان جا کر ہی رہے گی یاد رَکھ!

تیری طاقت تیرا فَن عُہدہ تِرا کچھ نہ کام آئے گا سَرمایہ تِرا

کرلے تَوْبَہ رَبّ کی رَحْمت ہے بڑی قَبْر میں ورنہ سَزا ہوگی کڑی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Strange regret:

Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu ‘Ali Daqqaq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A great pious saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very ill, so I went to inquire after him. I saw his students sitting around him. The pious saint was weeping. I humbly asked, ‘O Shaykh! Are you weeping for the world ?’ He replied in the negative and said: I am weeping for missing Salah.’ I asked, ‘You used to worship abundantly then how did you miss your Salah?’ He replied, ‘Whenever I performed Sajdah, I was heedless and

whenever I lifted my head from Sajdah, I was heedless, and now I am dying in the state of heedlessness.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 22)

Merely claim is useless

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ did not use to give importance to their worship and spiritual exercises despite spending every moment in remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and being busy in pondering over the Hereafter. Fearing the Self-reliance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ they would shed tears, but we are so heedless that first of all, we do not perform any good deeds and if we have performed a good deed, we do not get relaxed unless we mention it to many people and get their praises. Pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ always tremble with His fear and weep, but we, heedless people, do not have any fear despite committing sins fearlessly day and night. We talk as if there is no one like us. Making us wake up to the fact, Sayyiduna Shaqeeq Balkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: People say three things only verbally, but they practise against them: (1) They say that they are the bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but their deeds are not like the deeds of slaves, but rather they do like the free people as per their will. (2) They say that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ provides them sustenance, but their hearts are not satisfied without accumulating the world and the possessions of the world and it is totally contrary to their acknowledgement. (3) They say that finally they have to die, but they act in a way as if they would never die. (Mukashafat-ul-Quloob, pp. 45)

ہے یہاں سے تجھ کو جانا ایک دن قبر میں ہوگا ٹھکانا ایک دن

منہ خدا کو ہے دِکھانا ایک دن اب نہ غفلت میں گنوانا ایک دن

ایک دن مرنا ہے آخر موت ہے کر لے جو کرنا ہے آخر موت ہے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we are in such a state that we make great efforts to earn the world, but we are heedless of pondering over the Hereafter. We have golden dreams to become rich day and night. We try to go around in nice cars and always follow new fashions, but we forget that

one day we will have to die and we have to leave this world empty-handed. However, none of us knows when we will die; whether today will be our last day or tonight will be the last night of our life, instead we have no guarantee that whether we will be able to take another breath or not. It may be possible that the breath we are taking is the last one and we will not be able to take the second breath. Very frequently we hear this news that so and so was absolutely alright, he had apparently no disease, but suddenly he departed this life within few moments due to a heart failure. Let’s listen to two admonitory parables in order to wake up to the fact and start performing virtuous deeds after repenting of sins.

(1) Drowned in flood

It has been narrated: A person had constructed his home in an area having flood hazards. When he was asked: It is a very dangerous place; abandon it. He replied: I know it that it is a dangerous place, but the beauty and greenness of this place have greatly surprised me. He was asked: All the beauty and elegance are with the life, therefore save your life and do not put yourself in danger. He said: I will not abandon this place at all costs. Then one night while he was sleeping, a flood came and he drowned in it and died. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 446)

(2) Desire of marriage was ruined:

An intelligent student of final year studying at a medical college of Sardarabad (Faisalabad) went on picnic with his friend. Reaching the picnic point his friend went to the stream to swim, but he started drowning. The doctor of future emotionally jumped into the water in order to save him. He did not know how to swim, and hence got into trouble. Fortunately, his friend succeeded in getting out, but the doctor of future drowned. Lamentation began; the only hope of parents’ old age became a victim of water. The golden dreams of parents could not come true. The miserable intelligent student had entered his grave before the result of MBBS Final examination was announced.

ملے خاک میں اہلِ شاں کیسے کیسے مکیں ہو گئے لا مکاں کیسے کیسے

ہوئے نامور بے نشان کیسے کیسے زمین کھا گئی نوجوان کیسے کیسے

جگہ جی لگانے کی دنیا نہیں ہے یہ عبرت کی جا ہے تماشا نہیں ہے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Wake up to the fact and ponder over the Hereafter and prepare for the death before the death. If we remain busy with the elegance and beauty of the world like this and die suddenly after suffering from any deadly disease, becoming the victim of any accident or if our breaths stop all of a sudden, so there will be nothing but regret. Dispel this misconception from your heart and mind that now I am very young; I am very healthy; now I have a long life to live; I will perform virtuous deeds in the last stage of my life.

Remember! Death does not come only in the old age or during illness, but even healthy and cheerful young men also meet sudden death and are buried in the dark grave. The status of this world is like a passage that we have to travel in order to reach our destination. Now the destination will be either Paradise or Hell! It depends on how we travelled! Do we travel it by obeying or disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Condemnable are the acts of such a person who despite seeing the colourfulness of this world remains deceived by it and becomes totally heedless of his death.

World is mortal and Hereafter is immortal

The last sermon of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also contains: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed this world upon you so that you prepare only for the Hereafter through it. He has not bestowed it so that you only get busy with it. Undoubtedly, the world is mortal and the Hereafter is immortal. [I fear that] this mortal (world) might deceive you into making heedless (of the Hereafter). Do not prefer the mortal world to the immortal Hereafter because the world is going to end and undoubtedly we have to get back to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is a shield

against His torment and a source to reach Him. (Musu’at Ibn Abi Dunya, vol. 5, pp. 83, Hadees 146)

چند روزہ ہے یہ دُنیا کی بَہار دِل لَگا اِس سے نہ غافِل ذِی نَہار

عُمْر اپنی یُوں نہ غفلت میں گُزار ہوشِیَار اے مَحْوِ غفلت ہوشِیَار

ایک دِن مَرْنا ہے آخِر مَوْت ہے کرلے جو کرنا ہے آخِر مَوْت ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! Every moment of our life is very precious and our life is very rapidly decreasing. Therefore instead of being deceived by this mortal world and giving no importance to the moments which are more precious than gold and jewellery, become pious by acting wisely. Do not waste your days and nights in useless activities and worldly luxuries. Do not become lazy in performing the acts for which Shari’at has commanded us and do not delay even for a moment in refraining from the acts from which Shari’at has prohibited us. We have been commanded in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees to offer Salah, but we do not offer Salah due to our heedlessness though Salah is an extremely important Fard (obligatory) act amongst the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Salah is the pillar of Islam. Sins are forgiven through Salah. Salah protects us from diseases. Salah is a source through which Du’as are answered. The name of the person who deliberately misses Salah is written on the door of the Hell.

Shari’at has commanded us to give Zakat of our wealth only once a year if we own the Nisaab. We are busy making money only, but are heedless of fulfilling its rights though blessing in wealth is attained by giving Zakat. There is peace at home by giving Zakat. The one who gives Zakat is blessed with Divine mercy. Giving Zakat removes troubles as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes evil from the person who gives Zakat of his wealth. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 431, Hadees 1579)

Shari’at has commanded us to observe Siyam of Ramadan once a year, but we act heedlessly and not only do we miss Sawm, but we also eat and drink in public shamelessly. Remember! Observing Sawm is not only obedience to

Shari’at, but it also brings many medical benefits. For example, by observing Sawm one can recover from stomach problems and its illnesses and his digestive system gets better. Sawm moderates the level of sugar, cholesterol and blood pressure and due to it there is no risk of a heart attack. During Sawm the quantity of blood decreases and that is why heart gets extremely beneficial rest. Sawm terminates physical strain, mental stress, depression and psychological diseases. Sawm reduces obesity and burns extra fat. By observing Sawm childless women’s chances of becoming mother increases manifold. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 293)

It will be very useful to study ‘Faizan-e-Ramadan’ (modified), an excellent book written by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ to get information about the detailed rulings and virtues of Sawm. Further, study “Jannat mey ley janey waley aamaal” (Deeds leading to Paradise) in order to know about the virtues of the acts for which Shari’at has commanded us to perform and study “Jahanam mey ley janey waley aamaal” (Deeds leading to Hell) to know about the destruction of the acts for which Shariyyat has commanded us to avoid.

مُختْصَر سی زِنْدَگی ہے بھائیو! نیکیاں کیجئے نہ غفلت کیجئے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Dorah’ (Madani Visit) one of the 12 Madani Activities:

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only should we spend our life in obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but in order to develop Fikr-e-Aakhirat in other Islamic brothers we should also associate them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Further, we should also take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah in order to propagate the call towards righteousness. One of 12 Madani activities is ‘Madani Dorah’ through which people are presented the call towards righteousness at homes and shops (business places). Presenting the call towards righteousness is such an important and obligatory act that all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ

وَسَلَّم were sent to this world for this purpose. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this Madani activity has countless religious and worldly benefits.

By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani Dorah’ the beautiful Sunnah of presenting call towards righteousness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is practised. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani Dorah’ the Sunnahs of meeting and greeting Muslims are propagated. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani Dorah’ precious Madani pearls, which are full of Islamic knowledge and call to righteousness, are conveyed to Muslim Ummah. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani Dorah’ great help is obtained to make Muslims Salah-offering, who do not offer Salah. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Madani Dorah’ the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is highly publicized. Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ makes Du’a as follows for the Islamic brothers who attend ‘Madani Dorah’.

جو نیکی کی دعوت کی دُھومیں مچائے

میں دیتا ہوں اُس کو دعائے مدینہ

(وسائل بخشش مرمم،ص ۳۶۹)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of a ‘Madani Dorah’ for persuasion and make intention to do ‘Madani Dorah’ regularly.

Masjid filled with Salah-offering Muslims:

An Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) has stated: Our Madani Qafilah reached a Masjid in the city of Punjab. On the door was a padlock. After trying hard we got the key of the padlock. When we opened the door, we saw that everything was covered with dust. It seemed as if the Masjid had been closed for many years. We together cleaned the Masjid, offered ‘Asr Salah and then reached a playground for a ‘Madani Dorah’ and presented the call towards righteousness to the young boys, who were busy playing games. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, many young boys immediately got ready to accompany us. They were privileged to offer Salah and listen to the Sunnah-inspiring speech with us. Due to our individual efforts they intended to populate the Masjid and offer Salah regularly. Having seen this scene, a 70-year old pious man, who

was there, started weeping and said: I used to say people to come to the Masjid to offer Salah regularly, but nobody listened to me. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today by virtue of the blessing of devotees of Rasool, people have started to come to this Masjid to offer Salah.

نہ نیکی کی دعوت میں سُستی ہو مجھ سے

بنا شائقِ قافِلہ یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Gold Brick

It is narrated: A pious person once found a gold brick. Out of the love of wealth, he spent his entire night in making different plans, thinking of delicious foods, fine clothing, having a number of servants to serve him. In short, due to becoming rich he was lost in the fantasy of comforts and luxuries and became totally heedless of his Lord that night. The next morning driven by the same desire he left home. By chance, he passed by a grave yard. What he saw was that a man was kneading clay on a grave for making bricks. Seeing this scene immediately he woke up to the fact and started weeping by imagining, ‘ Perhaps people will make bricks from the earth of my grave as well after my death. Alas! My splendid houses and fine clothes etc., will become useless. So falling in love with gold brick means to spend life heedlessly! If I have to fall in love, I have to fall in love with my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He left the gold brick and adopted contentment. (Booklet Ghaflat, pp. 1)

گو پیشِ نظر قبر کا پُرھول گڑھا ہے

افسوس! مگر پھر بھی یہ غفلت نہیں جاتی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely wealth is such a thing that makes a person heedless of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This parable contains admonitory lessons for those who are always greedy for wealth, forget to differentiate between Halal and Haram wealth while satisfying the burning desire to accumulate wealth and find peace of life only in wealth.

Remember! Medicines can be bought by wealth, but not cure. With wealth, you can find friends but not loyalty. One can live a good life through wealth, but cannot avoid death. Fame can be achieved by wealth, but not respect. Good houses, vehicles and nice clothes can be bought by wealth, but one cannot become deserving of the intercession of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by using them for the wrong purpose.

Remember! Our wealth may be useful to make every difficult work easy in the world, but will the same wealth help us if we are tormented in the grave due to our bad deeds? If we do not answer to the questions of Munkar Nakir, so will we get benefit from our wealth that time? If snakes and scorpions attack us in the grave, so will our wealth bring us salvation from them? Will our wealth bring comfort and peace for us in the terrors of the Judgement Day? Will our wealth be useful in helping us to get rid of the Hell? Of course not, not at all, but rather the virtuous deeds for which we are heedless today, will become the source of salvation from the difficult situations.

How should I be happy?

Sayyiduna ‘Aun Bin Abdullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Alas! How heedless am I though there will be no negligence at all in my accountability? How can my life be pleasant though a very tough day is ahead of me? Why don’t I become active in performing deeds though I do not know when I will die? How should I be happy in the world though I do not have to live here forever? Why should I prefer it though before me the world harmed the one who preferred it? Why should I like it though it will perish? Why should I be greedy for it as my abode is somewhere else? Why should I feel sad for it (loss of this world) because by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I do not know how I will be treated due to my sins. (Hilyat-ul-Auliya, vol. 4, pp. 285, Raqm 5593)

Ways of avoiding heedlessness

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our pious predecessors would always keep themselves busy pondering over the Hereafter to protect themselves from heedlessness and greed. Following in their footsteps we should also start preparing for the grave and the Judgment Day in our life. In order to get rid of the disease like heedlessness we should get it cured because a treatment method is adopted in order to stay safe from every disease and one can recover from the disease by treating it. Let’s listen to a few methods of protecting ourselves from a deadly disease like heedlessness and try to make our Hereafter better.

(1) Avoid worldly love!

At present, a very important reason for not performing virtuous deeds and becoming heedless is the love of this world, which causes a person to stop performing virtuous deeds by making him forget to differentiate between Halal and Haram. Therefore dispel worldly love from your heart because it is the root of all evils. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who is made to drink the beverage of worldly love will definitely have to taste three things: (1) Such a hardness due to which his tiredness will not go away. (2) Such a greed due to which he will not be free from want. (3) Such a desire that he will not be able to fulfil. So the Hereafter will keep on looking for the one who seeks the world, until he dies. When he dies, it (Hereafter) will grasp him and the world will keep on finding the one who seeks the Hereafter, until he gets his entire sustenance from it. (Tabarani Kabeer, Abdullah Bin Mas’ood, vol. 10, pp. 162, Raqm 10328)

مرے دل سے دنیا کی چاہت مٹاکر

کر الفت میں اپنی فنا یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

(2) Have good company!

Have the company of pious people in order to get rid of the life of heedlessness, as by virtue of its blessing we will be able to protect ourselves

from sins and perform virtuous deeds. At present, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is not less than a great blessing for attaining good company. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment until now, hundreds of thousands of Muslims have started performing virtuous deeds after giving up their sinful lives. Do protect yourself from bad company because bad company not only may ruin our world, but it may also ruin our Hereafter. We have been commanded to avoid the company of bad people in the blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it and try to act upon them.

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Avoid bad companion because he is a piece of Hell; his love will not benefit you and he will not keep his promise to you. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbaar, vol. 1, pp. 224, Hadees 1573)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Avoid bad companion because you will be recognized with him. (i.e. A man is known by the company he keeps) (Ibn ‘Asakar, vol. 14, pp. 46)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

(3) Study the life of pious predecessors!

Another way of getting rid of heedlessness and sinful life, performing virtuous deeds regularly, living life according to the Holy Quran and Sunnah is to study the blessed life of pious predecessors and to act according to their blessed life and character because our pious predecessors would remain busy all the time worshiping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and pondering over the Hereafter. Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a personage, who is a practising Islamic scholar and a Sufi. When we study regarding his knowledge, practice, character and blessed life, we attain the privilege to ponder over the Hereafter after avoiding heedlessness. Every moment of his life was spent in remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and pondering over the Hereafter. He has had such great achievements through his scholarly interest and ability that even today the Islamic world is benefiting from his teachings. Through his blessed life, Muslim Ummah develops the passion for obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, performing Sunnah regularly, adopting piety and many other righteous habits. For

attaining blessing and mercy, let’s listen to some brief spheres of his blessed life.

Name and lineage, birth and death

The Kunniyyat of Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is Abu Hamid, title Hujjat-ul-Islam (proof of Islam) and blessed name Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali Shafa’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He was born in Taabiran in District Tus (Iran) in 450 H. (Ittihaf-us-Sadaat-ul-Muttaqeen, vol. 1, pp. 9). He received his early education in his city. He studied books of Fiqh from Sayyiduna Ahmad Raazkani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he was below 20, he went to Jurjaan (the eastern city of Iran) to acquire further knowledge. In 473 H, he went to Imam-ul-Haramayn, Imam Abdul Malik Juweni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Neeshapur (an old city of Iran) where he gained complete expertise in Usool-e-Deen (Principles of Islam), logic and wisdom etc. (Ittihaf-us-Sadaat-ul-Muttaqeen, vol. 1, pp. 9). Every book of Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a precious treasure of knowledge, but Ihya-ul-Uloom is a matchless book. This book is very helpful in making human ‘a perfect human’. It has been the centre of attention of Masha’ikh and Aarifeen, Aqtaab and pious saints, Islamic scholars and Sufiya in every age. Finally, Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه departed this mortal world on 14 Jumad-al-Aakhir, 505 H, Monday in Taabiran (Tus) and his blessed shrine is situated there.

Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ started Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami [a Madani Movement of devotees of Rasool], in 1986 to convey the teachings of these great personages to Muslim Ummah. First of all, audio cassettes of speeches were released by this department of Dawat-e-Islami and then by the Grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and by the blessings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم it achieved progress by leaps and bounds. Now not only hundreds of thousands of cassettes and VCDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs are reaching all over the world through Maktaba-tul-Madinah, but at the same time a large number of the

Urdu translation of the books of Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the books of A’la Hadrat, the books of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat and Al-Madinah-tul-‘Ilmiyyah are also being published and made public.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima, we have heard about heedlessness.

٭ Due to heedlessness a person does not gain Islamic knowledge.

٭ Due to heedlessness a person forgets his Hereafter.

٭ Due to heedlessness a person starts committing sins.

٭ Due to heedlessness a person falls into a deep pit of Hell.

٭ Due to heedlessness a person does not remember and obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

٭ Due to heedlessness a person becomes greedy all the time for earning money and accumulating wealth.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to perform virtuous deeds and protect ourselves from heedlessness!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Wearing shoes: 7 Madani pearls

٭ A saying of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Wear shoes sufficiently, because it is as if one is on a ride (that is, he does not tire much) as long as he is wearing shoes.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1161, Hadees 2096)

٭ Clean out the shoes before wearing them so that insects or stones, if any, are removed.

٭ First put on the right shoe then the left. When taking them off, take off the left one first then the right.

٭ Men should wear men’s shoes and women should wear women’s shoes.

٭ A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Women should not wear men’s shoes. Furthermore, all those things which differentiate the two genders are not allowed for the opposite, whether it is the action or appearance. Neither should men adopt feminine styles nor should women adopt masculine styles.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 65, vol. 16)

٭ When you sit down take off the shoes as this gives comfort to the feet.

٭ One of the causes of poverty is to leave the shoe lying upside down when found like that. If you see a used shoe upside down, put it upright.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

