اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Mi’raaj Journey and Ghayb-knowledge of Mustafa صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ حَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَيَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَكُمْ تَبْلُغُنِيْ ’ i.e. Wherever you are, recite Durood upon me because your Durood reaches me. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Raqm, 2729)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s make good intentions for attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and earning rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللہ, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege of listening to a faith-refreshing parable of Mi’raaj in order to attain the blessing from the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Brief parable of Mi’raaj

On page 13 to 22 of Faizan-e-Mi’raaj, a book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing house of Dawat-e-Islami, it has been written: It was the beautiful and luminous night of Monday, two years before Hijrah, on the

eleventh year of Prophethood, on 27 th Rajab-ul-Murajjab. [1] And, after offering ‘Isha Salah the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was resting at the home of Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Haani رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, his cousin. [2] The blessed roof of the blessed home opened, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came and brought the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the home of Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Haani رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to Masjid-ul-Haraam and made him lie at the Hateem of the Ka’bah. (Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 7, pp. 256, Taht-al-Hadees 3887)

Expanding the chest

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was lying on his side in the Hateem of the Ka’bah and still feeling drowsy [3], Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came. This time he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام split the blessed chest from the collarbone to the body-part below the blessed belly and took out the blessed heart. Then a golden tray full of Iman and Hikmah [faith and wisdom] was brought. Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام washed the blessed heart with Zamzam water and then filled it with Iman and Hikmah and then kept it at its place. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 976, Hadees 3887)

Ride on Buraaq

Afterwards, a white animal bigger than a donkey and smaller than a mule, called Buraaq was brought to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for riding on. [4] It was already saddled and bridled. [5] Its speed was so amazing that it would put its step as far as the eye could see. [6] When climbing to a height, its front legs would become short and its back legs would become long; and when climbing down, its front legs would become long and back legs would become short. For this reason, in both cases, its back would remain even [7] and the blessed rider would face no trouble. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 75)

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم intended to get on it and went near it, it started jumping with delight. Having seen this, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام placed his hand on its mane [hair of its neck] and said: O Buraaq! Do you not feel shy? By Allah Almighty! No personage having more respect and miracles than the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has ever ridden on you. Having heard this, Buraaq felt ashamed, dripping with sweat. It stopped jumping and became calm. (Seerat-un-Nabawiyyah li Ibn Hishaam, vol. 2, pp. 35)

Departed for Bayt-ul-Muqaddas

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then got on the Buraaq and departed for Bayt-ul-Muqaddas with tremendous glory. Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Boosayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

سَرَیْتَ مِنْ حَرَمٍ لَیْلًا اِلٰی حَرَمٍ کَمَا سَرَی الْبَدْرُ فِیْ دَاجٍ مِّنَ الظُّلُمِ

(Qaseeda-tul-Burdah, pp. 237)

i.e. he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم travelled to Haram-e-Bayt-il-Maqdis [ بَیْتِ الْمَقْدِس ] from Haram-e-Ka’bah in a glorious way like the full moon that passes, spreading light in the very dark night.

During this luminous journey, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the chief of angels, was also accompanying him. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 976, Hadees 3887)

Salah was offered at three places

During the journey, at one place, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to offer Salah after getting off. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah. Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: Do you know at which place you have offered Salah? You have offered Salah in Taybah (i.e. sacred Madinah). Migration will take place towards it. At another place, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to offer Salah after getting off. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah. Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: Do you know at which place you have offered Salah? You have offered Salah at Toor-e-Seena where Allah Almighty blessed Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with Kalam. At

another place, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to offer Salah after getting off. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah. Then Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: Do you know at which place you have offered Salah? You have offered Salah at Bayt-e-Lahm [ بَیْتِ لَحْم ] where Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born. (Sunan Nasa`ee, pp. 81, Hadees 448)

Some observations during journey to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas

Observing the wonders of Divine power, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was going to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. On the way, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw an old woman standing. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: Who is she? He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly replied: Your Highness! Please continue to move forward. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم moved forward, then someone called him out and said: ‘ ہَلُمَّ یَا مُحَمَّد ’ O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Come here. But Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said the same: Your Highness! Please continue to move. Without stopping, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم moved forward and then saw a group. Humbly saying Salam to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم they said: ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ یَا اَوَّلُ، اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ یَا آخِرُ، اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ یَا حَاشِرُ ’ i.e. O the first (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Peace be upon you; O the last (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Peace be upon you. O Haashir (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Peace be upon you. Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: Your Highness! Please give reply to their Salam. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied to their Salam. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then passed by another group. The same happened there and then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by the third group and the same thing happened.

Later on, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: The old woman you saw while she was standing at a corner of the path was the world. Only as much part of its life is left as that of this old woman is left. The one who wanted to attract you was Iblees (Satan) the enemy of Allah Almighty. He wanted you to get interested in him. And, those who humbly said Salam to you were Sayyiduna Ibraheem, Sayyiduna Musa and Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 2, pp. 362)

Sayyiduna Musa in Salah

It is stated in Sahih Muslim: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by the blessed grave of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that is located near the red mound of sand, he [i.e. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ] was offering Salah, standing in his grave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 927, Hadees 2375)

Arrival in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas

Observing the wonders of Divine powers and meeting blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached the sacred city in which Masjid-ul-Aqsa is situated. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered the city through its Bab-e-Yamani and then moved towards the Masjid. [1] He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم tied the Buraaq to that ring of the door of the Masjid to which blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام would tie their animals for riding. Later on, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام took Buraaq to the [premises] of the Masjid. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a hole into a stone through his finger and then tied the Buraaq to it. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 103)

Leading Salah offered by blessed Ambiya

In order to show the eminence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام were gathered in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. [2] When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went there, seeing him all these blessed personages welcomed him. At the time of Salah, they all requested him to lead the Salah. Then holding his blessed hand, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام brought him ahead. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led the Salah offered by all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 65, Hadees 3879; Seerah Halbiyah, vol. 1, pp. 525)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Boosayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

وَقَدَّمَتْکَ جَمِیْعُ الْاَنْبِیَاءِ بِہَا وَالرُّسُلِ تَقْدِیْمَ مَخْدُوْمٍ عَلٰی خَدَمِ

(Qaseeda-tul-Burdah, pp. 240)

i.e. as a master is ahead of his servants, all blessed Ambiya and Rusul in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas requested the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be ahead of them.

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه! What a beautiful Salah! All the Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام are Muqtadis, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the Imam and the first Qiblah is the place of Salah. Indeed, no such Salah was offered in the universe before; the sky never saw such a beautiful scene. Anyhow, today the secret of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم being the first and the last has also been revealed and the meaning has become as clear as the day because today the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who is the last Nabi, is leading the Salah of the previous Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . Mentioning the same secret A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

نمازِ اقصٰی میں تھا یہی سِرّ، عِیاں ہوں معنی اوّل آخِر

کہ دَست بستہ ہیں پیچھے حاضِر، جو سلطنت آگے کر گئے تھے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Meetings with blessed Ambiya

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went out of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام presented two bowls—one of wine and another of milk. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم picked up the bowl of milk. Having seen this, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: You have chosen nature. If you had picked up the bowl of wine, your Ummah would have gone astray. Then Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام took the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to the sky. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the first sky, Sayyiduna Yahya and Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِمَا الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام in the second sky and also had some conversation with them. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the third sky, Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the fourth sky and Sayyiduna Haroon عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the fifth sky. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the sixth sky and as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached the seventh sky he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who was sitting with his

back against Bayt-ul-Ma’moor (Qiblah of angels) where 70,000 angels enter every day. Every Nabi welcomed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by saying ‘Welcome! O righteous Rasool’. Then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made to do a tour of Paradise. After this, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Sidra-tul-Muntaha. When the rain of Divine Noor fell on this tree, its shape instantly changed and then the Noor in such colourful lights appeared, which cannot be described in words. When Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام reached here, he stopped and said: Now I cannot move ahead further.

Then Allah Almighty blessed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after calling him to ‘Arsh, but rather above ‘Arsh to the place where Allah Almighty wanted him to reach. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 733-734)

It has been stated in the Holy Quran in these words: In Ayah 8 and 9 of Surah An-Najm, part 27 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

ثُمَّ دَنَا فَتَدَلّٰىۙ(۸) فَكَانَ قَابَ قَوْسَیْنِ اَوْ اَدْنٰىۚ(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then the Spectacle became closer, and came down in full view. So the distance between the Spectacle and the beloved was only two arms’ length, or even less.

Afterwards what happened there is beyond our intellect. Having beheld Allah Almighty, made a wonderful tour and seen clear signs from Allah Almighty, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came back to the earth and entered Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and mounted Buraaq to set out for Makkah Mukarramah. On the way, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw all the stopovers from Bayt-ul-Muqaddas to Makkah and the caravans of traders of Quraysh. After passing through all these stages, when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Masjid-ul-Haraam, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم slept because much part of the night was still left. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 735; summarised)

خدا کی قُدرت کہ چاند حق کے، کروڑوں منزل میں جلوہ کرکے

ابھی نہ تاروں کی چھاؤں بدلی، کہ نُور کے تڑکے آ لیے تھے

Explanation of couplet of Raza: Just notice the glory of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came back in a very short period of time after visiting billions of places; the stars were still shining in the same way and even their shadows did not change. (Sharh Kalam-e-Raza, pp. 696)

الله کی عنایت مرحبا معراج کی عظمت مرحبا

بُراق کی قسمت مرحبا بُراق کی سُرعَت مرحبا

اَقصٰی کی شوکت مرحبا نبیوں کی اِمامت مرحبا

آقا کی رِفعت مرحبا آسماں کی سِیاحت مرحبا

مکینِ لا مکاں کی عظمت مرحبا

چشمانِ نبوت مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم related the parable of Mi’raaj [the Ascension] to the Quraysh, they were quite astonished and started asking questions in order to test him so that they could prove him a liar, مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه .

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The questions were also useless. For instance, how many pillars does Bayt-ul-Muqaddas have? How many stairs are there? Where is the Mimber [pulpit] located? Obviously, these things cannot be remembered even if one sees them again and again; so how can a person remember if he sees only once. A few people from Quraysh said: We do not know about ‘Arsh and Kursi which you are talking about, but we have seen Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. Tell us the signs of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. [1] (So when the things related to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas were asked), the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became a little uncertain because he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did enter Bayt-ul-Muqaddas but did not observe the things in it minutely. Furthermore, it was a very dark night.

On that occasion, Allah Almighty commanded Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to lift Bayt-ul-Muqaddas on his wings and place it in Makkah Mukarramah near the house of Sayyiduna ‘Aqeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did so. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would answer to their questions after seeing it. (Remember that) Lifting Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and bringing it to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the miracle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Throne of Bilqees (was also brought to the court of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام after being lifted) and it was the miracle of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . (Seerat Sayyid-ul-Ambiya, pp. 131)

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard how elevated and great is the glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Allah Almighty blessed him with the ride of the Heavenly-Buraaq in order to show him great Divine signs in the shortest period of time on the 27 th night of Rajab-ul-Murajjab. Allah Almighty called His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to Masjid-ul-Aqsa from Masjid-ul-Haraam and from there to all the skies and showed the glory and excellence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to different Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and angels. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given the gift of Salahs and above all, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ was blessed with beholding Allah Almighty and Allah Almighty also had Kalam with His Beloved directly.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to a blessed Hadees that tells us about the privilege our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had of beholding Allah Almighty and having Kalam with Him.

I recognized everything

Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I saw my Rab. He kept His Dast-e-Qudrat between my shoulders; I felt its coolness in my chest; at the same time everything became bright for me and I recognized everything. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 160, Hadees 3246)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I saw my Rab in my best appearance. (i.e., that time my appearance was very good, as it is said that I met the ruler in a good dress, that is, I was wearing a good dress at the time of meeting, otherwise, Allah Almighty is free of Soorat [appearance]. Remember, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to us in Bashari (human) form and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in Noori form. A person wears a different dress at home and a different dress in the court and (in above mentioned Hadees) it is perhaps the Zikr of Mi’raaj event. Some have said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Allah Almighty in his dream, but the first one is very much true. For this reason, Deedar-e-Ilahi [the act of beholding Allah Almighty] has been proven. The factual truth is that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Allah Almighty with his own blessed eyes. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said that Allah Almighty asked (me): Over what thing do Muqarrab (high-ranking) angels quarrel? (i.e. what are the deeds angels quarrel over regarding taking and presenting them to Allah Almighty - one says I will take it the other one says I will do so.) I humbly said: O Allah Almighty! You only know it. Then Allah Almighty placed His Dast-e-Qudrat between my both shoulders, the coolness of which I felt into my chest, so whatever is in the skies and beneath the earth I have known all of them.) (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 2, pp. 170; Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 446)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This Hadees is the clear evidence of the vast knowledge of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty blessed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the knowledge of all seven skies, rather all the things above the skies and all seven earths and even each and every particle and drop beneath them.

Remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed His Beloved with the knowledge of everything —the past, present and future—things which will happen until the Judgement Day because deeds of people on the earth and quarrels of angels for these deeds in the sky will continue until the Judgement Day and today the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is watching them with his blessed eyes. This Hadees has been authenticated by many Quranic Ayahs.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 446; summarised)

A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed the thorough knowledge of everything from the beginning of the universe to the last day, it means whatever has happened, is happening and will happen, the detailed knowledge of each and every particle has been imparted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also possesses the knowledge of even the particle or grain of sand lying in extreme darkness. Not only does he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have the knowledge, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also watching the entire world and whatever will happen in it until the Judgement Day, like watching his own palm. Not a single particle either in the skies or beneath the earths is concealed from his blessed eyes.

Rather, whatever has been discussed here is like a small canal out of his vast oceans of knowledge. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recognizes his entire Ummah much more than the person who knows those who spend time with him. Not only does he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recognize his Ummah but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also watching their each and every deed and movement. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also aware of the thoughts that cross our minds. Further, all the oceans of his knowledge and the knowledge of entire creation altogether have even no such comparison with the Divine knowledge which a little drop of water has with billions of oceans. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 15, pp. 74; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم answered to all the questions asked by a few people of Makkah about Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, so instead of believing in this great miracle of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم they started testing it through their intellect, or rather they became busy proving this great miracle false. Therefore despite being disgraced upon asking about the signs of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas they did not stop due to their stubbornness and started asking questions about the caravan which went to Syria for trade from Makkah Mukarramah in order to test the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The unbelievers of Quraysh said: You tell us about our caravans of traders if you have found them on the way. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: I passed by a caravan of the tribe in a place called Roha [ روحاء ]. They were looking for their camel which they lost. I came towards their luggage which was lying there but found no one. A bowl of water was lying there which I drank and then covered it.

(Then the Ghayb-knowing Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said) Now the caravan will reach here on Wednesday at sunset. You may then ask them whether they found their water-filled bowl empty or not when they came back after finding their lost camel. Also ask them: While you were searching for the camel, did anyone say by calling you out that your camel is at such and such a place and upon which you were surprisingly saying: How have we heard the voice of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) in Syria? But when you looked for the camel in that very place as per the voice, did you find your camel or not? Quraysh said: Yes! It is alright as it is a big sign.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: I also passed by a caravan of such and such a tribe whose two men were sitting on a camel. Frightened of the speed of Buraaq, their camel ran away causing both of them to fall from the camel due to which one of them broke his wrist. Now that caravan will reach here exactly at noon on Wednesday. You may ask both of them about it. The unbelievers of Quraysh said: Very good; it is also a good sign.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: I also passed by a caravan of a tribe through the place called Tan’eem [ تَنْعِیْم ]. In this caravan, a khaki-coloured camel was in the front carrying two striped bags of grain and a dark-skinned man was also sitting on it. In the same caravan, such and such a person was feeling cold and was asking for a blanket from his slave. This caravan has reached very near and will reach here at sunrise in the morning.

Before the sunrise, some people sat on a hill and started waiting for the caravan. Some people were assigned the task to wait for the sunrise so that they could pay special attention to it. Suddenly one of them shouted: Listen, look over there! The sun has risen. Meanwhile, someone said: Look over there, the caravan has also arrived. When people looked, they exactly saw a

khaki-coloured camel was in front of the caravan carrying two striped sacks of grain.

Afterwards, at noon, on Wednesday a group of Quraysh sat on the hill and started waiting for the arrival of the caravan about whose arrival the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had informed that it would reach at noon on Wednesday. Exactly at noon the second caravan also reached and the person whose news of falling from the camel was given had a broken wrist.

Thereafter, some people started waiting for the third caravan whose arrival was mentioned at sunset. The time of sunset came closer, but the caravan did not arrive. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; the Du’a was heard and the sun was stopped. As the caravan reached, the sun also set. When the people of the caravan were asked about the things he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned, they testified about all the things. The way the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned, exactly in the same way things happened. Due to the disclosure of the miracles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the unbelievers were ashamed, but they did not embrace Islam. [1]

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O the devotees of blessed saints! From the above-mentioned parable of Mi’raaj, we have perceived many Madani pearls. One of them is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the great wealth of knowledge of Ghayb [unseen].

On returning from the journey of Mi’raaj, the unbelievers of Makkah, to test him, asked about Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and the caravans travelling for the purpose of trade so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by the bestowal of Allah Almighty splendidly gave correct answers to all their questions, even he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned the correct arrival timings of the trading caravans of the unbelievers of Makkah. The act of going to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas had nothing to do with the

return of the caravans, that is, if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not mentioned the timings of the arrival of the caravans, even then due to this, objection could not have been raised to his act of going to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. But may I be sacrificed for the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also mentioned very clearly the things which had even nothing to do with the doubts of those who objected. It is a very strong evidence for his knowledge of Ghayb. It is a fact that cannot be denied because the blessed position of a Nabi is to tell the news of Ghayb.

In Bahar-e-Shari’at, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام come to tell the news of Ghayb [unseen]. Paradise, Hell, Judgement Day, torment and reward are all Ghayb and nothing else. It is their blessed position to tell about the things where human intellect and senses cannot reach and it is called Ghayb. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 46)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

On page 17 of his booklet ‘ Siyah Faam Ghulam ’ [Dark-Skinned Slave], Shaykh-e- Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: By the bestowal of Allah Almighty, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also aware of the ages of his slaves as well as the things which are going to happen to them. There are many blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran which give proof of the knowledge of Ghayb [unseen] of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In Ayah 24 of Surah At-Takweer, part 30 Allah Almighty has stated:

وَ مَا هُوَ عَلَى الْغَیْبِ بِضَنِیْنٍۚ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And th is Nabi is not miserly upon the hidden.

(Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 24)

And in Ayah 26 and 27 of Surah Al-Jinn, part 29 Allah Almighty has stated:

عٰلِمُ الْغَیْبِ فَلَا یُظْهِرُ عَلٰى غَیْبِهٖۤ اَحَدًاۙ(۲۶) اِلَّا مَنِ ارْتَضٰى مِنْ رَّسُوْلٍ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The All-Knowing of all the hidden does not give anyone the control over His secrets. Except to His chosen Noble Rusul.

(Part 29, Surah Al-Jinn, Ayah 26, 27)

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that blessed commentators have said: Allah Almighty blesses His specific Rusul with specific knowledge of Ghayb. Whatever knowledge of Ghayb blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی get, they get by the Wasilah [source] and blessings of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام .

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 10, pp. 201)

Similarly, in Ayah 179 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ مَا كَانَ اللّٰهُ لِیُطْلِعَكُمْ عَلَى الْغَیْبِ وَ لٰكِنَّ اللّٰهَ یَجْتَبِیْ مِنْ رُّسُلِهٖ مَنْ یَّشَآءُ ۪-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And it does not befit the glory of Allah to give the knowledge of Ghayb to you – i.e. the common people; but Allah does choose from His Rusul whomever He wills.

(Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 179)

Regarding this blessed Ayah ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Allah Almighty blesses His highly respectable Rusul عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام with knowledge of Ghayb and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best and the greatest Nabi amongst all Rusul. It has been proved by this blessed Ayah and many Ayahs and Ahadees that Allah Almighty bestowed the knowledge of Ghayb upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the knowledge of Ghayb is his miracle.

Dear Islamic brothers! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the news of Ghayb to his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم many times by the knowledge Allah Almighty bestowed upon him.

Sound of footsteps of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

While touring Paradise, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sound of someone’s footsteps, regarding which, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was informed that he was Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 418, Hadees 6037)

May I be sacrificed for him! See the highly exalted and greatest glory of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sound of his footsteps. How did Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ attain this great status? Let’s listen to it.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that (once) the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ at Fajr: O Bilal! Tell me which act you did in Islam for which you hope to receive the greatest reward because I heard the sound of your footsteps in front of me in Paradise. Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: [In Islam] I have not performed any such great act for which I hope to get benefit. However, when I performed Wudu or Ghusl [ritual bath] anytime during the day or night I offered Salah as much as Allah Almighty wills me to do so. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1025, Hadees 2458)

A great thinker of Ummah, ‘Allamah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also mentioned another meaning of the above-mentioned blessed Hadees that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw all these things physically in Mi’raaj, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked this question some other day after Fajr Salah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: Sayyiduna Bilal’s entry into Paradise before the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is like the entry of the servant who walks in front of his king.

Remember! During the night of Mi’raaj, neither did Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accompany the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to Paradise nor did he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was blessed with Mi’raaj, but rather the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the event which will happen after the Judgement Day. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will enter Paradise before [all] creation in a way that Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ will be in front of him as a servant.

We have learned some rulings from it. Firstly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم aware of the consequences of people such as who will be sent to Paradise and who will be sent to Hell, what will be the level of the one who will be sent to Paradise and the one who will be sent to Hell. Secondly, the blessed ears of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard and the blessed eyes saw the events which will happen after hundreds of thousands of years. This event will happen after many hundreds of thousands of years after that date. But may I be sacrificed on the blessed ears which are listening to them today. Thirdly, the way a person lives his life in this world, in the same way he will be in the Hereafter, as Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his life serving the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the world so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ will also be raised as a servant in the Hereafter. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 300)

O devotees of companions and Ahl-e-Bayt! Have you heard! By his great knowledge of Ghayb, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sound [that will be] produced by the feet of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ on the Judgement Day hundreds of thousands of years before.

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely it is a great blessing of Allah Almighty that He created us in the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and also blessed us with the treasure of Iman [faith]. Therefore we all should keep making Du’a to Allah Almighty for steadfastness in Iman and death with Iman [faith]. Pondering over the protection of Iman [faith] we should keep ourselves away from all sins, especially from those evil acts which may destroy our faith.

It is stated in Sharh-us-Sudoor: Some Islamic scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: There are four reasons for a bad end [death]. (1) Laziness in Salah (2) Drinking wine (3) Disobedience to parents (4) Causing inconvenience to Muslims.

(Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 27)

Remember! There are not only these four reasons for losing faith at the time of death, but rather many other reasons for having a bad end have been mentioned at different places. In order to know about them, it is very useful to study a 40-page booklet named ‘ Buray Khatimay kay Asbab ’ [Causes of Bad End] written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

‘Weekly Ijtima’ one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, for pondering over the protection of faith, refraining from evils, and for attaining steadfastness in virtuous deeds. Try to get the blessings of the world and the Hereafter both by taking part in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah practically. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to attend the weekly Ijtima’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, one gets the opportunity to listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran, Na’at and Sunnah-inspiring reformative speech, do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ collectively and repent of his sins during the tear-jerking Du’a along with good company.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, having good company and doing Zikr of Allah Almighty collectively are deeds of excellence. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When people gather in a Majlis and do Zikr of Allah Almighty, so when they get free, they are said: Stand up; undoubtedly, your sins have been forgiven and your bad deeds have been changed into good deeds. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 454, Hadees 695)

In order to learn the details of this weekly Madani activity ‘Weekly Ijtima’ out of 12 Madani activities, study ‘ Weekly Ijtima ’ a booklet published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami must study this booklet. This booklet is not only available at Maktaba-tul-Madinah, but it can also be read and downloaded from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

By virtue of the blessing of studying this booklet you will be able to know:

٭ Importance of Ijtima’aat

٭ Dawat-e-Islami and arrangement of Ijtima’aat

٭ What is the weekly Ijtima’?

٭ A complete schedule of Ijtima’

٭ 13 virtues and blessings of attending Ijtima’

٭ Madani pearls of Madani Mashwarahs of Central Majlis-e-Shura about weekly Ijtima’

٭ 19 Madani pearls for Khayr-Khuwah [well-wisher]

٭ Questions and answers consisting of precautions and useful information about weekly Ijtima’

٭ Shar’i and organizational precautions for weekly Ijtima’, etc.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of a devotee of Rasool who associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami by virtue of the blessing of attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’.

Look! The same environment has changed an inferior person into a superior person!

An Islamic brother from Chichawatni (Sahiwal district, Punjab Pakistan) was spending his life heedlessly. Suddenly, he had the company of a devotee of Rasool who was associated with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. The individual effort made by the devotee of Rasool brought him closer to Dawat-e-Islami and he associated himself with the Madani environment. When he attended the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ for the first time, he was privileged to listen to the speech from beginning to end. He liked all this very much. When the blessed Zikr of Allah Almighty started suddenly a spiritual change took place in him, causing him to start doing Zikr of Allah Almighty. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه! By virtue of the blessing of this Zikr and Du’a, he became sober, repented of his past sins and started following the path of virtuous deeds. He grew a beard and started wearing an Imamah [a turban].

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه! He was also privileged to gain the blessing of the congregational I’tikaf held in the holy month of Ramadan. Now his respected father has also grown a beard and all of his family members have entered the spiritual order of Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Attariyyah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In the night of Mi’raaj, when Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was present in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard a sound from the sky. Having heard the sound from

the sky he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his head towards the sky and said: This door of the sky is opened today and has never been opened before. Then an angel came down from the door, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: This angel has come down today and has never come down before. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 314, Hadees 806)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The sky has billions of doors through which different things come and go. One of the doors is that which was opened only in the night of Mi’raaj for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 138)

O devotees of Rasool! May I be sacrificed on the great sense of hearing of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! From the earth, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only heard the sound of the sky, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw the door of the sky and the angel that came down through the door. Further, by means of his great knowledge of Ghayb (unseen), he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also stated that the door had neither been opened before nor the angel had ever come down to the earth before.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه! How glorious our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is! From the earth he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was telling us about the sky and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was in the sky, he was telling us about the earth.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When I entered Paradise I heard Qira`at [recitation]. I asked: Who is he? So the angels humbly replied: He is Sayyiduna Haarisah Bin Nu’man رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Kitab Ma’rifat-us-Sahabah, vol. 4, pp. 216, Hadees 4982)

Similarly, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the coughing sound of Sayyiduna Nu’aym Bin ‘Abdullah Nuhhaam [ نُحّام ] رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in Paradise. (Kitab Ma’rifat-us-Sahabah, vol. 4, pp. 289, Hadees 5177)

It has been learnt that from the earth the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can see the sky, Paradise, ‘Arsh and all the angels and if he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is in Paradise, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of whatever is happening on the earth.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to listen and learn these beautiful pearls, to develop the love and devotion to Rasool and to live your life as per the Sunnahs of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Weekly Ijtima’ Majlis

O the devotees of saints! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه! Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is propagating the call towards righteousness in approximately 107 departments all over the world. One of them is ‘Weekly Ijtima’ Majlis’. ‘Weekly Ijtima’ Majlis’ usually consists of 3 to 5 members. This Majlis makes the schedule for Qaaris, Na’at reciters and preachers. This Majlis writes the names of the Islamic brothers who recite the Holy Quran, Na’ats and deliver the Bayan. After writing their names on pieces of paper this Majlis informs the responsible Islamic brother at least seven days before.

This Majlis makes a suitable arrangement for the security of the venue of Ijtima’ especially at entrance gates, makes arrangements for speakers, lights, generators and UPS for the venue of Ijtima’. This Majlis also makes arrangements for water at the place of Wudu, places of Istinja, etc. It takes care of the cleanliness of the venue of Ijtima and Masjid. It spreads dhurries [a type of carpet woven of cotton] and mats before the Ijtima’ and picks them up when the Ijtima’ ends, persuades gently and affectionately the Islamic brothers who are busy talking at stalls, places of Wudu, on the roof of the Masjid, etc., to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’.

This Majlis also makes the arrangement for free water stalls at suitable places as per need. It also monitors the supply of books and booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah at the stalls. Similarly, this Majlis also arranges parking for the

vehicles of the Islamic brothers who come to Ijtima’, it keeps shoes in a proper manner after making stands for placing shoes, specifies a place for every stall, fixes banners, boards, etc., where possible are the responsibilities of this Majlis. May Allah Almighty bless ‘the Weekly Ijtima’ Majlis’ with more progress!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of clipping nails

O the devotees of Rasool! Let’s listen to some Madani pearls of clipping nails from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ It is Mustahab to clip nails on Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

٭ A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has said: It is narrated that whosoever clips his nails on Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 212, Hadees 4422)

In one narration, it is stated that whosoever clips his nails on Friday, mercy will be showered [upon him] and [his] sins will be removed. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of clipping nails will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 04 April 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of clipping nails

٭ Following is summary of the narrated method of cutting nails: Begin with the index finger of the right hand and cut your nails in order up to the little finger; but do not cut your thumb nail. Now, beginning with the little finger of the left hand, cut your nails in order including that of the thumb. In the end, cut the nail of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 193)

٭ No specific order of cutting toenails has been narrated. It is better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot and cut in order, including the big toe, then cut the nails of left foot in order, beginning with the big toe including that of the small toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670)

٭ It is Makruh to clip the nails in the state of Janabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 358)

٭ It is Makruh to bite nails with teeth. There is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 358)

٭ Bury the nails after clipping them. They can also be thrown away. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 358)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a to seek refuge from disbelief and destitutio n

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a to seek refuge from disbelief and destitution ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِنِّیْۤ اَعُوْذُبِکَ مِنَ الْکُفْرِ وَ الْفَقْرِ وَ عَذَابِ الْقَبْرِ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ I seek Your refuge from disbelief, destitution, and the torment of the grave . (Sunan Nasa`ee, pp. 231, Hadees 1344)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

