اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

On page 6 of his booklet ‘ Ziya-e-Durood-o-Salam ’ Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has recorded a saying of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Whoever says this ‘ اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ ’ my intercession becomes Wajib for him.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 5, pp. 25, Hadees 4480)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

­­­

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura and Nigran-e-Kabinat

Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)

8 to 11 Rajab-ul-Murajjab, 1436 AH (27 th to 30 th April, 2015)

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Soon there will be such Fitnah (conflicts) that the one sitting among them would be better than the one standing, the one standing would be better than the one walking and the one walking would be better than the one running. One, who peeps towards them, they will grab him. Therefore, anyone finding a shelter or a safe place should avail it.

Explanation of Hadees: In this blessed Hadees, sitting refers to stay away from these conflicts and not to have any concern with them at all. It will be the means of protection from these conflicts. He will neither see those conflicts, nor will he be influenced by them. Standing means to see them from a distance, to know or be aware of them. Walking means to be slightly occupied with them. Running refers to be completely occupied with them. A safe place means the place of peace and shelter means the man who could protect him from the Fitnahs i.e. either he should go to the place of shelter or should stay with such a person who could protect him from such Fitnahs.

(Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 9, pp. 261, Hadees 5384)

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: What would be your condition that time? When you would be left in people’s husk (of wheat or barley), their vows and promises and things (committed to your trust and care) will be muddled and have disagreement in common, so they will become like this. Having said this, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put the blessed fingers into the fingers of other hand (i.e. they will become entangled).

Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has humbly said: What is the commandment for me for that time? It was said: Hold your home firmly; control your tongue; start doing the thing you feel good and leave the thing you feel bad and pay special attention to your own matters and leave the matters of common people.

Explanation of Hadees: i.e. You will be left in useless people, who will benefit none; they will have three defects. (1) Breaking of promise (2) Breach of trust (3) Mutual quarrels. In that age, worry about yourself; do not talk about people’s

condition and their affairs at that time and nor talk about anything prior to thinking carefully as many times misfortune befalls due to tongue. This blessed saying gives us the lesson of peace and safety till the Judgement Day. Restraining from talking irresponsibly can protect us from many troubles. Staying at home and not intermingled with people are means of being safe from sins. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 9, pp. 278, Hadees 5398)

We have to kill our Nafs and bad desires for becoming pious; if we become pious, it will affect our home and also subordinate Islamic brothers.

Piety is human’s precious jewellery and wealth.

To have wrong friendship with people and holding unnecessary conversation about current affairs can be harmful.

In our age, the great sources of Fitnahs are mobile phone, laptop, internet etc. Use them carefully. They should be used in a limit when necessary.

Stay away from the harm of current conditions. Protect yourself as well as others from the evil influence of these things.

The internal Fitnah of a person is this that his heart becomes hard, he does not feel the sweetness of worship nor does he feel pleasure in supplications.

It is stated in a Hadees that woman is the Fitnah (i.e. test) for this Ummah. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَا تَرَكۡتُ بَعۡدِيۡ فِتۡنَةً اَضَرَّ عَلَي اُمَّتِي مِنَ النِّسَاءِ عَلَي الرِّجَال ’, i.e. After me [after the blessed apparent life], I have left the biggest Fitnah on the men of Ummah and that is the Fitnah of women.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 174, Hadees 21805)

Keep reciting the following Du’a:

اَللّٰہُمَّ اِنِّی اَعُوْذُبِكَ مِنْ فِتْنَۃِ النِّسَاۤءِ وَ اَعُوْذُبِكَ مِنْ عَذَ ا بِ الْقَبْر

i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I seek Your protection from the Fitnah of woman and the torment of grave. (I’tilal-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 203, Raqm 200)

We have to protect the honour of Muslims.

We should have such habits due to which our subordinates should say that their Nigran is noble.

Islamic knowledge is necessary for any sort of religious work. A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن was asked about performing a Nikah (marrying a couple) by a Nikah-performing person (one who solemnizes the marriages), some of the portion of the answer of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is presented here in an easy way:

If a person is blind and has no custodian, he can perform a Nikah (marry a couple) and there is no harm in it, but if he is ignorant, it can be harmful because he is unaware of Nikah rulings, so there is a possibility that he may do something that may make Nikah invalid and husband and wife due to their ignorance may remain heedless of it. In this way, مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they may suffer from Haraam throughout their life. Therefore extreme care in Nikah is mandatory. Nikah-performing person (one, who solemnizes the marriage) should be religious, pious, well-aware of the rulings of Nikah, because the ignorant may do or say something harmful unwillingly. Whereas, transgressor dishonest person should not be trusted; when he himself has no sense of Halal and Haraam, how could we be hopeful that he will take care for others.

(After this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned those mistakes which are made by the Nikah-performing persons and then said) The reason for these things is the same—ignorance; apart from them there is a fear of many other mistakes, which are only known to Islamic scholars or those righteous people who are fond of having the company of Islamic scholars, serving them and learning Islamic rulings properly from them. In short, the act of performing a Nikah of a couple by an ignorant person is absolutely against Islamic rulings, as his Imamat (leading prayers) or business partnership because the risk of disturbance and conflict we may have there, the same risk exist in Nikah as well ‘ كَمَا لَا يَخۡفٰي ’ (as it is not concealed.) (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 11, pp. 188-190)

1. If a Zimmahdar (responsible) Islamic brother does not know essential Shar’i rulings, there is a risk that he, due to his ignorance, may indulge in those deeds which are impermissible.

2. Being unaware of Islamic rulings one will keep making mistakes the whole year, or rather throughout his life.

3. In addition to be aware of the essential religious rulings, Nigran must be honest, sensible and pious.

4. Sinful and dishonest is untrustworthy; he may spoil more than improve. When he does not care about his own reformation, how could he make a true effort for the reformation of others?

5. The personality of Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is before us; he has a keen interest in learning Shar’i rulings; he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه studies Fatawa deeply and attentively; he kept visiting Mufti-e- A’zam Pakistan Mufti Muhammad Waqaruddin Qadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for learning (Islamic) rulings regularly for 22 years.

6. For the solution of organizational Shar’i problems, Madani Markaz has established a proper Ifta Maktab . All the Zimmahdar Islamic brothers should be in contact with it and keep seeking guidance.

7. It is propitious that Zimmahdar Islamic brothers have a mindset to seek Shar’i guidelines; further keen interest should be taken in it. Zimmahdar Islamic brothers should go to Ifta Maktab themselves instead of sending any subordinate to Ifta Maktab for the organizational Shar’i matter they need any guidelines for.

8. After seeking Shar’i guidance if the Fatwa is in favour of that work, so now instead of taking a sigh of relief, Islamic brothers should think of completing this work practically as per Shari’ah . Therefore, after seeking Shar’i guidance, the work will not be over but rather it will begin.

9. One of the reasons of the blessed revolution that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم brought in Arab society is that the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم fully trained his companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

10. Responsible Islamic brothers should read the first part of Bahar-e-Shari’at carefully for learning fundamental beliefs. If they do not understand anything, they should obtain guidance from Islamic scholars. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّمَا الۡعِلۡمُ بِالتَّعَلُّمِ ’, i.e. Knowledge is only gained by learning it. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 41)

11. To remove the faults, ponder over its causes. It is difficult to remove the faults without removing its causes.

12. Religion is easy and also difficult as well.

13. We all as a Muslim should learn essential beliefs and Islamic rulings and as a Zimmahdar Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami should learn general organizational and Shar’i rulings such as donation (Madani donations), skins of sacrificed animals, Waqf, call towards righteousness and the rulings and manners of Masjid and in case of having the responsibility of any Shu’bah (department), its specific rulings should be learnt.

14. Nigran-e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Abu Rajab Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari and Nigran-e-Majlis Overseas Abu Al-Madani Haji Abdul Habib Attari should give 72% time out of their engagements for making organizational and Shar’i Madani pearls.

15. In order to avoid Shar’i and organizational faults, competent people should be appointed. Prior to giving responsibility to anyone in any department think about it whether he desires to work in that department and is he capable of performing the assigned work or not?

16. In order to save the work from being spoiled, responsibility should be given to that person who could accomplish it.

17. One who is capable of taking more responsibilities can be given more responsibilities and there is no harm in it.

18. A syllabus should be designed consisting of Fard ‘Uloom for Madrasa-tul-Madinah, the training of the Islamic brothers teaching this course should be imparted by Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat and those taught, should be assigned the responsibility of teaching in Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults. (Ijarah can also be done if necessary.)

19. The people who devote their life to reforming the Ummah, their lifestyle is different from ordinary people.

20. The blessed life of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم should be studied in order to learn the manner of serving Ummah, because they learned teachings of Islam directly from the Prophet of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

21. Congratulations to those who are busying themselves with Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami day and night.

22. I wish that every member of Dawat-e-Islami had this desire that non-practicing Muslims all around the world become practicing Muslims and those who are non-Muslims become Muslims!

23. Strengthen the Madani work of cities; when the work of big cities gets strong, the Madani work of surroundings will also be improved.

24. Not only Nigran of City Mushawarat but every Zimmahdar Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami should possess the following characteristics:

He should be aware of the required Fard ‘Uloom and studies it to keep it in his memory (for gaining the needful Fard ‘Uloom, contact Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat).

He should regularly offer 5-time Salah with Jama’at daily and offer Maghrib and ‘Isha Salah in different areas and try to increase Madani activities.

He should not be the one who shows boldness in Shar’i matters, because one who shows boldness in Shar’i matters, will also show boldness in the matters of Tahreek (movement) as well.

Even he should go to different areas to offer Salat-ul-Fajr and if he arranges Madani Halqahs then it is Madinah Madinah (extremely excellent).

He should not be short-tempered, but rather be cheerful.

He should be habitual of performing 12 Madani activities according to situation.

He should regularly wear Madani attire.

If he is capable of doing Imamat (leading prayers) then it is excellent. (To learn Imamat, 126-day course of Imamat etc. can be done.)

He should have done 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah course, and may he have done 12-day Madani course as well!

He should be the one who tries to practice at least 63 Madani In’amaat.

He should fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat daily and submit it to the Zimmahdar Islamic brother every month. (It is great if someone is busy with Madani activities, but some activities are of individual nature whereas their loss occurs collectively.)

He should be regular attender of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ from Maghrib to Ishraq and Chasht.

He should be a regular traveller with 3-day Madani Qafilah every month.

He should perform the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami not in authoritative manner but humble and subservient manner.

He should try to create Madani environment at home.

No one criticizes his character (it is very necessary to protect your character).

Hadees 1: One who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Judgement Day, he does not stay at the place of slander at all.

Hadees 2: Avoid the thing that makes ears sinful.

Hadees 3: Avoid the act for which an apology has to be made.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 25, pp. 78)

He regularly attends weekly Madani Muzakarahs collectively.

He does his work according to the schedule he prepares in advance.

He analyses his Madani activities every Tuesday.

He thinks about the need of Masajid and plans to build a Masjid where there is no Masjid. Likewise, he makes his efforts for the Bastah of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, and for Dar-ul-Madinah etc.

He should be the one who makes his great effort to collect and persuade others to collect Madani donations and skins of sacrificed animals.

The Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami is performed more in his city than others.

The Madani work of Islamic sisters performed under his supervision should be according to organizational methodology and Shari’ah and should be strong.

He attends all the Madani Mashwarahs.

He remains in contact with his Nigran and subordinates as well.

He attends funeral procession, visits the sick and meets displeased Islamic brothers.

He takes interest in forming departments like Majlis Contact, Madani Qafilah, Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah etc. and arranges their Mashwarahs as per schedule.

He remains in contact with Aimmah-e-Kiraam, teachers related to education department and other staff members, Islamic scholars and Aimmah of the area, important government and social personalities, and big landlords.

He regularly goes to Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah and arranges Madani Mashwarahs in it.

Whenever a problem and disagreement between responsible Islamic brothers arise, he does not take anyone’s side.

He is the one who does every new work after seeking permission from the Nigran and with complete Shar’i guidance. (If a Nigran-e-Mushawarat possesses these qualities, lots of Madani activities will be carried out, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Sincerity is the key to acceptance.)

25. Get into the habit of reciting the Holy Quran. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ when entered his home he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would first of all recite the Holy Quran.

(Tafseer At-Tabari, vol. 5, pp. 253, Raqm 13499)

26. Members of Shura and Nigran-e-Kabinat should organize Madani activities and departments and appoint competent responsible Islamic brothers. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will work attentively and be saved from being ashamed. Sometimes many problems are faced when different activities or the responsibilities of different departments are being carried out in an easy way. It may have two big reasons: (1) To use disorganized way (2) To disperse all the activities or the different affairs of all the departments

Try to understand the first reason by this example: We are present in our Maktab; there are many things on our table such as a glass of water, a plate, used to cover the glass, a plate, and some eatable items; other

small useful things are also present such as a pen, Madani pad, scale, paper weight etc. Now just think for a while if we have to pick all these things up together and for this we only use our two hands, so surely it will be very difficult. Not only will it be difficult but it may become the cause of harm as anything may fall and break. Undoubtedly, being sensible you will choose the big thing which may carry all these things together. You may arrange a shopping bag or a tray. Placing all these things on the tray you may take it. Suppose if all the things cannot be placed on the tray, then you may think about bigger than this tray. Finally you may manage something through which you will be able to pick up many things safely together.

The same is the case with different activities and the responsibilities of different departments. If you do not manage all the departments or all the responsibilities, you will not have any strong system. If you try to do it in one attempt without any proper method, so you may face great troubles; you may suffer loss like some things may break and may waste after falling.

Second reason is to disperse all the matters: It is a true fact that if new things are not placed well and are scattered, so at first glance they look like junk (old broken things). The one who sees it facing difficulties in guessing forthwith if all these things are absolutely new. On the contrary, if there are many old things, properly kept on their right places, so those old things also look new. Even sometimes one who sees them is impelled to ask if these things are new. Though the things are old since they are placed well, hence look beautiful. You must have estimated it in a proper way when all the things are properly kept on our table, we also feel that today dusting has been done properly. Whereas if the same things are not kept properly, then despite the dusting we feel if dusting has not been done today.

In short, the way keeping different things at the right places properly brings beauty and newness to them, in the same way if different acts are performed in an organized manner, it will lead to a good completion. Organize your all affairs or all departments and their affairs; perform

every act on its set time; give as much attention to the work as it requires. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, acting upon both these Madani pearls all the activities will be carried in a proper manner. You will get rid of tension. You will get the Madani inspiration of carrying the responsibility in an essay way by obeying the Nigran instead of being dissatisfied with the responsibility, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

27. Members of Shura should make their Maktab operational; organize their schedule; make operational Maktab responsible Islamic brothers.

28. Fix your time in Maktab .

29. Arrange the Madani Mashwarah of the Maktab Islamic brothers; strengthen your contact with them.

30. It is harmful to forget the responsible Islamic brothers after assigning them with the task.

31. For the improvement of the system, it is necessary to make responsible Islamic brothers and then to use them.

32. Currently, Dawat -e- Islami has 97 departments; every department should be the one that improves the other one.

33. The responsible Islamic brothers of departments of Pakistan level should travel to Barakati (Baluchistan), Muhammadi (Kashmir), Junaydi [ Sukkur, Farooq Nagar (Larkana), Jacobabad (‘ Attarabad) etc. districts], Ashaabi (Thatta, Badin etc.), Jeelani (KPK), in particular, to Meeladi Kabinat (Gilgit-Baltistan).

34. The appointment of responsible Islamic brothers of departments should be completed; if one responsible Islamic brother has one responsibility, it is ideal.

35. One, who has been responsible for one department, should not be changed as far as possible. If a change is inevitable, so the Nigran of that Majlis should be consulted; changes are not allowed without any Mashwarah .

36. The bigger the responsibility is the stronger should be the contact.

37. If an Islamic brother faces economic or domestic problems, so keep in touch with him. This contact should not be made in the hope for Madani work, but rather for the reason that he remains associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

38. If demise occurs at a responsible Islamic brother’s home or he gets a shock or has a loss in his business or falls ill, visit him, console him and encourage him by offering condolences.

39. Delay in development work and lack of contact lead to serious damage.

40. The Overseas Nigran-e-Kabinah should be in contact with the concerned members of Shura.

41. Every member of Dawat-e-Islami should collect Madani donation and give their Zakah and Fitrah only to Dawat-e-Islami.

42. The I’tikaf, Sahari and Iftari of the whole month of Ramadan and the last 10 days should be planned out now (from Rajab-ul-Murajjab) so that attention can be given only to collecting Madani donations in the month of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak.

43. The responsible Islamic brothers of Kabinah level should migrate to foreign countries; Madani work is required there after creating Madani environment. If you cannot migrate, then travel for 12 months. If you cannot travel for twelve months, at least travel for 92 days.

44. In the month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram 1436 AH, 37 Nigran-e-Kabinat and Nigran-e-Kabinah will travel for at least 92 days to foreign countries; this responsibility has been given to Nigran Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Haji Abu Rajab Muhammad Shahid Attari.

(1) Sayyid Riyaz Bapu Attari (Muhammadi Kabinat, 92 days, Muharram-ul- Haraam) (2) Muhammad Saleem Attari (Ghazali Kabinat, 92 days, 10 Shawwal) (3) Muhammad Zahid Attari (Junaydi Kabinat, 92 days, Shawwal) (4) Muhammad Anwar Attari (Barakati Kabinat, 92 days, Zul-Hijjah) (5) Abdul Wahhab Attari (Siddeeqi Kabinat, 92 days, Muharram) (6) Qaari Muhammad Khalid Attari) (Suharwerdi Kabinat, 92 days)

(7) Muhammad Shakeel Attari (Qadiri Kabinah) (8) Muhammad Asif Attari (Bhitayi Kabinah) (9) Haji Muhammad Aamir Attari (Haamidi Kabinah) (10) Muhammad Fuzayl Attari (Junaydi Kabinah) (11) Muhammad Sadaat Attari (Sayrani Kabinah) (12) Ali Asghar Attari Al-Madani (Hashimi Kabinah) (13) Qaari Safdar Attari (Khursheedi Kabinah) (14) Muhammad Owais Attari (Mahawari Kabinah) (15) Ghulam Mustafa Attari (Tonsawi Kabinah) (16) Ghulam Abbas Attari (Shaafi’i Kabinah) (17) Muhammad Raashid Attari (Farooqi Kabinah) (18) Muhammad Ashraf Attari (Haqqani Kabinah) (19) Muhammad Shahzad Attari (92 days, Sultani, Alif Saani Kabinah) (20) Ghulam Abbas Attari (Fareedi Kabinah, 92 days)

(21) Qaari Muhammad Naveed Attari (Huzoori Kabinah, 12 months) (22) Ghulam Sarwar Attari (Mazhari Kabinah, 6 months) (23) Abdur Raoof Attari (Murshidi Kabinah, 6 months) (24) Muhammad Abid Attari (Siyalvi Kabinah, 92 days) (25) Muhammad Usayd Attari (Makki Madani Kabinah, 12 months) (26) Muhammad Daniyal Attari (Tirmizi Kabinah, 92 days) (27) Muhammad Touseef Attari (Saabiri Kabinah, 12 months) (28) Muhammad Liyaqat Attari (Makki Kabinah, 92 days) (29) Muhammad Mushtaq Attari (Ajmayri Kabinah, 92 days) (30) Muhammad Baghdad Attari (Muhammadi Kabinah, 92 days) (31) Muhammad Ramazan Attari (Hazarawi Kabinah, 92 days) (32) Muhammad Abdur Raheem Attari (Barakati Kabinah, 92 days) (33) Muhammad Piyara Attari (Hijazi Kabinah, 92 days) (34) Muhammad Imtiyaz Attari (Channasi Kabinah, 92 days) (35) Muhammad Shakeel Attari (Nolakhi

Kabinah, 92 days) (36) Muhammad Zubayr Attari (Arshadi Kabinah, 92 days) (37) Muhammad Nisar Attari (Usaydi Kabinah, 92 days)

45. Those whose passports are submitted in Majlis Overseas Maktab, should be contacted and sent to a foreign country in a prescribed methodology.

46. A Murshid blesses his disciples with the luminosity of faith.

47. The love of blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی is inculcated in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

48. Ensure implementation of Madani pearls bestowed by the Markaz.

49. Members of Shura should go to the Division and after gathering area-wise Mushawarats over there they should have Madani Mashwarah about Madani activities.

50. One who is away from the sight gets away from the heart as well.

51. It is an important task to find out an honest responsible Islamic brother.

52. Organize your Madani work and do not be inattentive in any matters.

53. Every department of Dawat-e-Islami be watched carefully.

54. Arrange professional training in every department.

55. For the use of the Madani donations collected through telethon for the constructions of Madani Marakiz, member of Shura Haji Muhammad Ammad Attari Al-Madani has made a system and Madani pearls, now it is the responsibility of the concerned members of Shura (who have the Kabinat of Pakistan) to implement them practically.

56. Member of Shura Sayyid Ibraheem Attari and Nigran Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Abu Rajab Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari should send the money to the finance of Kabinat level forthwith after having a Mashwarah.

57. Members of Shura should pay attention to the constructions of Faizan -e- Madinah.

58. Members of Shura through Majlis Faizan -e-Madinah and Majlis Constructions should get the construction of Faizan -e-Madinah completed before the sacred month of Ramadan.

59. Masajid should be constructed in the surroundings of those big cities where new colonies are being established.

60. A Majlis should be formed to meet the staff of the scheme of new colonies and to build new Masajid and Madaris with their help.

61. Wherever there is construction, the permission of Majlis Construction is necessary as per the organizational methodology.

62. This year (1436 AH), the I’tikaf of the whole month of Ramadan should be arranged in 126 places in Pakistan and, the last 10-day I’tikaf (Sunnah I’tikaf) should be arranged in approximately 4000 places.

63. Among surrounding villages approximately 1 out of 15/20 villages should be made a centre and then arranged a collective I’tikaf . This will increase the Madani work of Dawat -e- Islami a lot in surrounding villages, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

64. There will be specific prerequisites for (whole month) I’tikaf -observing Islamic brothers in Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan -e-Madinah and those who fulfil the prerequisites will be permitted to observe I’tikaf . The places where I’tikaf forms will be available shall be announced on Madani Channel, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

65. The big organizations, VIP areas and those areas where Madani activities are less, should be focused and I’tikaf should be observed in Masajid of those areas.

66. In the month of Ramadan, a Madani Tarbiyyat Centre will be established at a hotel of Murree (Pakistan). This responsibility has been given to the member of Shura Haji Muhammad Azhar Attari .

67. VIPs from different fields of life should also be persuaded to observe I’tikaf .

68. Those who persuade others to observe I’tikaf should be trained.

69. The Tarbiyyati Ijtima ’ of Majlis I’tikaf will be held at 40 places via satellite; it should be done through audio link in foreign countries, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(1) Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan -e-Madinah, Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi) Attari Kabinat (2) Quetta (3) Faizan -e-Madinah Dera Allah Yar (4) Faizan -e-Madinah Winder district Lasbela (5) Faizan -e-Madinah Hyderabad (6) Mirpur Khas (7) Moro (8) Sukkur (9) Farooq Nagar (Larkana) (10) Daharki (11) Khanpur (12) Bahawalpur (13) Hasilpur (14) Madina-tul-Awliya (Multan) (15) Dera Ghazi Khan (16) Sardarabad (Faisalabad) (17) Okara (18) Dar-us-Salam (Toba) (19) Gulzar -e- Taybah (Sargodha) (20) Mianwali (21) Layyah (22) Jauhar Town, Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore) (23) Sheikhupura (24) Noorani Masjid Kasur (25) Gujrat (26) Gujranwala (27) Ziyakot (Sialkot) (28) Narowal (29) Islamabad (30) Rawalpindi (31) Jhelum (32) Mirpur (Kashmir) (33) Muzaffarabad (Kashmir) (34) Nakyal (Kashmir) (35) Peshawar (36) Rahmatabad (37) Dera Ismail Khan (38) Thatha (39) Gharo (40) Attari Kot (Astore, Gilgit-Baltistan)

70. Try your best to attend Madani Channel Silsilah named Munajat -e- Iftar .

71. Make a lot of persuasion in Madani Mashwarahs to watch and get others to watch Madani Channel.

72. For the advertisement of Madani Channel, place the standy issued by Maktaba - tul -Madinah at important places.

73. Every Nigran Kabinah should place 1200 Madani Donation Boxes in his Kabinah till Shawwal- ul - Mukarram 1436 AH. It should be placed at home prior to the month of Ramadan. Bring its progress in the next Mashwarah of Shura . Moreover, email its progress to Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Maktab every month.

74. The target for the increase of money in Madani Donation Box is Rs . 200 per box.

75. Majlis Madrasa- tul -Madinah should place 72 thousand Madani Donation Boxes in the houses; Majlis will have the responsibility of providing these boxes, whereas Jami’a - tul -Madinah for boys and girls should place Madani Donation Boxes in 25 thousand houses.

76. Nigran -e- Kabinah should hold monthly Ijtima ’ of those shopkeepers in whose shops Madani Donation Boxes are placed.

77. Those associated with Jami’a - tul -Madinah are the assets of Dawat -e- Islami .

78. Every responsible Islamic brother should make this intention that he will take himself admission in Jami’a - tul -Madinah or at least admit one in Jami’a - tul -Madinah.

79. Train the students of Jami’a - tul -Madinah from the very first level in a way that they become capable of Imamat before they complete their studies.

80. Members of Shura should visit Jami’a - tul -Madinah once a week and send weekly progress report to member of Shura Haji Muhammad Asad Attari Al- Madani .

81. Responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat -e- Islami should travel with Madani Qafilahs and participate in Madani activities with the students of Jami’a - tul -Madinah where it is possible.

82. Nigran-e-Kabinah should have Madani Mashwarah about Madani activities with the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah other than their class timings every month.

Ijtima’aat

83. The Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ of Majlis Aimmah-e-Masajid and the Ijtima’ of the students of Dora-e-Hadees for Dastaar-e-Fazeelat will be held in Shawwal-ul-Mukarram 1436 AH. Place: Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi).

84. The Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ from Shura to members of Kabinah and of area-wise Mushawarats was held in Pakistan on Friday after Maghrib to Fajr on Sunday at 8 places from 4 to 6 Rajab-ul-Murajjab 1436 AH, 24 th to 26 th April, 2015 in which the attendance of Meeladi Kabinah (Gilgit-Baltistan) was best amongst all.

Do not make lame excuses

85. If you are unable to do any work or your progress is weak then instead of making lame excuses giving true and logical reasons is understandable, otherwise there is a fear of falling into a lie.

86. Protect people from having ill opinion about you; try your best to come up on people’s expectations.

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Qafilahs

87. 7 th Salat-‘Alan-Nabi has been added named ‘Durood-e-Shafa’at’ [Salat for Intercession] to the 6 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi which are made to recite in the end of the Bayan of weekly Ijtima’. This newly-added Durood-e-Shafa’at is mentioned on page 172 of Madani Treasure of Blessings .

88. Members of Shura, Nigran-e-Kabinat and Nigran-e-Kabinah should deliver a Bayan in a weekly Ijtima’ of any city on Thursday and on the Friday morning travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah forthwith. The city to which Madani Qafilah sets out should be informed in advance; preparation

should be made. The place where Madani Qafilah goes, over there last day (Sunday) after Salat-ul-‘Isha, Bayan should be delivered. If this routine is followed every week, then Madinah Madinah.

89. Majlis Waqf Property has been formed for the most important work.

90. Praise of someone else does not reduce the respect of any other.

91. System is not the name of saying few words, but it is the name of deciding Madani pearls after considering the positive and negative impact of all the aspects.

92. By using the post and authority Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon you, increase the Madani work and make it a source of perpetual reward for yourself, so that you may not regret later on because no one holds post and authority forever.

93. If someone wants to succeed, he should study the character of successful people. Removing the causes of failure also brings about success.

94. For the success of any task, the determination of the purpose, schedule and then efforts according to the demand of its work are necessary.

95. Whenever Majlis Maliyat sets anything for any Majlis or seeks guidance from Ifta Maktab, it will do so along with that Majlis.

96. Dar-ul-Madinah should arrange an Ijtima’ of philanthropist guardians for paying the fees of the students of Dar-ul-Madinah who are unable to pay their fees.

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura and Aalami Majlis Mushawarat

(Madani work for Islamic sisters)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would get information from the people about their practices. Two narrations are presented here:

1. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not only call delegations from different areas, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked about different matters of their rulers as well. When delegations would come to him, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would ask questions like this: How is your ruler? Does he inquire after the slaves? Does he attend funeral processions? Is his door soft or hard? (i.e. Does it remain open to deliver the subjects from oppression or closed?)

If the delegates made this answer that he would listen to the poor and oppressed people and also inquire after the slaves, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would leave the ruler; otherwise he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would dismiss him by sending him a message. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 307, Hadees 14332)

2. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would know this thing by virtue of his insight that sometimes subjects due to the intimidating personality of their ruler cannot say anything in his presence, therefore when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would send a messenger to a ruler or governor, so he would order him to make this announcement to the people: If anyone wants to send a personal letter to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ), so he can give it to me I will take it to him. The messenger himself even did not know what was written in the letter.

Consequently, if anyone among the subjects had any complaint from his concerned ruler, so it would reach Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ directly. It means he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made a proper way for the people to

express their grief and sorrow so that anyone who wanted could express his grief and sorrow to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ through this way. When the messenger would arrive carrying those letters, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would spread them on the floor and then would read all the letters one by one. Then after their verification, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would issue his order. (Tareekh Madinah Munawwarah, vol. 2, pp. 760)

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70. &nbs

be in trouble or having suffered from illness. Upon knowing the reason, go to condole or inquire after him.

104. The progress Mashwarah of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should be arranged every month via Skype together with Nigran -e- Majlis Madani Work for Islamic sisters, member of Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari Al- Madani, Nigran -e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Abu Rajab Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari .

105. Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should improve the Madani work of Majlis Education Department for girls, because if the Madani work of this department is improved, it will make things easy for getting the services of trained Islamic sisters in Dar- ul -Madinah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

106. When a course has to be offered, so Maktaba - tul -Madinah should be given the order of the books and booklets related to the course 3 months earlier as to where how many books and booklets are needed.

107. Islamic sisters of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should be in contact with both the employed Islamic sisters of Maktaba - tul -Madinah.

108. Kabinat Zimmahdar Kabinah, Kabinah Zimmahdar Division, Division Zimmahdar of Area and Area Zimmahdar should go to the Zayli Halqahs and participate in Madani activities and arrange Madani Mashwarahs .

109. The Kabinah member Islamic brother of Majlis Madani Work for Islamic Sisters and its Mushawarat should become active; make schedules for every division and (try to) increase the Madani work of Islamic sisters according to a prescribed methodology.

110. All the Islamic sisters should collect lots of donations for Dawat -e- Islami .

111. City Majlis Finance should give the receipts of Madani donations to Area Mushawarat Nigrans for Islamic sisters in the beginning of Rajab- ul - Murajjab and they, through their Mahrimah, should send them to the concerned Islamic sisters forthwith.

112. Islamic sisters, who collect Madani donations, and deposit them to Area Mushawarat Nigran through their Mahram are allowed now (1) to deposit through their Mahram to the Bastah of Majlis Finance that is arranged in weekly Ijtima ’. (2) To deposit through Mahram to the Finance Zimmahdar of City Level or (3) the member of Kabinah of Majlis Madani Work for Islamic Sisters and the Islamic brothers of its Mushawarat (in all these three cases receipts should be sent to your Zimmahdar Islamic sister after depositing Madani donations).

113. Nigran Majlis Madani Work for Islamic Sisters, member of Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari should email the record of all the Zimmahdaran of his Majlis to ‘ Aalami Majlis Mushawarat Zimmahdar . Target: 7 days

114. Member of Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari should get Pakistan’s organizational boundaries from Pakistan Organizational Kabinah Maktab and email it to Islamic sisters. Target: 7 days

115. The Madani Work of Islamic sisters is very important for the improvement of Dawat -e- Islami’s Madani activities.

116. Whatever organizational Madani pearls Islamic brothers decide, Mushawarat should be made with the Islamic sisters as per the prescribed methodology for those Madani pearls that belong to the Madani work of Islamic sisters or which affect the Madani work of Islamic

sisters. The same rules are to be followed by the departments such as Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Dar-ul-Madinah, Madaris-ul-Madinah etc.

117. Spread Madani activities a lot and act upon Madani In’amaat.

118. Prior to making changes in the organizational boundaries of Kabinah etc. the opinion of Islamic sisters should be taken as per the methodology. If changes are inevitable and the Madani work of Islamic sisters are affected and Islamic sisters want to retain the previous organizational order, so they should be given the permission.

119. Character-building is necessary for the improvement of Madani activities. Members of Shura along with Islamic brothers, from time to time, should arrange the Tarbiyyati Ijtima’aat of Islamic sisters as well.

120. Madani work will increase if there are fewer problems; if character is weak, problems will increase.

121. Character-building is also necessary for those who teach courses.

122. Look for such Islamic sisters who besides being practicing are capable of delivering Tarbiyyati Bayanaat as well. Tarbiyyati Ijtima’aat should be done through them.

123. The Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ of Islamic sisters will be held via satellite in 106 Kabinat of Pakistan on Monday, 28 Rajab-ul-Murajjab 1436 AH, 18 May 2015, from 10:00am to 1:00pm. This Ijtima’ will be attended by the Islamic sisters of Zayli to Kabinah level, all the teachers and Nazimaat of Jami’a-tul-Madinah for girls, Madrasa-tul-Madinah for girls and elder students.

In this Ijtima’, Nigran-e-Shura will deliver the Sunnah-inspiring Tarbiyyati Bayan on the topic of ‘Faizan-e-Saalihaat’. The arrangement of satellite will be made by Madani Channel Relay Majlis and the rest of the managing arrangements (for example, security matters, water, tents if necessary, cleanliness, etc.) will be carried out by the members of Majlis Madani Work for Islamic Sisters (Kabinah and Kabinat Zimmahdaran); Nigran-e-Kabinah will be responsible for the arrangements etc. of this Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ held in their own Kabinah.

Responsible Islamic sisters should be given the receipts of Madani donations by Majlis Finance.

Have the Madani pearls of departments, progress forms etc., so that those who do not have these things could get them from there.

The Bastah of Maktaba-tul-Madinah with Faizan-e-Ramadan in reasonable numbers should be arranged.

124. ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should train Islamic sisters so that they can get the problems of Zayli level solved through their Mahram etc. from the Nigran Islamic brothers of Zayli Mushawarat. Likewise, area-wise, divisions, Kabinah, Kabinat etc. should get the problems solved from the Nigrans of their own levels. This kind of setup should be made in overseas country as well.

125. The members of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat having the responsibility of countries should make Mushawarat on their countries level which should have the following Islamic sisters: (1) Madani In’amaat Zimmahdar (2) Area-visit Zimmahdar (3) Majlis Contact Zimmahdar. Majlis Overseas will decide whether these Islamic sisters should be taken from Pakistan or from their own countries. This responsibility has been given to member of Shura Abu Shabaan Haji Muhammad Bilal Attari.

126. All the devotees of Rasool should remember the Du’a of Rajab. (It is stated in a Hadees that when the month of Rajab arrives, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would recite the following Du’a:

اَللّٰهُمَّ بَارِكْ لَنَا فِیْ رَجَبٍ وَّ شَعْبَانَ وَ بَلِّغْنَا رَمَضَان

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bestow blessings upon us in Rajab and Sha’ban and take us to Ramadan. (Al Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 85, Hadees 3939)

127. In order to convey your own Tarbiyyat and the message of Dawat-e- Islami all around the world it is necessary to travel with Madani Qafilahs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ 100% Zimmahdaran travel with Madani Qafilah every month for 3 days!

Islamic brothers, who travel overseas countries, no matter how big Zimmahdar they be should make their all schedules as per 3-day Madani Qafilahs.

Ijtima’aat and Madani Mashwarahs should be arranged in these Madani Qafilahs. [The arrangement of Ijtima’ and Madani Mashwarahs in Madani Qafilahs is only for those who travel overseas countries. Bayan or Madani Mashwarahs can be arranged after Salat-ul-‘Isha on the last day (for example, on Sunday).]

If Zimmahdaran travel with 4 Madani Qafilahs in a month, it is excellent.

Travelling with Madani Qafilah will reform your character.

If a VIP travels with a Madani Qafilah, then a senior Zimmahdar should accompany him.

If a VIP is not ready for 3-day Madani Qafilah, so arrangement should be made for as much time as he may give. It is also possible that he should be persuaded to offer Salat-ul-‘Asr with Jama’at with the Islamic brothers of Madani Qafilahs and then to join area-visit for calling people towards

righteousness and after Salat-ul-Maghrib get him to attend the Bayan and then arrange his dinner with the devotees of Rasool of the Madani Qafilah. Meal should be one dish (one kind of food) such as one day Pulao, one day Qaurmah and one day Dal Rice should be arranged.

All the responsible Islamic brothers should travel with Madani Qafilahs at all costs.

Whenever you learn about the arrival of any Madani Qafilah in your city/area, so go to them and spend 1 hour or if not then at least 30 minutes with them.

Responsible Islamic brothers of departments should make their schedule like this that they should travel with the Islamic brothers of different cities, in particular, with the Islamic brothers of their own departments for 3 days and arrange a Madani Mashwarah on the last day after ‘Isha.

If anyone succeeds in persuading at least one Islamic brother to travel with Madani Qafilah, so in my opinion it is more important than to persuade one thousand brothers to attend the weekly Ijtima’, because Madani Qafilahs offer more opportunities for reformation.

128. I’tikaf has a large number of Madani activities.

Would that every member of Shura could observe I’tikaf of the whole Ramadan!

Members of Shura should hold Mashwarah about the I’tikaf of the whole month of Ramadan of Nigran-e-Kabinat.

All the Zimmahdaran are requested to give me the month of Ramadan.

Senior and junior responsible Islamic brothers should give importance to I’tikaf.

The Zimmahdaran who due to making efforts in Madani activities and collecting Madani donations are unable to observe I’tikaf, so they should also give time to I’tikaf and should go outside the Masjid only for Madani activities; they should not go to their homes the whole Ramadan, if there is nothing contrary to Shari’ah.

The list of the members of Shura, Kabinat and the Zimmahdaran of Kabinah level, who are ready to give me the entire month of Ramadan, should be given to me.

The earning of I’tikaf is consumed the whole year (i.e. Islamic brothers are trained in I’tikaf and new Islamic brothers, who associate themselves with the Madani environment, help Madani work to increase the entire year).

129. Whenever you go to meet a VIP, you must have the Madani work of Dawat -e- Islami in your mind and the Majalis of Dawat -e- Islami such as Majlis Reformation for Prisoners, Majlis for Special Islamic Brothers, similarly the number of students and teachers of Jami’aat and Madaris should also be memorized with their expenses. You should be well acquainted with all these things so that the mind of giving Madani donations could be made after introducing Dawat -e- Islami in a good manner.

It is Sunnah to collect donations for Islamic activities.

130. All the responsible Islamic brothers should read the book named ‘ Questions and Answers about Donations ’ in the month of Rajab- ul - Murajjab . The Islamic brothers of Majlis ‘ Ushr & Surrounding Villages must also read the booklet of Maktaba - tul -Madinah named Rulings for ‘ Ushr in the days of ‘ Ushr, though they have already read it 99 times. All the responsible Islamic brothers must read the published booklet of Maktaba - tul -Madinah named ‘ Some Attacks of Satan ’ once in 92 days.

131. Whatever habit you want your Nafs to develop, it will become habitual of it. Teach your Nafs to bear pains.

132. The way Madani work is carried out by the poor and middle class Islamic brothers, normally the rich do not carry out in the same way. Make them happy. Adopt their style if you want to please them. Responsible Islamic brothers should wear simple dress. Dignity lies in simplicity and I like simplicity.

133. Instead of shaping your personality improve the system; we instead of shaping our personality have to increase the Madani work of Dawat -e- Islami .

134. One way of remaining steadfast in Madani environment is this that some Madani work should be taken as a responsibility, thus trap yourself in Madani net.

135. If you weep or make others weep with sincerity, then it is a great privilege.

136. Those who make intentions should be followed up.

137. Na’at reciters are VIPs; make them Zimmahdar and preachers after associating them to the Madani environment of Dawat -e- Islami . All the responsible Islamic brothers should make one Qaari Sahib and one Na’at reciter a preacher. In my opinion, making individual effort upon a Na’at reciter to associate him practically with the Madani environment is like associating 1200 Islamic brothers with Madani environment.

138. Individual efforts are far more powerful than collective efforts.

139. I make my effort to persuade the students of Daura -e- Hadees (final year) and Saabi’ah (seventh year) to attend Madani Muzakarah .

140. Dawat -e- Islami is a faith-saving and Masjid-filling movement.

141. Keep fearing the secret plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For many years, from time to time, Madani Mashwarahs of the Markazi Majlis -e- Shura of Dawat -e- Islami have been held and continue for many days in the ‘ Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan -e-Madinah, Madina-tul- Murshid, Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi); whatever is decided after mutual Mushawarat, is written briefly and then with necessary amendment and deduction is sent to the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat -e- Islami . After gaining massive advantages from these Madani pearls not only implement them in your countries, divisions, cities, and departments, but also give us your valuable suggestions. Please, send these Madani pearls within 7 days to the concerned responsible Islamic brothers and receive its confirmation. Further, inform your Nigran as well.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to be the slaves of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and remain steadfast with sincerity and safety on Dawat-e-Islami.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Schedule of coming Madani Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

#

1436 AH

2015 AD

Day

Attendees

1.

10 Shawwal

27 July

Monday

Members of Shura

2.

11 Shawwal

28 July

Tuesday

Members of Shura and Nigran-e-Kabinat

3.

12 Shawwal

29 July

Wednesday

Same

Mail Date:

4 Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, 1436 AH (May 23, 2015)

