اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Blessings of Sadaqah and the Best Sadaqat

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘On the Day of Judgement, there will be no shade except the shade of the Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three [categories of] people will be under the shade of the Throne.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who will they be?’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The one who removes a worry of my Ummati (follower); the one who revives my Sunnah; and the one who recites Salat abundantly upon me.’ (Bistan-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 260, 261, Raqm 17)

اپنے خَطا واروں کو اپنے ہی دامَن میں لو کون کرے یہ بَھلا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Elaborating on this part, ‘ to Allah belongs the heritage of the Heavens and the earth altogether ’ Sadr-ul-Afaadil ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: You will die and wealth will remain in His possession and you will not get the reward of not spending, and if you spend in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will get reward.

(Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 27, Surah Al-Hadeed, Taht-al-Ayah 10)

Similarly, at another place to persuade us to give Sadaqah, it has been stated:

لَنۡ تَنَا لُو ا الۡبِرَّ حَتّٰی تُنۡفِقُوۡ ا مِمَّا تُحِبُّوۡنَ ۬ؕ

وَ مَا تُنۡفِقُوۡ ا مِنۡ شَیۡ ءٍ فَاِنَّ اللّٰہَ بِہٖ عَلِیۡمٌ ﴿۹۲﴾

(Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, verse 92)

Commenting on the above-mentioned verse, Sadr-ul-Afaadil ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said, ‘Spending here refers to the general spending of all Sadaqat, regardless of whether they are obligatory or voluntary. It is a saying of Hassan that the possession, which Muslims like, and spend for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in His path, is also included in this verse, even if it is only a date. (Sayyiduna) ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) used to purchase sacks of sugar to give in Sadaqah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked, ‘Why don’t you give its value in Sadaqah’? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘I like sugar; so I want to spend the thing most liked to me in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Tafseer Madarik, pp. 172)

میں سب دولت راہِ حق میں لُٹا دوں شہا ایسا مجھے جذبہ عطا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

has run short in my journey and there is none to take me to my destination but I do hope in the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and I need your help. For the sake of the One Who has blessed you with a beautiful skin, give me a camel so that I may get to my destination.’ Listening to this, he refused and said, ‘I have already got many responsibilities and rights.’ The angel then said, ‘I do know you. Are you not the one who was suffering from leprosy? People used to detest you and you were a poor and needy person. Did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ not grant you wealth?’ He replied, ‘I have inherited all of this wealth from my forefathers.’ The angel replied, ‘If you are a liar, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ turn you back into what you were.’

The angel then came to the one who was bald-headed and had the same conversation to him, he also responded in the same manner. The angel said, ‘If you are a liar, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ turn you back in the condition that you were before.’

And then the angel came to the blind person and said, ‘I am a poor person and a traveller. My provisions are finished. In this state I cannot get to my destination but I have hope in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and after Him you are my best hope. For the sake of the One Who has blessed you with eyesight, I beg you to give me a goat so that I may get to my destination.’ He replied, ‘I was blind and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted me sight. I was poor, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made me rich. You may take whatever you need from my wealth. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, however much you want you may take for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; I will not stop you.’ Upon hearing this, the angel said, ‘keep what you have (in your possession). Actually, you three were put to a test and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is well pleased with you and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is displeased with both of your friends (i.e. leper and the bald person).’ (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, pp. 2/463, Hadees 3464)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable not only has it been learnt that helping the needy and fulfilling their needs with the wealth that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted us, is a source of Allah’s pleasure, but it has also been learnt that if someone does not give Sadaqah and charity, in particular, his Wajib Sadaqat such as Zakah and Fitrah etc. despite having the ability to do so, then he indeed incurs Allah’s displeasure and is ungrateful to His

blessings. Therefore, besides giving Wajib Sadaqat, we should also give Nafl Sadaqah (charity) as much as possible.

دولتِ دُنیا سے بے رَغبت مجھے کر دیجئے

میری حاجت سے مجھے زائد نہ کرنا مالدار

Dear Islamic brothers! May I devote my life to the Madani thought of Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه that he is humbly saying in the court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Make me dislike the wealth of this world and do not grant me more than my needs.’ سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, now we also submit our request in the court of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: O Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

دولتِ دُنیا سے بے رَغبت مجھے کر دیجئے

میری حاجت سے مجھے زائد نہ کرنا مالدار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! No matter how economically advanced a country is, it still cannot completely eradicate poverty, as there are so many people who still live in poverty due to various reasons. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has entrusted the wealthy and prosperous people with the responsibility to satisfy the needs of such poor people. Therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Zakah obligatory upon the wealthy people so that they may help those who are poor through their Zakah and for wealth to circulate amongst the poor instead of restricting it to just a few elite people; it brings a balance in the economic condition of the people living in a society. Remember! If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wanted, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would have made everybody rich and none would be poor, but His Divine Will, has made some people rich and others poor, so that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ may test the rich ones by his wealth and the poor by his poverty as it is stated in the Glorious Quran:

وَ ہُوَ ا لَّذِیۡ جَعَلَکُمۡ خَلٰٓئِفَ ا لۡاَ رۡضِ

وَ رَ فَعَ بَعۡضَکُمۡ فَوۡقَ بَعۡضٍ دَ رَجٰتٍ لِّیَبۡلُوَکُمۡ فِیۡ مَاۤ اٰ تٰکُمۡ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And it is He who has made you vicegerents (successors) in the earth and ranked some of you high above others, in order that He may test you with what He has bestowed upon you.

(Part 8, Surah Al- An’aam, verse 165)

Regarding this verse Sadr- ul - Afaadil ‘ Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: i.e., He makes you undergo tests and trials and observes how grateful you are after gaining a high status, blessings and wealth and how you treat one another.

(Khazaain-ul -‘ Irfan, part 8, Taht -al-Ayah 165, pp. 285)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed verse and its commentary, it has become obvious that this world is a home of tests and trials; here some are being tested with blessings and bestowals, and some are being tested after depriving them, they receive blessings to see if they will be grateful or not, and if blessings are not granted, then who remains patient or not. Therefore, by being patient and thankful in every circumstance, we should cheerfully give lots of Sadaqat besides acting upon Shar’i rulings and remain busy in accumulating the treasure of rewards for the Hereafter. At many places in the Holy Quran, we have been motivated to give Sadaqah . It is stated in verse 10 of Surah Al- Hadeed, part 27:

وَ مَا لَکُمۡ اَ لَّا تُنۡفِقُوۡ ا فِیۡ سَبِیۡلِ اللہِ وَ لِلہِ مِیۡرَ اثُ السَّمٰوٰ تِ وَ الۡاَرۡضِ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And what is to you, that you spend not in the way of Allah, whereas to Allah belongs the heritage of the Heavens and the earth altogether. (Part 27, Surah Al- Hadeed, verse 10)

Elaborating on this part, ‘ to Allah belongs the heritage of the Heavens and the earth altogether ’ Sadr- ul - Afaadil ‘ Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: You will die and wealth will remain in His possession and you will not get the reward of not spending, and if you spend in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will get reward.

(Khazaain-ul -‘ Irfan, part 27, Surah Al- Hadeed, Taht -al-Ayah 10)

Similarly, at another place to persuade us to give Sadaqah, it has been stated:

لَنۡ تَنَا لُو ا الۡبِرَّ حَتّٰی تُنۡفِقُوۡ ا مِمَّا تُحِبُّوۡنَ ۬ؕ

وَ مَا تُنۡفِقُوۡ ا مِنۡ شَیۡ ءٍ فَاِنَّ اللہَ بِہٖ عَلِیۡمٌ ﴿۹۲﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: You shall never attain virtue until you spend in Allah’s cause the things you love; and Allah is Aware of whatever you spend.

(Part 4, Surah Aal -e-‘Imran, verse 92)

Commenting on the above-mentioned verse, Sadr- ul - Afaadil ‘ Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said, ‘Spending here refers to the general spending of all Sadaqat, regardless of whether they are obligatory or voluntary. It is a saying of Hassan that the possession, which Muslims like, and spend for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in His path, is also included in this verse, even if it is only a date. (Sayyiduna) ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘ Azeez (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) used to purchase sacks of sugar to give in Sadaqah . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked, ‘Why don’t you give its value in Sadaqah ’? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘I like sugar; so I want to spend the thing most liked to me in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Tafseer Madarik, pp. 172)

میں سب دولت راہِ حق میں لُٹا دوں شہا ایسا مجھے جذبہ عطا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself motivates us to spend the things we like most in His way. Therefore, we should generously give Sadaqah instead of being stingy. As we all know that whatever we possess, is given to us by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . So spending for His pleasure, what He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given us will surely increase His blessings upon us; and on the contrary, despite having the ability, if we do not give Sadaqah, this could be a cause of losing blessings.

Sayyidatuna ‘Asma Bint Abu Bakr رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘Do not withhold, otherwise it will be withheld from you as well.’

(Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-uz-Zakah, vol. 1, pp. 483, Hadees 1433)

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed, wealth is a great blessing from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, therefore, whoever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed with the treasure of wealth should value this blessing and should not save it unnecessarily, nor should he use it in useless activities. He should spend it on his parents, wife, children and siblings, relatives, the poor and needy in a permissible way and should try to earn the rewards of giving Sadaqah as much as possible, because the person who sincerely spends his wealth in virtuous acts will improve his life in this world and in the Hereafter. Such a person becomes a beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he becomes deserving of rewards in the Hereafter. The persuasions and excellences of giving Sadaqah have also been mentioned at many places in the blessed Ahadees as well. To motivate us, let’s listen to 5 blessed Ahadees:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: O son of Aadam! Deposit something to me out of your treasure, it will neither burn, sink, nor be stolen. I will give you a full return at that time when you will be very needy of it.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 211, Hadees 3342)

2. بَاكِرُوۡا بِالصَّدَقَةِ فَاِنَّ الۡبَلآءَ لَا يَتَخَطَّي الصَّدَقَةَ: Start your morning with Sadaqah because trouble does not step approach due to giving Sadaqah.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 214, Hadees 3353)

1. اِنَّ صَدَقَةَ الۡمُسۡلِمِ تَزِيۡدُ فِي الۡعُمۡرِ وَ تَمۡنَعُ مِيۡتَةَ السُّوۡءِ وَ يُذۡهِبُ اللّٰهُ الۡكِبۡرَ وَالۡفَخۡرَ: Indeed, the Sadaqah of a Muslim increases his life and rids him of a bad death and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (through its blessings) removes arrogance and boasting (a bad habit of talking proudly about your own abilities and of feeling pride). (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 284, Hadees 4609)

2. اِنَّ الصَّدَقَةَ لَتُطۡفِئُ عَنۡ اَهۡلِهَا حَرَّ الۡقُبُوۡرِ وَ اِنَّمَا يَسۡتَظِلُّ الۡمُؤۡمِنُ يَوۡمَ الۡقِيَامَةِ فِيۡ ظِلِّ صَدَقَتِه: Certainly, Sadaqah protects the giver of Sadaqah from the heat of the grave and certainly a Muslim will be under the shadow of his Sadaqah on the Day of Resurrection. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 212, Hadees 3347)

3. اِنَّهَا حِجَابٌ مِّنَ النَّارِ لِمَنِ احۡتَسَبَهَا يَبۡتَغِيۡ بِهَا وَجۡهَ اللّٰهِ: One who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that Sadaqah becomes a shield for him against Hell. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 286, Hadees 4617)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sadaqah prevents disasters and afflictions; it increases one’s life; it removes a bad death; Sadaqah removes arrogance and pride; it removes the heat of the grave; Sadaqah will be a shadow on the Day of Judgement and it will save us from the torment of Hell.

دے نَزع و قبر و حشر میں ہر جا اَمان اور

دوزخ کی آگ سے بچا یا ربِّ مُصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors and Islamic saints had such a profound passion for giving Sadaqah that sometimes these pious ones would sacrifice their own needs for the sake of their Muslim brothers. Let’s listen to a great incident for to persuade us.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: Once a poor man begged for some food, she was fasting and had nothing to break her fast with (Iftar) except one Roti (a flat round bread). She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا told her maid to give him that Roti. The maid said, ‘If I give him the Roti, there will be nothing left for your Iftar.’ Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘Give him that loaf of bread.’ The maid replied, ‘I have given him that loaf of bread.’ Before the evening approached, a person from the Ahl-e-Bayt (household of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) or somebody else who used to send gifts, sent meat of a nanny goat covered in a cloth. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا called me and said, ‘Eat from this, it is better than your bread.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 620/260, Hadees 3482)

Dear Islamic brothers! This was the blessed conduct of the beloveds ones of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They would give Sadaqah of whatever was available; therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted them great rewards, due to their unparalleled trust in Him.

On page 513 of his famous book ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ [Blessings of Sunnah] Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated a parable:, Sayyiduna Abu Ja’far Bin Khattab عَـلَیۡهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الـتَّـوَّاب who was an ‘Abdaal (highest level in the ranks of Sufism) of his time, has stated: Once a beggar came to my doorstep and asked for help. I asked my wife if there was anything to give him. She replied that she only had four eggs. I asked her to give them to the beggar. She did and the beggar left with those eggs. After some time, a friend of mine sent me a basket full of eggs. I asked my wife as to how many eggs were there in the basket. She replied that there were 30 eggs. I asked, ‘You gave four eggs to the beggar, so according to which calculation have we received these 30 eggs?’ She replied, ‘Actually there are 30 unbroken eggs and 10 broken ones.’

Elaborating on this parable, Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Allamah Yafi’ee Yemeni عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘Out of the [four] eggs that were given to the beggar, one was broken and 3 were unbroken. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gave 10 in return for each of those eggs; the broken eggs for the broken one, and the unbroken eggs for the unbroken ones.’ (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 274)

میں سب دولت راہِ حق میں لُٹا دوں شہا ایسا مجھے جذبہ عطا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! For more valuable information about Sadaqah, a 415-page book called ‘ Ziya-e-Sadaqat ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, should be read; this book has 19 chapters containing detailed information on various topics related to Sadaqah, such as, the meaning of Sadaqah and its kinds, Bayan of Fard Zakah, who should be given Zakah, virtues of having kind relationship with relatives, how is it to accumulate wealth? And condemnation of stinginess etc., plenty of information will be acquired by studying this book, therefore, obtain this book from a Maktaba-tul-Madinah stall, and not only read it yourself but also persuade other Islamic brothers to read it. Furthermore, it will be very effective to read the booklet of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat named ‘Fish of Madinah’ and the published booklet of Maktaba-tul-Madinah named ‘Rewards of Giving Sadaqah’ . This book can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors and Islamic saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی not only gave abundant Sadaqah themselves but they also used to persuade other people to carry out this good deed. Regarding this, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings:

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated, ‘If you obtain worldly wealth, spend some of it, because by spending it will not decrease even if you begin to lose it, still spend some of it as it is not supposed to remain with you.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 738)

مجھ کو دُنیا کی دولت نہ زَر چاہئے شاہِ کوثر کی میٹھی نظر چاہئے

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked, ‘What is generosity?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Spending wealth generously for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked another question, ‘What is cautiousness?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Restricting wealth for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was then asked, ‘What is excessive spending?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Spending wealth for the desire of possessing power.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 739)

Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘Many sinners of the religion (Islam) and many people who are miserable and helpless in their life will enter Jannah only due to their generosity.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 740)

بِلا حساب ہو جنّت میں داخلہ یا ربّ پڑوس خُلد میں سَروَر کا ہو عطا یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Under the pretext of being needy, some people become lazy and stingy in giving Sadaqah and start making lots of complaints when they are asked about their condition. Remember! Giving Sadaqah does not reduce wealth nor is there any condition for giving something in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘ مَا نَقَصَ مَالٌ مِنۡ صَدَقَ ةٍ ’ Sadaqah does not reduce wealth. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 619, Hadees 2270)

At another place it has been stated: ‘ فَاتَّقُوا النَّارَ وَلَوۡ بِشِقِّ تَمۡرَةٍ ’ i.e. prevent from the fire, even with a piece of date. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 257, Hadees 6540)

This blessed Hadees contains comfort for those who, despite facing financial troubles give Sadaqah and charity, but due to giving minor things in Sadaqah they become sad, though whether Sadaqah is large or small if it is given out of Halal wealth, with sincerity, it certainly brings great rewards.

The respectable father of Ala Hadrat, Maulana Mufti Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Do not consider even a little thing as insignificant when giving Sadaqah, though you have the ability to give more; a man intends to give Sadaqah, but Satan prevents him, the Nafs interferes, not only one Satan, but 70 Satans prevent him from giving Sadaqah.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: A person takes out his Sadaqah after tearing the jaws of 70 Satans. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 282, Hadees 4601) So in this case, even if he gives a small amount of Sadaqah he should think of it as insignificant, because even a little thing may satisfy the need of a needy person to some extent. Furthermore, it may also reduce a person’s habit of being stingy to some extent. (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 276)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the world is mortal and to develop attachment to it is sheer foolishness as each of us has to die one day. Therefore, wisdom is that a person should start performing those deeds that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have mentioned; he should perform Divine worship abundantly, live a life conforming to the Sunnah, earn Halal livelihood as per his need, he should not feel attached to his wealth at all, he should absolutely avoid earning Haraam wealth, and should always earn only Halal. He should also spend this Halal wealth on his permissible needs and he should also give a lot of Sadaqah out of this Halal wealth in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to help the poor, the needy, his close relatives and Islamic students; he should consider their troubles to be his own troubles and try to receive their Du’as.

But regretfully! Nowadays instead of helping the poor and spending money for the righteous acts by giving Sadaqah, huge amounts of money is spent on useless and unnecessary activities, and no attention is paid to the fact that

there are many rejected people of this society around us who neither have proper shelters, nor proper clothing, nor do they have sufficient food to eat. Therefore, we should also take care of the needs of such white-collar people as much as possible and we should treat them well.

The Prophet of Ra h mah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes three people enter Paradise (by virtue of) a morsel of bread and a handful of dates or anything except them which benefits a poor [Miskeen] person. (1) the owner of the house who orders it; (2) his wife who prepares it, and (3) and the servant who goes to give it to the poor [Miskeen].’ The Noble Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said, ‘All praises are for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has not left out even our servants [i.e. they are also made to enter Paradise due to participating according to their ability and conveying the Sadaqah to the poor].’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 89, Hadees 5309)

Dear Islamic brothers! Many a times it also happens that we financially help ordinary poor people a lot, and also wholeheartedly take part in virtuous acts, but we forget our own relatives. They must also be remembered; they should be helped in a very nice manner without destroying their self-respect. In fact, they should be preferred first for help.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! By associating yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, take part practically in various Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s sinful age, the global and non-political movement of Dawat-e-Islami is providing us Sunnah-inspiring pure environment. Having associated themselves with this Madani environment a large number of sinful people, by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, were able to sincerely repent of their sins and have then started offering Salah regularly and acted upon the Sunnah and are now living lives as practising Muslims with a good character. Now let’s listen to a Madani parable of a lover of the Beloved Rasool, who is accumulating the treasure of good deeds after being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and being occupied with Madani activities.

A young Islamic brother from Lines Area, Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi has stated: In my early life, I was a modern guy who did not even offer Salah. I was wasting the precious moments of my life in heedlessness and sins. In the month of Ramadan 1423 AH, by making individual efforts, an Islamic brother persuaded me to take part in the Sunnah-Inspiring collective I’tikaf being held in Faizan-e-Raza Masjid (Lines Area). I agreed to take part in the I’tikaf and sought permission from my family and then I did I’tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan. During the ten days of the I’tikaf I gained many blessings in the company of lovers of the Beloved Rasool and I made a firm intention to offer Salah steadfastly for the rest of my life. Apart from repenting of other sins, I repented of the sin of shaving my beard as well. I began to wear a green turban and made the intention to wear clothing according to the Sunnah.

On the second day of Eid, I travelled with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah of lovers of the Beloved Rasool. My love for Dawat-e-Islami intensified due to the blessings of this journey. Now, I wish I remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami until my death. I am no longer fond of fashion. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The company of lovers of the Beloved Rasool during the I’tikaf and journey with the Madani Qafilah completely changed my life. Besides this, by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at present I am serving the Sunnah in my area as the responsible person for the Madani In’amaat.

فضلِ ربّ سے گناہوں کی عادت چُھٹے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

نیکیوں کا تمھیں خوب جذبہ ملے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Mentioning the importance and persuasion for giving Sadaqah to relatives, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ الصَّدَقَ ةَ عَلٰي ذِيۡ قَرَابَ ةٍ يُضَعَّفُ اَجۡرُهَا مَرَّتَيۡنِ ’, i.e. undoubtedly the reward for giving Sadaqah to relatives is given two times more.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 206, Hadees 7834)

In order to persuade us, let us listen to two faith-refreshing parables consisting of the blessings of Sadaqah and charity and receive Madani pearls of advice from them:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated: A hermit named ‘Abdullah was occupied in worship for 60 years. He then committed sins for 6 nights being involved in the seduction of a woman. When he felt ashamed of his sins, he came running towards a Masjid where he found three hungry people; he gave one loaf of bread to them as Sadaqah and passed away. For weighing his deeds, the worship of 60 years was placed on one scale and on the second scale the sins of 6 days were placed; his sins outweighed the worship, but when the loaf of bread, which he gave in Sadaqah, was placed, it overcame the sins. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 262, Hadees 3488)

یا خدا! رحمت تِری حاوی ہے تیرے قَہر پر

فضل و رحمت کے سہارے جی رہا بدکار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is stated on page 197 of ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat (part 2) a 413-page book, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami that Sayyiduna Saalim Abu Ja’ad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: A quarrelsome person of Sayyiduna Saalih’s nation would annoy people a lot. When people got sick of his annoyance, they humbly requested Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, ‘Huzoor! Put a curse on that person; we have become fed up with him.’ Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘Go! اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will be safe from his mischief,’ and they went away.

Every day, that person used to cut and bring sticks from the jungle in order to sell them to manage his livelihood for himself and his family. As usual, once he went to the jungle with two loaves of bread— he ate one and the other he

gave in Sadaqah. After cutting the sticks he returned home safe and sound. When people saw him approaching safe and sound, they humbly said to Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, ‘Huzoor! That person is safe and sound; until now no disaster has befallen him.’ Having called that person he عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام said, ‘O young man! What good deed have you performed today?’ He replied, ‘Today as usual, when I went to the jungle, I had two loaves of bread with me, I ate one and gave the other in Sadaqah; besides this I do not remember any other good deed.’ He عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام said, ‘Untie the bundle of sticks!’ When it was untied, a huge venomous black python, like a trunk of date palm, was found inside. Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘O person! You have been saved from this dangerous python because of that bread you gave in Sadaqah.’ (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 2, pp. 197)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Having heard these parables, it is possible that this evil thought may cross somebody’s mind that ‘we can now hurt the feelings of Muslims’, because whatever we like we may do, Sadaqah will erase all the sins.’ Undoubtedly, this is a brutal attack of Satan because if freedom is given to commit these sins, then nobody’s wealth nor honour will be safe in the society and our society will become like a ‘jungle of beasts’. Therefore, if a person troubles a Muslim and then convinces himself by giving Sadaqah and feels that now he will be forgiven, then it is certainly the boldness of an extreme level. Such people should have fear of Allah’s hidden plan. About tormenting Muslims’ hearts, strong admonitions have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees:

Dear Islamic brothers! On page 444 of his book ‘ Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society ’, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated that undoubtedly, to look down upon a Muslim or to make fun of him and to hurt his feelings are Haraam and acts leading to Hell.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: مَنۡ اٰذَى مُسۡلِمًا فَقَدۡ اٰذَانِىۡ وَمَنۡ اٰذَانِىۡ فَقَدۡ اٰذَى اللّٰه ‘Whoever hurts a Muslim, hurts me, and whoever hurts me, hurts Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 2, pp. 387, Hadees 3607)

Anyway, It is the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that if He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ objects to only one of our sins and if He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills, so by virtue of His blessing and grace He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows forgiveness upon us on the strength of any one of our good deeds. We should beg for safety from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeping in mind the hope for His mercy along with the fear of His hidden plans. Furthermore, we should avoid committing sins on the strength of good deeds and Sadaqah or repentance in future.

On page 376 of Noor-ul-‘Irfan regarding verse 9 of Surah Yusuf, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is Kufr to commit a sin with the intention of making repentance. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further explained this in another place: To commit a sin with the intention of making repentance is Kufr, that is to say, what is the harm of the sin, I will repent for it tomorrow; this is not repentance, rather to make fun of the Shari’ah and to have no fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and both these things are (Kufr) unbelief. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 360)

Shaykh Ibn-e-‘Abbaad Shaazili رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: People having mystic knowledge said that the false hope which makes a person arrogant and heedless of his deeds, bold on committing sins, is in fact not really hope, but it is a deception of Satan. Likewise, Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Hoping for Allah’s mercy by disobeying His commandments is ignorance and foolishness.’ (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 4, pp. 251-252)

آہ! طُغیانیاں گناہوں کی پار نیّا مِری لگا یا ربّ

نفس و شیطان ہو گئے غالب اِن کے چُنگل سے تُو چُھڑا یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers, unfortunately nowadays, due to a lack of Islamic knowledge and worldliness, many Muslims avoid complying with the worship of giving ‘Ushr and Zakah. Therefore, keeping in mind the importance and significance of ‘Ushr’ and well-wishing for Muslims to developing a sense of this financial worship and to protect them from the sin of not paying ‘Ushr and Zakah, Majlis ‘Ushr and Surrounding Villages’ has been established by Dawat-e-Islami, the global non-political movement of preaching the Quran and Sunnah.

‘Ushr, in fact, is a ‘ زَكٰوةُ الۡاَرۡض ’, Zakah of the land . It is obligatory to give one- tenth or sometimes one-twentieth of cultivated lands, in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . So during the days of ‘Ushr, the virtues of spending in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should be mentioned in the weekly and other Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and they should be persuaded to give and collect ‘Ushr for Dawat-e-Islami.

In order to receive ‘Ushr, every now and then, the responsible Islamic brothers of this department contact farmers, landlords and the owners of orchards by making their individual efforts. Ijtima’aat are also arranged for farmers. The booklet named ‘Ruling on Ushr’ is also distributed among them to persuade them to pay their ‘Ushr.

For information about ‘Ushr, landlords in particular, should study the 48-page booklets ‘Rulings on Ushr’ and ‘ Shar’i Precautions for Making Donations ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. They should seek guidance from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat for paying Zakah of their crops according to the Shari’ah.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to perform good deeds, to avoid committing sins, to develop the passion for giving Sadaqah (charity) in the heart and to achieve success in this world and the Hereafter, always associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, and to remain steadfast in performing good deeds, wholeheartedly participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

Yaum-e-Taateel I’tikaf is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Therefore, all the Islamic brothers are requested to observe Yaum-e-Taateel I’tikaf to receive rewards.

Dear Islamic brothers! To continue sitting in a Masjid for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also a great worship which is called I’tikaf. I’tikaf is observed either on Friday or on Sunday after Fajr to Friday Salah or according to the occasion, from ‘Asr to Maghrib in new and weak areas of the city, as well as villages and rural areas, in order to associate the people with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

If the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah join the Islamic brothers, who go to surrounding areas/villages from other areas to observe I’tikaf during a holiday’, it will be excellent. The students, who go to a village from Jami’a-tul-Madinah after Fajr Salah, should be accompanied by a teacher.

First of all, the Halqahs of teaching and learning Sunan and Du’as must arranged. An area visit for calling people towards righteousness should be made before the Friday Salah. After the Friday Salah, a Madani Halqah of local people must be arranged and after the ‘Asr Bayan, they should return.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever Sadaqah and charity are discussed, their excellence is also mentioned, however the idea usually enters our minds that Sadaqat refers to possessions and these virtues are also related to this Sadaqah. As a matter of fact, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned

those Sadaqat for which, without spending any possessions or wealth, the virtues of Sadaqah can still be attained. Similarly, there are some Sadaqat which have more rewards than others. Financial Sadaqat and the Sadaqat for which money is not spent are also included in these superior Sadaqat. Let us firstly listen to those Sadaqat for which money is not spent:

§ Smiling at your fellow Muslim, is a Sadaqah.

§ The act of calling towards righteousness and preventing from evil, is a Sadaqah .

§ Guiding a person who has lost his way, is a Sadaqah.

§ Helping a weak-sighted (or blind) person is a Sadaqah.

§ Removing a stone, thorn or bone from the pathway, is a Sadaqah.

§ Pouring water from your bucket into the bucket of your brother is a Sadaqah. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 1963)

§ Lending money is a Sadaqah. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 284, Hadees 3563)

§ Abstaining from creating troubles is a Sadaqah.

§ Doing justice between two people, helping someone mount an animal, or helping someone pick up his luggage, speaking good, walking for offering Salah and removing a painful thing from the pathway, are all Sadaqah.

§ Planting a tree or ploughing a field out of which a person, bird or an animal eats from, is also a Sadaqah.

Let’s listen about those Sadaqat which are declared superior by our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that is to say, if a Muslim gives these types of Sadaqat, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will earn the reward of a superior Sadaqah. Some of them are presented below:

Superior Sadaqat

§ A poor person who gives Sadaqah, according to his financial ability.

(Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 179, Hadees 1677)

§ To give Sadaqah whilst someone is healthy, to give Sadaqah despite being greedy and to give Sadaqah despite the fear of being poor are best Sadaqat. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 234, Hadees 2748)

§ Likewise, a Muslim’s act of gaining Islamic knowledge and then imparting it to his Islamic brother, is also a superior Sadaqah.

(Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 158, Raqm 243)

§ To give food to a hungry person until he is full

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 217, Hadees 3367)

§ To give Sadaqah in Ramadan (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 34, Hadees 1545)

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 1515)

§ To make reconciliation between angry Muslims.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 389, Hadees 4314)

§ To get a prisoner released by making a permissible recommendation for him. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 34, Hadees 7682)

§ To prevent someone’s blood from being spilled, to do a favour for any Muslim brother, and to talk about good things, are all also regarded as the best Sadaqat. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 125, Hadees 7684)

In the light of different blessed Ahadees, all these acts are included in best Sadaqat. Some of them are related to money and goods and some are not in which without spending money or goods one can receive the reward of giving Sadaqah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami – the global & non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah is a movement that fills the Masjid with worshippers, it is actively working with almost 102 departments in order to preach Islam to call people towards righteousness. In this alarming era, when evil forces from all over the world are busy trying to mislead and destroy the faith of Muslims with all their strength, Dawat-e-Islami has become a ray of hope for the Muslims. To help this Ummah by globally spreading the teachings of the Glorious Quran and Blessed Sunnah, filling the hearts of Muslims and awakening them with the brightness of the Holy Quran, the Madani movement Dawat-e-Islami has established hundreds of Madaris with the name of ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah’ for Madani children (boys and girls) in many countries and cities. To train Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters, Jami’aat by the name of Jami’a-tul-Madinah have been established in which, without exaggeration, thousands of male and female students are receiving the education of Quran and Sunnah for free. In these Jami’aat, in addition to Quran and Islamic knowledge students are especially given Shar’i and moral education, so that after they complete their studies, these true builders of the nation may play their roles to reform the society and they may live their lives according to the Madani aim of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat: ‘I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

Remember! These Madaris-ul-Madinah and Jami’a-tul-Madinah, which are run by Dawat-e-Islami, have great importance from the point of view of Islamic virtues. Therefore, millions are spent every year to maintain these Madaris-ul-Madinah and Jami’aat-ul-Madinah. For this purpose, from time to time through Madani Channel, a telethon (campaign to raise Madani donations) is also broadcasted, therefore, you too are requested to support these initiatives and persuade your relatives, neighbours and friends by making individual efforts upon them to cooperate for attaining the blessings of these Islamic students and to strengthen the system of Madaris-ul-Madinah and Jami’a-tul-Madinah and for the progress of Dawat-e-Islami through your Zakah, Fitrah, Sadaqat and charity, Nafl donations and ‘Ushr etc. If someone’s Madani mind is made by our individual efforts and he gives his Zakah, Fitrah, Sadaqat and charity, Nafl donations or ‘Ushr etc. to Dawat-e-Islami, then it can become a source of permanent rewards for us.

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are privileged to financially assist the Madani Activities of Dawat-e-Islami, the global & non-political movement which fills the Masajid and preaches the Quran and Sunnah. Perhaps the question may enter our minds as to how can I make my contribution to the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami. Let me mention a very easy method through which even a very poor person can succeed in making his contribution to the Madani donations of Dawat-e-Islami. How can that be achieved? It is through the financial support with the Madani Donation Box.

‘Majlis Madani Donation Box’ (a department of Dawat-e-Islami) has introduced a box which can be placed in homes, shops, factories, markets, shopping malls, medical stores and offices etc., so that we may put something in it every day according to our convenience. By making individual efforts with good intentions, shopkeepers should also persuade their customers to make their contribution by telling them about the virtues of spending money or possessions in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It is humbly advised that we specify a fixed amount every day, even it is a little. We should then submit these Madani donations as per the fixed method of Majlis Madani Donation Box. The boxes that are placed at shops etc. is called a ‘Madani Donation Box’ and the boxes that are placed in homes is called a ‘Household Sadaqah Box’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اِنَّ الدَّالَ عَلَي الۡخَيۡرِ كَفَاعِلِه ’ i.e. Indeed the one guiding [others] towards a good deed is like one who performs the good deed. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 305, Hadees 2679)

A renowned commentator, a great sage of the Ummah, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـمَنَّانْ has stated: The one who performs a good deed, one motivating others to perform it, one informing others of it and one advising to do it, are all deserving of reward. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 1, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan we have been privileged to hear about the virtues of Sadaqah.

§ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah and charity, one’s possession will be protected from burning, sinking and being stolen.

§ By virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah and charity, sustenance increases.

§ By virtue of the blessing of giving Sadaqah and charity, one can get rid of misfortunes, calamities and a bad death. Furthermore, he will get rid of the spiritual diseases like boasting and pride.

§ Sadaqah protects one from the heat of the grave, increases one’s age, frees one from Hell and is the most effective source of achieving closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and guidance towards Heaven.

Therefore, we too should sincerely give our favourite things in Sadaqah in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ according to our financial ability, in order to earn rewards and we must always abstain from stinginess before we are unable to give Sadaqah when we want to, due to not giving Sadaqah when we had the financial ability and by not doing other good deeds or death approaches us and we have only regret. It has also been learnt that Sadaqah is not only related to financial assistance, but the reward of Sadaqah can be earned without spending money or possessions, just by smiling at a fellow Muslim, presenting the call towards righteousness, preventing (Muslims) from evil deeds, removing harmful things from the pathway and reconciling Muslims etc. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us, from time to time, to give Sadaqah happily in His way and to perform good deeds as well.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunnahs and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said,

‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, verse 37:

وَ لَا تَمۡشِ فِی الۡاَرۡضِ مَـرَ حًا ۚ

اِنَّکَ لَنۡ تَخۡرِقَ الۡاَرۡضَ وَ لَنۡ تَبۡلُغَ الۡجِبَالَ طُوۡلًا ﴿۳۷﴾

And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you achieve height of the mountains.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 15, Bani Israel, verse 37)

2. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking arrogantly]. He was sunk into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

3. When the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

4. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in surprise, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill.

5. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered.

6. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise.

7. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

8. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar -e- Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat -e- Islami . One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat -e- Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afzal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Prophet ﷺ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become obligatory for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and the magnificent ‘Arsh.

In the weekly congregation in the blessed month of Rajab-ul-Murajjab, attendees should be made to recite the following supplication:

Reciting following supplication in the blessed month of Rajab is a Sunnah act; the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to recite the following supplication when the blessed month of Rajab would commence:

اَللّٰهُمَّ بَارِكْ لَنَا فِیْ رَجَبٍ وَّ شَعْبَانَ وَ بَلِّغْنَا رَمَضَان

Translation: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Descend your Blessing upon us in the [blessed] months of Rajab and Sha’ban, and make us reach Ramadan.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 85, Hadees 3939)

