اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Hard-Heartedness

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When the day of Thursday arrives, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends angels who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They record those who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday). (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 1, pp. 184, Hadees 688)

یا نبی! تجھ پہ لاکھوں دُرُود و سلام اِس پہ ہے ناز مجھ کو ہُوں تیرا غلام

اپنی رحمت سے تُو شاہِ خَیرُ الاَنام مجھ سے عاصی کا بھی ناز بردار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brother! Why does the heart become hard? What are the disadvantages of being hard-hearted? How can it be cured? اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s speech we will try and discuss Madani pearls regarding this. Firstly, let’s listen to a terrifying parable of a hard-hearted person. Try to listen with undivided attention.

A one-day-old baby girl was buried alive. In a rural area of Punjab (Pakistan), a merciless father buried a one-day-old daughter alive! The police arrested him. Details reveal that the accused person had become the father of the sixth daughter. Giving a statement, the cruel father said that his daughter was ugly with a distorted face. He had even asked the doctor to give her a poison injection but the doctor refused. So he buried his daughter alive.

(Daily Jang Online, 14 July 2012, amended)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how the hard-hearted and merciless father murdered his daughter! What was the mistake of the baby girl or her mother in this? It is the will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that for whomever He wants, He grants them a son or He grants them a daughter. Remember! Whether it is the murder of a daughter or a son or anyone else, in Islam murdering a person unjustly is Haraam and an act leading to Hell.

1. If those who are in the sky and on the earth gather upon the murder of a Muslim, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ puts all of them into Hell with their faces down.

(Mu’jam-us-Sagheer, pp. 250)

Many types of sins are committed, such as killing innocent people etc. and one of the reasons for this is hard-heartedness as well. What is hard-heartedness? Let’s listen!

It is stated on page 370 of the commentary ‘Siraat-ul-Jinaan’, volume 4 published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Hardness of the heart means that the

heart becomes so hard due to not remembering death and the Hereafter, that advice does not affect the heart, a person gets inclined towards sins, he does not feel a sense of shame when committing sins and he does not consider repentance. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 370)

Remember! The disease of hard-heartedness is not a minor disease, it is a destructive disease and hard-hearted people have also been condemned in the Holy Quran. In verse 74 of Surah Baqarah, part 1, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

ثُمَّ قَسَتۡ قُلُوۡ بُکُمۡ مِّنۡۢ بَعۡدِ ذٰلِکَ فَہِیَ کَا لۡحِجَارَۃِ اَوۡ اَ شَدُّ قَسۡوَۃً ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then after it, your hearts hardened - so they are like rocks, or even harder. (Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 74)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the above-mentioned blessed verse, the hard-hearted people who have been mentioned, refers to those people of the Bani Israel who lived in the time of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . It was stated about them that they did not learn any lesson after seeing great indications and miracles of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Their hearts became like stones, or rather harder than stones, because even stones get affected as from some of them streams flow out, some stones break and water flows out of them and some fall down due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Wills, but the human who has been given so much of common sense and understanding, whose senses are powerful, intellect is complete, (to him) evidences are clear, (and) opportunities of advice are present, even then he does not worship and obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 146)

سلسلہ آہ! گناہوں کا بڑھا جاتا ہے

نِت نیا جُرم ہر اِک آن ہوا جاتا ہے

قلب پتھر سے بھی سختی میں بڑھا جاتا ہے

خول پر خول سیاہی کا چڑھا جاتا ہے

لاؤں وہ اشک کہاں سے جو سیاہی دھوئیں

گندگی میں مرا دل حد سے بڑھا جاتا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed Ahadees

Dear Islamic brothers! There is no doubt that hard-heartedness is a dangerous disease and a devastating disaster. This disease plays a significant role in making us suffer from sin diseases. Keeping its disasters in mind, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say: For the true believer, the biggest punishment is that his heart will get hard. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 3, pp. 44)

Hard-heartedness increases sins, it keeps a person away from the religion, erases the pleasure of worship, recitation of the Holy Quran and Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It keeps a person away from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and is the sign of misfortune. In short, it is a disease that becomes the cause of bringing out other apparent and spiritual diseases. It has been condemned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to 2 more blessed Ahadees regarding this.

1. ‘A hard-hearted person is very far from (the mercy) of Allah’.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 184, Hadees 2419)

2. ‘4 things are from misfortune, (1) the act of not flowing tears (2) the hardness of heart (3) to have high hopes (4) to suffer from the greed of this world.’ (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 62, Hadees 921)

Signs of hard-heartedness

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt that one of the reasons for being away from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and being unfortunate forever is hard-heartedness as well. Nowadays, a large of number of people are found relating their tales of troubles (worries, difficulties, poverty and hindrances in business). Just ponder, is our hard-heartedness and the distance from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (due to this), the reasons for all these problems? Have our hearts become harder than a stone and we do not know about it? Surely, every illness has some symptoms which help to diagnose the disease. Likewise, there are some symptoms of hardheartedness as well. Let’s listen to some of these symptoms.

One of the symptoms of hard-heartedness is that a person does not like to perform good deeds. If he ever goes to the Masjid, he hastily offers Salah without extreme humility like a bird that is confined in a cage and trying to get free as soon as possible. Similarly, he begins to feel other obligatory acts and Wajibat as a burden. This symptom of hard-heartedness is very evil because the same symptom has been mentioned for hypocrites in the Holy Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اِذَا قَامُوۡۤ ا اِلَی الصَّلٰو ۃِ قَامُوۡ ا کُسَالٰی ۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when they stand up for prayer, they do it unwillingly. (Part. 5, Surah An-Nisa, verse 142)

عِبادت میں لگتا نہیں دل ہمارا

ہیں عِصیاں میں بدمست ہم یا اِلٰہی

بڑی کوششیں کی گناہ چھوڑنے کی

رہے آہ! ناکام ہم یا اِلٰہی

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ save us from this disaster (i.e. hardness of the heart) and grant us extreme humility in worship and recitation of the Holy Quran, as well as sincerity and steadfastness!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

In the same way, one of the symptoms of hard-heartedness is that when a person is not inclined to pondering over the Hereafter or not doing good

deeds after listening to sound advice and to those acts which remind him of the Hereafter or by reading or listening to the parables about sudden death.

Another symptom of hard-heartedness is to prefer this temporary world over the everlasting Hereafter and to become restless in attaining success for this world, considering it to be everything. As a result of this, such a person becomes blind in the love of this world and loses himself in the dark valley of sins and is left with nothing but destruction of the world and the Hereafter.

Another symptom of hard-heartedness is when Divine commands are not followed and sins are abundantly committed by being shameless and immodest in front of a person, even then his faith does not wake up to this fact and he does not refrain from that evil or he does not consider it to be bad in the heart if he cannot stop it, it should be understood that his heart has become hard.

Dear Islamic brothers! From these symptoms and signs it can easily be judged that hard-heartedness is a very dangerous disease. It is a disease that makes a person a slave of his Nafs and Satan, by making him disobedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One of the ways to get rid of hard-heartedness is to ponder over the causes leading to hard-heartedness and then try to remove them. Let’s listen to some of them.

1. Love of this world is another reason for hardness of the heart because when love of this world overpowers the heart of a person, the heart starts paying attention to it and then he does not take interest in the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and worshipping and he tries to find peace of heart in sports, entertainment and the attractions of this world. He destroys his world in useless and sinful acts and then he is destined to disgrace even in the Hereafter.

1. Another reason for hard-heartedness is useless conversations, as speaking too much or speaking without thinking causes hard-heartedness besides other evils of the tongue. The tongue is an organ that expresses the feelings of the heart and thus it represents the heart. Whenever the tongue is used, the heart and mind pay attention to it. Due to being busy with unnecessary and useless conversations, the heart and mind pay less attention to betterment of the Hereafter, contemplation of death and the conditions after death, and thus the heart starts to become hard itself. One of the reasons for hard-heartedness stated in a blessed Hadees is useless conversations.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: O people! Do not engage in abundant conversations, except the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Because to have abundant conversations, causes hard-heartedness and undoubtedly amongst people that person is the furthest from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whose heart is hard. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 184, Hadees 2419)

2. Laughing excessively is another reason for hard-heartedness. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Do not laugh excessively because excessive laughter kills (i.e. hardens) the heart. (Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 465, Hadees 4193) Talking about the loss of excessive laughter, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Continue avoiding excessive laughter because laughter ends the Noor of the face.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 340, Raqm 27)

3. The fourth reason for hard-heartedness is heedlessness of the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because a heart has four conditions: (1) loftiness (2) expansion (3) lowness (4) hardness. The loftiness of the heart lies in the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; its expansion lies in attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; its lowness lies in being occupied with people; and its hardness lies in the heedlessness of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sharh Awliya, pp. 10)

Another reason for hard-heartedness is to eat a stomach full. Of course! To eat to one’s fill not only creates laziness in worship and harms the health, but it also hardens the heart. Sayyiduna Bashar Bin Haaris رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has

1. said: Eating a lot is one of the habits that harden the heart. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 8, pp. 392) Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Eating a lot causes hardness of the heart. (Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn, pp. 350)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that one of the reasons behind hard-heartedness is to love this world. According to a saying of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Love of the world is the root of every disease. The second reason that we have heard about hard-heartedness is to have useless conversations. Alas! The majority of us always have useless conversations, we do not even abstain from obscene talks. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Obscene talks results from hard-heartedness and a hardened heart is in the fire. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 406, Hadees 2016)

Another reason behind hard-heartedness is to laugh excessively. Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The person who laughs excessively, loses his dignity and awe, and the person who jokes abundantly, loses his respect in front of others. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 137)

Apart from the heedlessness of Allah’s Zikr and committing sins in abundance, eating in excess is also a cause of hard-heartedness. The great Sunnah of eating is this: When a person feels hungry, he should eat, otherwise without being hungry if he eats food, it will not give him any energy, but it will ruin his health and his heart will become hard.

اِلٰہی میں عمدہ غذائیں نہ کھاؤں

غمِ مصطفی میں بس آنسو بہاؤں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Man always wants that which is beneficial, whereas those things which are harmful to him, every sensible person tries to get away from such things. Surely hard-heartedness has no advantages, but only

disadvantages. What kinds of harm does a person suffer if he becomes hard-hearted? Let’s listen to these:

The harmful effect of hard-heartedness is that a person becomes bold in committing sins. He does not care for the terrors of the grave nor fear of the Day of Judgment, accountability of the Hereafter and the torments of Hell. Being careless of every type of advice, such a person becomes bold and outspoken. As a result, sometimes such a person commits the sin of blasphemy and loses his faith.

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: A person who speaks about good or bad without any hesitation, then understand that he is hard-hearted and devoid of modesty. Hard-heartedness is a tree whose roots are in the heart of a human and its branches are in Hell. The end of such an daring person is that he eventually becomes disrespectful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and thus becomes a Kafir (disbeliever) .

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 641)

مسلماں ہے عطاؔر تیری عطا سے

ہو ایمان پر خاتمہ یا اِلٰہی

The harm of hard-heartedness is that a person gets deprived of Allah’s worship, recitation of the Holy Quran and virtuous deeds. In fact, the purpose of our life is to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to be inclined towards good deeds. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ مَا خَلَقۡتُ الۡجِنَّ وَ الۡاِ نۡسَ اِلَّا لِیَعۡبُدُ وۡنِ ﴿۵۶﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And I created the jinns and men, only for them to worship Me. (Part 27, Surah Az-Zariyaat, verse 56)

In another verse, it is stated:

اَ لَّذِیۡ خَلَقَ الۡمَوۡتَ وَ الۡحَیٰوۃَ لِیَبۡلُوَکُمۡ اَ یُّکُمۡ اَحۡسَنُ عَمَلًا ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The One Who created death and life to test you - who among you has the better deeds. (Part 29, Surah Al-Mulk, verse 2)

Just ponder, the purpose of our life is to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to abundantly perform good deeds, but hard-heartedness is a disease which makes a person forget even his purpose of life.

Another harmful effect of hard-heartedness is that due to its evil effects, the previous good deeds go to waste. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Six things ruin a deed: (1) the act of finding faults with people (2) Hard-Heartedness (3) Love for the world (4) Lack of shame (5) high hopes (6) Oppression beyond limits. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 36, Hadees 44016)

Another curse of hard-heartedness is that a person becomes deserving of Allah’s displeasure and curse (i.e., that person is far away from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Ask for goodness from the kind-hearted people of my Ummah. Stay close to them and do not ask for goodness from hard-hearted people because curse descends upon them.

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 458, Hadees 7978)

یا رَبّ پئے رضا مجھے وہ آنکھ دےکہ جو

عشقِ رسول ِ پاک میں آنسو بہا سکے

وہ آگ میرے سینے میں آقا لگائیے

پتھر سے سخت دل کو بھی جو کہ جلا سکے

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard four disadvantages or harms of hard-heartedness. We should also analyse ourselves from an organizational point of view. For example, those Islamic brothers who were associated with the Madani environment, who used to actively participate in Madani activities, awake Muslims for Salah by doing Sada-e-Madinah, they now face great difficulty in waking up for Salah, they should contemplate that they are the ones who previously used to give Madani pearls of Sunnah to the lovers of the Beloved Rasool through Madani Dars (Dars-e-Faizan-e-Sunnat), but now they are deprived of this Madani activity.

Those Islamic brothers, who previously used to persuade Muslims to abstain from sins and perform good deeds by calling them through Chowk Dars, now feel ashamed of giving Chowk Dars, should also contemplate.

The Islamic brothers who used to enthusiastically study or teach at Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) in devotion to the Holy Quran, but now they do not find time for this great Madani work of righteousness, should also contemplate.

Those Islamic brothers who previously used to call or invite the lovers of the Beloved Rasool to the weekly Ijtima throughout the week, and used to start preparations after ‘Asr Salah, then they used to attend the Ijtima from the beginning, observe I’tikaf at night, offer Tahajjud Salah, do Sada-e-Madinah, offer Fajr Salah and after Fajr Salah they used to arrange Madani Halqahs, but now sometimes they do not even attend the weekly Ijtima, should also contemplate. Those Islamic brothers, who previously used to attend the area visit to call people towards righteousness and used to visit houses and shops to present the call towards righteousness every week, but now they do not develop the passion for faith despite having seen Muslims committing sins abundantly, nor do they get ready to take part in this Madani activity, should also contemplate.

Those Islamic brothers who used to make efforts to prepare other Islamic brothers, filled with the enthusiasm for travelling with Madani Qafilahs and used to make lots of individual efforts for this Madani work, but now if they

are invited to travel with the Madani Qafilah, they offer lame excuses, should also contemplate.

Those Islamic brothers, who used to practise the Sunnah by acting upon the Madani In’amaat, but now they feel great difficulty in acting upon the Madani In’amaat, should also contemplate.

We all should contemplate lest the evil effect of sins and hard-heartedness deprive us of good deeds and the ability to perform good deeds.

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Do not have any suspicion for those Islamic brothers who are not in the Madani environment or do not take interest in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs as they used to do previously with great zeal and enthusiasm. For example, having a suspicion like so-and-so is deprived of this Madani work due to his sins; so-and-so does not perform this Madani work now due to hard-heartedness, instead, we should have a good opinion for every Muslim. We should always have fear of the hidden plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, because deeds depend upon the end (death). May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the death of martyrdom, burial in Jannat-ul-Baqi’ and a place in the closeness to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus with faith and peace in the shade of Gumbad-e-Khazra (Grand Green Emerald Dome)!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

مسلماں ہے عطار تیری عطا سے

ہو ایمان پر خاتِمہ یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If we suffer from any fatal disease, we get worried and start getting treatments in order to get rid of it, but hard-heartedness which is an extremely fatal spiritual disease, can become a cause of disgrace in the Hereafter along with destruction in this world. Therefore, while curing hard-

heartedness, we should perform those deeds which create softness in the heart. Let’s listen to some cures for this spiritual ailment.

One of the things that soften the heart is to recite the Holy Quran as much as possible and ponder over those verses which mention the punishments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of its blessings, fear will develop in the heart and the heart will become soft. In verse 23 of Surah Az-Zumar, part 23, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اَللّٰہُ نَزَّلَ اَحۡسَنَ الۡحَدِیۡثِ کِتٰبًا مُّتَشَابِہًا مَّثَانِیَ ٭ۖ تَقۡشَعِـرُّ مِنۡہُ جُلُوۡدُ الَّذِیۡنَ یَخۡشَوۡنَ رَبَّہُمۡ ۚ ثُمَّ تَلِیۡنُ جُلُوۡدُ ہُمۡ وَ قُلُوۡ بُہُمۡ اِلٰی ذِکۡرِ اللّٰہِ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah has sent down the best of Books (the Holy Quran), which is consistent throughout, the one with paired statements; the hairs on the skins of those who fear their Lord, stand on end with it; then their skins and their hearts soften, inclined towards the remembrance of Allah. (Part 23, Surah Az-Zumar, verse 23)

If only we could also have the privilege to recite the Holy Quran daily! If only we could also be blessed with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessings of pondering over the blessed verses!

If only we could always think about a bad end and the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but how extremely regretful it is that we do not realize it. We have wasted our childhood, youth and old age in useless acts. Did we ever feel the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ during this period of time? Have we ever wept due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Have we ever stopped committing a sin just by thinking about its punishment? Have we ever felt terror from sins by thinking about the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?

If the answer is yes, then ponder, if we have ever had these conditions, then have we had the privilege to act upon the practical requirements of fear of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or have we only got satisfied when these conditions affected our hearts, that we are amongst those who have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and continued to darken our book of deeds with different sins.

If the answers to these questions are in the negative, we should ponder if our hearts have become hard like a stone due to committing an abundance of sins and therefore we are still deprived of these conditions. If there is really something like this then it is a matter of serious concern that our hard-heartedness and the heedlessness that has resulted from it may throw us into the depths of Hell.

گنہ لمحہ بہ لمحہ ہائے! اب بڑھتے ہی جاتے ہیں

نہیں پر اس پہ ہائے کچھ ندامت یا رسول الله

گنہ کرکر کے ہائے! ہو گیا دل سخت پتھر سے

کروں کس سے کہاں جا کر شکایت یا رسول الله

میں بچنا چاہتا ہوں ہائے! پھر بھی بچ نہیں پاتا

گناہوں کی پڑی ہے ایسی عادت یا رسول الله

کمر اعمالِ بد نے ہائے! میری توڑ کر ر کھ دی

تباہی سے بچالو جان رحمت یا رسول الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another way to create softness in the heart is to stay away from the company of bad people and to keep the company of pious people. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘As iron after being soft becomes a tool, gold becomes jewellery, earth becomes a field or a garden, flour becomes bread etc., similarly a human after being soft becomes a saint, Sufi, ‘Aarif etc. Soft-heartedness is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This soft-heartedness is attained through the company of saints and their pure words. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 7)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has Himself commanded us to keep good company of the pious people. It is stated in verse 119 of Surah At-Taubah, part 11:

یٰۤاَ یُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُو ا اتَّقُو ا اللّٰہَ وَ کُوۡنُوۡ ا مَعَ الصّٰدِ قِیۡنَ ﴿۱۱۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! Fear Allah, and be with the truthful. (Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, verse 119)

It is stated on page 258 of commentary Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 4, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah that this verse gives the evidence of having the company of pious people because one way of being with them is to keep their company. One of the effects of having their company is that we are enabled to abstain from sins and perform good deeds, after observing good character and good deeds. Another effect is that it removes the hardness from the heart and creates softness in the heart. A person is privileged to die with faith and will focus on the serious matters of the grave and Day of Judgment. Therefore, every Muslim should have relationships with the pious people and keep their company and know whose company he is going to have.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person is influenced by the faith of his friend. Therefore, he should see with whom he is forming a friendship with.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

Persuading us to find a religious friend, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘Find true friends and spend your life with them because they are grace in pleasure and necessary in trials. And do not keep the company of a sinner, otherwise you will learn to commit sins from him.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 214)

Be in seclusion to make your world and Hereafter better by performing religious activities and completing your necessary work of the world or keep the company of such Sunnah-practising Islamic brothers whose words become

the cause of increasing the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in your heart, and they draw your attention towards apparent and spiritual diseases and suggest their cures. Sometimes the privilege of meeting such pious people becomes the cause of our forgiveness.

In the book Sharh-us-Sudoor ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Sayyiduna Yazeed Bin Haroon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I saw Sayyiduna Abu Ishaaq Muhammad Bin Yazeed Waasiti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in a dream and asked: How did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you? He replied: He forgave me. I asked: What was the cause of your forgiveness? He replied: Once Sayyiduna Abu ‘Amr Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to us on Friday and made Du’a, so we said Aameen. It is for this reason that I was forgiven. (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 282; Kitab-ul-Manamaat ma’ Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 3, pp. 156, Raqm 337)

مجھے بے حساب بخش دے میرے مولٰی

تجھے واسِطہ نیک بندوں کا یا ربّ

Dear Islamic brothers! At present, Muslims are very far and are moving further away from the teachings of Islam. People have completely forgotten the Hereafter and have been engrossed in this world. Let alone offering Sunnah and Nawafil, majority of the people even miss their Fard Salahs, due to which our Masajid have been deserted. In order to refill our Masajid with people to offer Salah, if we make efforts then undoubtedly this is no less than a privilege. Therefore, try to increase Sada-e-Madinah and support Dawat-e-Islami in filling the Masajid with people, to offer Salah. What is Madani In’aam number 35, let’s listen to this:

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in Madani In’aam number 35 of the booklet 72 Madani In’amaat (for Islamic brothers): Did you perform Sada-e-Madinah today? (Waking up Muslims for Fajr Salah is called ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Perhaps by virtue of our individual efforts, if a Muslim starts offering Salah regularly, this could become a continuous source of reward for us. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

An Islamic brother from Mathura (India) has stated: I was a fashionable young man and would often watch movies as my pastime. I was once privileged to listen to a Sunnah-Inspiring speech from a cassette titled ‘ The Perils of Television ’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah . This speech transformed my life, inspiring me to join the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I suffered from an appendix problem, and the doctors advised me to have an operation, I was terrified. Meanwhile, as a result of the individual efforts of a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami, I travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool, for the first time in my life. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, my sickness was cured without any operation. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being greatly inspired by this, I now have the privileged to travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month. Furthermore, I hand in my Madani In’amaat booklet every month and around Fajr time I awaken Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr by calling out Sada-e-Madinah.

(Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 248)

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to become soft-hearted, one should wear simple clothing and eat simple foods. If your clothing has a patch due to being old then this is excellent since it softens the heart. Once Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked as to why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ patched up his clothing, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘ يَخۡشَعُ الۡقَلۡبُ وَيَقۡتَدِيۡ بِهِ الۡمُؤۡمِنُ ’ It keeps the heart soft and a true believer follows it (i.e. the heart of a true believer should be soft). (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, pp. 124, vol. 1)

Dear Islamic brothers! Wearing clothes that have a patch (due to being old) softens the heart of a true believer. At present, Muslims feel proud of copying

non-Muslims and wear clothes of new designs and consider it their honour to wear such types of clothes. Remember! A man is respected by his character, not by his clothes. If somebody’s clothing is very expensive, but his habits and manners are not good, no one will like him. Some people wear expensive clothes in order to make other people feel inferior and they suffer from the disaster of pride, tormenting their heart. Some people wear so thin clothes that expose those parts of the body which are necessary to be concealed. Therefore, instead of wearing fashionable clothes, one should wear clothes according to the Sunnah and be simple, by virtue of this, he will succeed in both the worlds, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Despite having the means to wear good clothing, if a person avoids them due to humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the clothing of Karamah [Heavenly clothing].’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, pp. 326, vol. 4, Hadees 4778)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! That person who has a lot of wealth and beautiful clothes, but still wears simple clothing for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to be humble, he will be granted heavenly clothing. It is obvious that the one who wears Heavenly attire will definitely enter Heaven . Those who wear attractive, elegant and dazzling dresses to impress others or to show off their wealth just for the satisfaction of their Nafs, should listen to the following narration and learn a lesson from it.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The one who wears clothing of fame in the world will be made to wear the clothing of disgrace by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Day of Judgment .’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 163, vol. 4, Hadees 3606)

Commenting on the abovementioned Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـمَـنَّان has stated, ‘Clothing (of fame) refers to such clothing which gives the impression that the

one wearing it is a rich or a pious person. Dressing like this are clothing of fame. In other words, the clothing of a person who wears it with the intention of being treated with respect, will be considered as clothing of fame for him.’ The compiler of the book ‘ Mirqat ’ has further stated, ‘To wear such clothing which makes people laugh is also considered as clothing of fame.’

(Mirat, pp. 109, vol. 6)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, this is a very tough test. It is absolutely necessary for us to carefully consider our clothes and avoid showing off. Furthermore, those who wear simple clothes, an Imamah and shawl etc. to show them off to people, they are show offs and are deserving of Hell . We beg Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for sincerity.

مِرا ہر عمل بس تِر ے واسِطے ہو

کر اِخلاص ایسا عطا یا الٰہی

Another way to become soft-hearted is to abundantly remember one’s own death. A woman approached Umm-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا complaining about hard-heartedness, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا stated the following cure for it: ‘Remember death abundantly you will become soft-hearted.’ She acted upon this for some days and when she became soft-hearted, she again approached Umm-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and expressed thanks to her. (Ithaf-us-Sadat-il-Muttaqeen, vol. 14, pp. 24)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should never forget our death and spend the rest of our lives in its preparation along with increasing our worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, contemplation of the Hereafter and the remembrance of death will help in getting rid of the love of this world. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Death is frightful and it has a great danger, nevertheless people are heedless. Neither do they think about it, nor they remember it and if someone thinks about it, he thinks of it without paying any attention, because their hearts are occupied with worldly desires. Therefore, the heart does not obtain benefit from the thought of death, however benefit can be obtained if one remembers death considering that death is before him and apart from it all other things should be removed from the heart. For example,

if a person intends to travel through a dangerous jungle or intends to go on a journey, then he only thinks about this, therefore, when the connection of the remembrance of death is directly to the heart, it will be effective and such signs will appear as one will lose interest in this world to an extent that every joy of this world will become worthless for him.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 195)

In order to get rid of hard-heartedness, every now and then one should visit the graves and ponder over the helplessness of the dead, like this: Some of them did not even bear a stain of dust on their clothing, and today they are buried beneath tons of earth. Some of them were so sensitive that they did not tolerate anything, but today what would insects have done with them? After visiting the graves, ponder over the above and اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ one will become soft-hearted. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said to the blessed Companions: I forbade you to visit the graves, but now you visit the graves, because it softens the heart, brings tears to the eyes and reminds one of the Hereafter. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 1, pp. 710, Hadees 1433)

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard a speech about hard-heartedness . Surely, hard-heartedness is a kind of punishment from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because of which a person commits major sins, even sometimes committing Kufr (disbelief). Hard-heartedness makes a person cruel. Hard-heartedness puts a person far away from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Hard-heartedness is a sign of misfortune. Hard-heartedness keeps a person away from worship. Hard-heartedness weakens the faith. Hard-heartedness makes a person bold in committing sins and it wastes the previous good deeds. Hard-heartedness is a curse because due to it, advice has no effect on the heart. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to abstain from hard-heartedness by pondering over the causes of it!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. When meeting a Muslim, it is Sunnah t o make Salam to him .

2. There is reward for making Salam to Muslims no matter how many times you meet in a day, even if one leaves and enters a room frequently.

3. It is a Sunnah to be the first in making Salam.

4. The one who makes Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

5. The one who makes Salam first is free from pride, as the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who makes Salam first, is free from pride.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 433)

6. Ninety mercies descend upon the one who makes Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

7. One receives 10 virtues for saying ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾, 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ ﴾ is added and 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ is also added.

8. Similarly, one can receive 30 virtues by replying with ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ .

9. It is Wajib [obligatory] to immediately reply to a Salam in a voice audible to the one who made the Salam.

1. Learn the correct pronunciation of Salam and the reply of Salam . First, I will say it; then you repeat after me ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾ كُمْ ﴾ – عَلَے – مُ – سَلَا – ﴿ اَسْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَام ﴾ سَلَام ﴾ – مُسْ – لَیْكُ – عَ – ﴿ وَ .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سن ّ ت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

