اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s Yearning for Islamic Knowledge

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When the day of Thursday approaches, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends His angels, who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They write the names of those who recite Salat in abundance on Thursday and during Friday night [which begins after sunset on Thursday]. (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 1, pp. 184, Hadees 688)

کیوں کہوں بیکَس ہوں میں، کیوں کہوں بے بَس ہوں میں

تم ہو میں تم پر فِدا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the sacred month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram is showering its blessings upon us. It is the sacred month in which A’la Hadrat, leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. With reference to this, today we will talk about A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in good words. We will have the privilege to listen to his brief introduction and the incidents of yearning for Islamic knowledge.

A’la Hadrat, leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born on Saturday, 10 th Shawwal, 1272 AH (14 th June 1856) at the time of Zuhr Salah in Jasoli, one of the areas of blessed Bareilly, India. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 58)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه belonged to a Pathan family, Hanafi school of thought, Qaadiri from Tareeqat and Barelvi due to the place where he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. His father’s name is Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and grandfather’s name is Maulana Raza ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Faazil Barelvi ‘Ulama Hijaz ki Nazar Mayn, pp. 67)

[

His birth name is ‘Muhammad’. His respectable mother used to call him ‘Amman Miyan’. His father and other relatives named him ‘Ahmad Miyan’ and his grandfather named him ‘Ahmad Raza’. His historical name is ‘Al-Mukhtar’. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself used to write ‘Abdul Mustafa’ before his name. (Tajalliyat Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 21)

مصطفٰی کا وہ لاڈلا پیارا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

غوثِ اعظم کی آنکھ کا تارا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Khalifah (caliph) of A’la Hadrat, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Zafaruddeen Bihari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was staying in the house of Wasee Ahmad (Muhaddis) Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as a guest in Pilibhit (India). One day, during a conversation a book of Fiqh was mentioned which was kept in the library of Muhaddis Soorti. Having heard the name of the book, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I have not seen (this book). Lend me this book when I go (back to Bareilly). Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه happily accepted it and brought the book and presented it to A’la Hadrat, saying this: Please return it to me when you have studied it because you have many books, but I have these few books through which I give Fatawa. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه accepted it.

On the same day he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to leave for Bareilly, but due to the invitation of a devoted disciple he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to stay one more day. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه studied the book during the night. The next day when it was time to leave for Bareilly, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned the book to Muhaddis Soorti and said: I intended to take it to Bareilly and if I had left yesterday, I would have taken it, but since I did not leave yesterday, I read the whole book during the night and in the morning. Now I do not need to take it. Being extremely surprised Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Was it sufficient to read it only once? A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: By the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ I hope I will write in the Fatawa, the sentence which I need for 2 to 3 months and the topic has been saved for the rest of my life, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 213)

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated:

علم و عِرفاں کا جو کہ ساگَر تھا خیر سے حافِظہ قَوی تر تھا

حق پہ مَبنی تھا جس کا ہر فتوٰی واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you notice! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had so much passion and yearning for acquiring Islamic knowledge that a book which normally takes a long time if it is studied with understanding, but may I become sacrificed for the yearning of A’la Hadrat’s Islamic knowledge, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read not only the whole book in one night from beginning to end, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also memorized it in a way that he himself stated: I hope, by the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that in two to three months (from this book) the sentence I will need I can write in (my own) Fatawa and the topic has been memorized for my whole life, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . From this statement of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it has become clear that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was well aware of the importance of time and the honour and respect of Islamic knowledge.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه devoted his entire life to acquiring and propagating Islamic knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not spend a single moment uselessly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had started this blessed journey of acquiring Islamic knowledge since his childhood, because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was from a pure religious and scholarly family. His respectable father and grandfather were also practicing (Islamic) scholars. The state of A’la Hadrat’s yearning for Islamic knowledge in his childhood was that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go himself to study without being asked by anyone. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted to go on Friday as well, but he did not because his honourable father forbade him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه understood that Friday is a very important day of the week, therefore, one should not study on a Friday, the remaining six days are for study.

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 69)

Hence, we should also develop the yearning for acquiring Islamic knowledge and should acquire Islamic knowledge with enthusiasm. We should not be deprived of Islamic knowledge at all due to our laziness without any reason. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for attaining the yearning of acquiring Islamic knowledge.

[

1. مَنۡ خَرَجَ فِيۡ طَلَبِ الۡعِلۡمِ فَهُوَ فِيۡ سَبِيۡلِ اللّٰهِ حَتّٰي يَرۡجِعَ: Whoever leaves his home for acquiring knowledge, he is in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until he returns.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 294, Hadees 2656)

2. One who goes to a Masjid to learn or teach a virtuous act, he receives the reward equal to the reward of a person who performs Hajj completely. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 75, Hadees 146)

3. One who meets death whilst seeking knowledge for the revival of Islam, there will be the difference of only one rank between him and the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام in Paradise. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 112, Hadees 354)

علم و عِرفاں کا جو کہ ساگَر تھا خیر سے حافِظہ قَوی تر تھا

حق پہ مَبنی تھا جس کا ہر فتوٰی واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you listen! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has great blessings upon those who leave their homes for acquiring Islamic knowledge. These fortunate people will be considered to be in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ unless they return. Sawab (reward) equal to those who perform Hajj is recorded in their books of deeds. If the (Islamic) student dies in the same state, he is blessed with high ranks in Paradise. Therefore, we should also gain Islamic knowledge for attaining these virtues of acquiring knowledge.

In addition to listening the speeches of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, Nigran-e-Shura and other preachers, or the lessons we have learnt from our teachers or Madani pearls which have been extracted from a book, we should also study the books and booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah repeatedly with due concentration in order to acquire Islamic knowledge effectively. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing you will receive a treasure of information and develop the yearning for knowledge.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never took a lesson more than one-fourth from his teacher, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so intelligent and fond of studying that after studying a quarter of the book from his teacher, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would study the rest of the book himself and would read it out after memorizing it.

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 70)

[

Talking about his yearning for Islamic knowledge and strength of memory, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has himself stated: When my teacher, by whom I would learn from the beginning of the book, would teach me a lesson, I would close the book after seeing it once or twice. When he asked me to tell him the lesson, I would tell him word for word. Having observed this situation every day he would be amazed. One day he asked me, ‘Ahmad Miyan! Are you a human or a jinn? I take some time to teach, but you do not take time to memorize it!’ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَـلَيْه replied, ‘All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am a human, however, I have been blessed with the favour and grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 68)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you listen! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَـلَيْه had such a great yearning for acquiring Islamic knowledge that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَـلَيْه would see his lesson once or twice and would be able to learn his lesson after his teacher had taught him the lesson. His teacher would be surprised to see his passion for knowledge and strength of memory as to how this child learnt his lesson by heart in a very short period of time. On the other hand, our memory is such that we do not remember very easy and little things after reading and listening to them again and again. For example, if we succeed in memorizing something, we immediately forget it. If we want to strengthen our memory, then, first of all, we have to get rid of those things which weaken the memory such as to see one’s own or someone’s Satr without any Shar’i permission, to avoid eating fat, sour and phlegm-producing things and especially to avoid committing sins day and night as these and our sinful lives are major reasons for a weak memory.

Therefore, in order to strengthen the memory, to receive protection from the punishments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to enjoy the eternal blessings of Paradise, we must abandon sins and get into the habit of constantly repenting. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah’s mercy must be upon us.

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If you repent immediately, then it is hoped that very soon the disease of committing sins will be terminated from your heart and you will get rid of the burden of the evil influence of sins. Do not be afraid at all of the hardness of the heart that develops due to sins, but always keep your eyes towards your heart as some pious people have said: ‘Indeed, the heart gets dark due to committing sins and the sign of darkness of the heart is that one does not feel worried about sins. He does not get an opportunity to worship; advice does not benefit him (i.e. his heart remains unaffected even after listening to advices).’ O dear! Do not consider any sin to be minor and despite indulged in constant major sins, do not consider yourself as having repented.

(Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 69)

میں کر کے توبہ پلٹ کر گناہ کرتا ہوں

حقیقی توبہ کا کر دے شَرَف عطا یا ربّ!

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

[

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some tips of making the memory strong:

[

§ Abandoning sins is the best way to make the memory strong.

§ Avoiding Haraam sustenance is also a cause of making the memory strong.

§ Whatever Islamic knowledge we acquire, we should practise upon it.

§ Make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for making your memory strong: ‘O my Lord! Your humble bondman is present before You. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I want to

acquire the knowledge of Your Deen (Islam), but my memory does not help me. O our Lord Who has the power over everything! Make my memory strong by Your perfect power and grant salvation upon me from the disease of forgetfulness.’

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

§ Always try to be in the state of Wudu. One of the advantages of being in the state of Wudu is that we will be able to attain the wealth of self-confidence and get rid of inferiority complex along with acting upon the Sunnah.

§ Sleep also plays its role in making the memory strong, therefore, fix the timings of sleeping and waking up and during the time of sleep avoid everything except sleep. Never use medicines that keep you awake. Keep in mind that there should not be any kind of noise at the place where you sleep, nor should there be any kind of bright or strong light so that you may attain full benefit from the sleep.

§ If you are thankful for the blessing of a strong memory, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant Barakah (blessing) in it, thus, a person’s weak memory will become strong and the person who already has a good memory, his good memory will become even more stronger.

[[

Furthermore, study the book ‘ Haafizah Kaysay Mazboot Ho? ’ [i.e. How to Strengthen the Memory?], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, this book will assist us on ways to strengthen the memory. This book contains amazing parables of pious saints and home-made, medical and spiritual treatments to make the memory strong. You can buy this book from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Furthermore, Dawat-e-Islami also offers the facility of reading it online or downloading it for free from its website, www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! A’la Hadrat’s intellect and understanding and utmost desire for Islamic knowledge was such that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made his contribution to approximately fifty branches of knowledge and wrote very valuable books. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a good command in every science. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such excellence in ‘Ilm-e-Tawqeet (science of calculating the time) that he would set his clock merely by looking at the sun during the daytime and with the help of the stars during the night. The time he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would set was always accurate and never differed by even a single minute. (Similarly), A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was second to none in the mathematics.

(Tazkirah Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 6)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: No teacher taught me mathematics. I learnt 4 rules – addition, subtraction, multiplication and division because we need them in the rulings of inheritance. I had just begun the commentary of ‘ Chaghmeeni’ (a book on mathematics) when my respectable father said, ‘Why are you spending your time in this. You will acquire these branches of knowledge yourself by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 550)

An interesting incidence of his expertise in mathematics is being narrated. The vice chancellor of ‘Ali Garh University, who possessed foreign degrees and awards in mathematics, visited A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to seek the solution to a complex mathematical equation. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him to express his problem. He replied, ‘This is not something that I can state so easily.’ A’la Hadrat said, ‘Say something.’ The vice chancellor explained the problem and A’la Hadrat immediately produced a brilliant answer, thus solving the equation.

Being extremely surprised, the vice chancellor said, ‘I was planning to visit Germany to find its solution. By chance, our professor of Islamic studies, Maulana Sayyid Sulayman Ashraf Sahib guided me to you. It seems as if you were looking into a book for the solution to the same problem.’

He went back delighted and satisfied. He became so impressed by the grand personality of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he grew a beard and became regular in offering Salah and observing fasts. (Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 550)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on him and forgive us without accountability for his sake!

جس نے دیکھا اُنہیں عقیدت سے قلب کی آنکھ سے محبت سے

مرحبا مرحبا پُکار اُٹھّا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you listen! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه only learned 4 rules of mathematics from his father, but with the help of these 4 rules and by his yearning for knowledge, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attained such perfect expertise in the science of mathematics, that even a renowned mathematician, who had obtained higher degrees, was very much impressed with him that he started praising him and became habitual of observing Salah and fasts and grew a beard.

Remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted ability and competence upon everyone, but some people waste these abilities in useless things, wrong experiments; sports and entertainments, some want to become famous by pulling off stunts like one wheeling etc.; some desire to impress people by displaying tricks and illusions; others set records by jumping from an extremely great height. In short, everyone is found destroying their worldly life and their Hereafter by busying themselves in these useless activities in order to reach the height of fame. While performing these activities some lose their lives as well.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: One of the Islamic qualities of a person is that he should give up that activity which does not benefit him.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4 pp. 142, Hadees 2324)

Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی always refrained from useless activities. For the preaching and propagation of Islamic knowledge they used their competence in a proper manner and became commentators, Muhaddiseen, jurists, specialists (physicians). In short, everyone by virtue of their abilities and

scholarly efforts is still dominating the hearts of millions. We should also live our lives by following in their steps instead of wasting our abilities and competence in useless activities.

Dear Islamic brothers! The personality of A’la Hadrat, leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a shining role model for us. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه provided the Muslim Ummah with Islamic knowledge even in a state of extreme pains, due to his great love for Islamic knowledge and for the passion of its propagation.

It has been stated that when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to sacred Arabia for the second time for Hajj and reached Jeddah (via ship), he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered from a fever. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent 3 days in Jeddah with this high fever. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recovered to some extent in the days of Hajj, but after performing Hajj he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه again suffered from a fever. (Malfoozat, pp. 183)

In such circumstances, the foremost Islamic scholar of Makkah Mukarramah, the former Qadi (Judge) of Makkah, Maulana Saalih Kamal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked A’la Hadrat some questions about the ‘Ilm-ul-Ghayb [unseen knowledge] of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and said that he wanted the answers to these questions. Despite being ill, being a traveller and very tired due to travelling for Hajj and performing the different Hajj rites as well as many other activities, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Bring an inkpot and pen! Maulana Kamal and other great Islamic scholars of Makkah said: We do not want such a short answer, the answer should be comprehensive so that the denier of the unseen knowledge can be defeated. It was decided that the book was to be completed within two days (Tuesday and Wednesday) and then handed over to the Islamic scholars of Makkah on Thursday.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Trusting the favour and kindness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the help of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم I promised to fulfil this responsibility. The very next day the fever returned. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started writing the booklet whilst having fever, and Haamid Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote it in a neat and clean handwriting. (Malfoozat, pp. 190)

In the meantime, besides other engagements, many renowned Islamic scholars also came to meet him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had scholarly discussions with them. Despite taking breaks for Salahs, engagements related to physical needs and other activities, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed the book within those two days. The book was delivered to Maulana Shaykh Saalih Kamal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه on Thursday morning. It then became famous throughout the city of Makkah Mukarramah. (Malfoozat, pp. 192)

الله الله تَبَحُّرِ علمی اب بھی باقی ہے خدمتِ قلمی

اہلِ سُنّت کا ہے جو سرمایہ واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

Explanation of couplet: Just notice A’la Hadrat’s extremely vast knowledge that the services of A’la Hadrat’s writing for the propagation of Islam are still in existence. These books of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه are a very huge wealth for the Ahl-e-Sunnah. Fatawa Razawiyyah is a very small glimpse of it. Its blessing still continues all over the world.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Despite many activities and in the state of being sick as well as an unavailability of books, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote a rare book in eloquent Arabic within 2 days only. This great achievement not only proves A’la Hadrat’s vast knowledge, but it also shows his yearning for Islamic knowledge. Surely, such a great piece of scholarly work in a very short period of time is only possible when a person’s love and yearning for Islamic knowledge has reached his devotion.

Remember, the yearning for acquiring Islamic knowledge can only be developed when we understand the importance of Islamic scholars, sit in their company, consider those people good who acquire and impart Islamic knowledge. But alas! Due to being far from Islamic knowledge, the majority of us are wasting

our time in useless activities. We do not learn the necessary rulings which are mandatory for us to learn, let alone acquiring Islamic knowledge and then imparting it to others.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees:

طَلَبُ الۡعِلۡمِ فَرِيۡضَ ةٌ عَلٰي كُلِّ مُسۡلِمٍ

Translation: Seeking knowledge is an obligation (Fard) upon every Muslim (male and female) .

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 146, Hadees 224)

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: Regarding this Hadees, whatever A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said I will try to state its summary in simple words: First and foremost obligatory (Fard) act is to acquire the knowledge of the basic faiths which makes a person a Sunni having correct beliefs. Denying such beliefs, makes a person an unbeliever or one who has gone astray. Thereafter, he should learn the rulings of Salah (i.e. its Faraaid, pre-conditions and requirements, and the acts that invalidate it) so that he could offer Salah correctly.

Furthermore, when the sacred month of Ramadan arrives, it is obligatory (for Muslims) to know the basic rulings on Fasting. Likewise, whoever is obligated (under Islamic law) to pay Zakah, is required to learn the rulings on Zakah as well. When Hajj becomes obligatory for someone, he has to learn the rulings on Hajj; for someone who wants to get married, they must learn the necessary rulings on marriage (Nikah). For a trader it is obligatory to learn the rulings on sale and purchase. For a farmer it is obligatory to learn the rulings on cultivation. For an employee and employer it is essential to learn the rulings on employment.

It is obligatory (Fard-e-‘Ayn) for every sane and adult, male and female Muslim to learn the religious rulings which are related to his/her present

condition. Likewise, it is Fard for every Muslim to know what Halal is and what Haraam is. It is also obligatory to know the methods of purifying the heart, for example, how to attain humility, sincerity and submission to Allah’s Will (Tawakkul), and to learn about the spiritual diseases of the heart such as arrogance, ostentation, malice etc.

Alas! Today, the majority of Muslims are heedless of acquiring mandatory knowledge. Remember! We still have time to acquire mandatory knowledge. We should acquire Islamic knowledge before we stop breathing and lose this precious opportunity. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ at present, Dawat-e-Islami has made it very easy for us to acquire Islamic knowledge. For a better education and upbringing of Madani children, Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Dar-ul-Madinah has been established and for the Islamic brothers and sisters, who wish to do Dars-e-Nizami, Jami’a-tul-Madinah have been established.

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As an electronic preacher, the 100% Islamic channel i.e. Madani Channel is presenting the call towards righteousness in every home. It is spreading precious Islamic knowledge. In order to provide the Muslim Ummah with correct Islamic information and Shar’i guidance, sometimes Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and sometimes programs on the most important topics from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are presented which serve as great opportunities to acquire Islamic knowledge. In addition to these, Madani courses are also offered to the Islamic brothers of different departments for their Madani training and to further develop their skills. These Madani courses include the 12-day Madani training course, 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course and especially the 63-day Madani Training Course, which are very important.

Sometimes, the 63-day Faizan Fard ‘Uloom Course is also offered for imparting Fard ‘Uloom. In this course, the Muftis from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat and other Islamic scholars (Madani Islamic brothers), according to the schedule, bestow Islamic brothers with the Madani pearls consisting of Fard ‘Uloom (mandatory branches of knowledge) in a very simple manner.

Since every mobile phone has the facility of a memory card, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, has issued the videos of these Fard ‘Uloom courses in memory cards so that more Muslims can benefit from it. For the ease of the students of Islamic knowledge, Dawat-e-Islami not only develops the passion for acquiring Islamic knowledge in these courses, but it also makes Islamic brothers aware of Fard ‘Uloom to a great extent. One great way of acquiring Islamic knowledge and to attain the enthusiasm of practicing upon it is to travel every month with a 3-day Madani Qafilah in the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool. It is a great privilege to travel in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with Madani Qafilahs in the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool, because by the blessing of a Madani Qafilah, not only do we have the privilege of offering five-time Salah with Jama’at, but we also get the opportunity of learning Sunnahs of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and acquiring Islamic knowledge. Therefore, we should also get benefit from these sources of acquiring knowledge and make our Hereafter better and attain lots of blessings. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for our persuasion.

Here is a summary of a wonderful parable narrated by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India. He has stated: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was uncontrollably committing sins. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, insult people, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also an addicted gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts on me, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and I accepted his invitation. I immediately travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah. In the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, an addicted gambler and drinker like me who did not use

to offer any Salah not only started offering Salah but I was also inspired to call Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also get into the routine of travelling with Madani Qafilahs in the company of lovers of the Beloved Rasool every month. By virtue of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, one not only gets inspiration to perform good deeds, but he also receives the opportunity to acquire Islamic knowledge. If we have a deep yearning and love for Islamic knowledge, then instead of all engagements and difficulties we will be able to have free time.

Sayyid Ayyub ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that one day A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Some people who are unaware, write the title of ‘Haafiz’ with my name whereas I don’t deserve it as I am not a Haafiz of the Holy Quran.’ Sayyid Ayyub رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started memorising the Quran from the very same day. Probably, the duration for that memorization was from having made the Wudu for Salat-ul-‘Isha to the commencement of Jama’at of Salat-ul-‘Isha. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memorised one part every day and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه finished the 30 parts on the 30 th day.

On one occasion, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘I have memorized the Holy Quran in sequence making efforts. I have done so in order that the utterance of the people who write ‘Haafiz’ as a title with my name may not turn out wrong.’ (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 208)

علم و عِرفاں کا جو کہ ساگَر تھا خیر سے حافِظہ قَوی تر تھا

حق پہ مَبنی تھا جس کا ہر فتوٰی واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

[ Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable we have learnt that due to piety and the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not like people to address him with an attribute which was not possessed by him, it has also become known that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would love the Holy Quran very much, that’s why he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memorized the whole Quran in a very short period of one month. On the other hand, we do not recite the Holy Quran and some of us have the privilege of reciting the Holy Quran only in the sacred month of Ramadan. The sacred month of Ramadan that has just passed in which we must have offered all five Salahs in the Masjid. Besides other deeds, we would have recited the Holy Quran as well. If, throughout the whole year, we get into the habit of reciting the Holy Quran and read the translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan/Noor-ul-‘Irfan/Siraat-ul- Jinaan and ponder over it and try to act upon it, then we will be benefitted by its blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It will comfort our heart and mind; there will be blessings in the home, shop and business; the door of mercy will open; salvation will be attained from illnesses; difficulties and troubles will be removed; the matters of the grave and the Hereafter will become easy and above all, the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be attained.

Dear Islamic brothers! As A’la Hadrat, the leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had great devotion towards the Glorious Quran, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also had profound enthusiasm for the blessed Hadees of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, once A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked as to which books he had studied. Upon this, A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned 30 names of the books of blessed Ahadees including Sahih Bukhari, Sahih Muslim, Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Ibn Majah, Sunan Nasa`ee, Mishkat, Jami’-us-Sagheer, Jami’-ul-Kabeer, Musnad Imam A’zam, Musnad Imam Shaafi’i, Musnad Imam Ahmad and Sunan Daarimi ; thereafter he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said in the end that more than 50 books of Ahadees he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had studied during learning and teaching. (Azhar-ul-Haq-ul-Jalee, pp. 40)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our present condition is that we do not even remember the 30 names of the general Islamic books, let alone about the

books of Ahadees, whereas, it was the state of the profound yearning of the leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for acquiring Islamic knowledge that he had studied more than 50 books of Ahadees merely in the science of Hadees for Dars and teaching. Besides his studies, other activities were part of his life such as answering to the Shar’i rulings asked across the globe, sending the answers of the letters, meeting the guests and the travellers, reforming the people who turned away from the true path and writing and compiling books etc.

Undoubtedly, it is the special Divine mercy and grace upon A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he had perfect expertise in approximately more than 50 branches of knowledge and sciences. The remarkable piece of work ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’ comprises of 30 volumes containing a beautiful collection of 6847 questions and answers and 206 booklets with 21,656 pages is the biggest evidence of his deep yearning for knowledge and service for Islam. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept all his services of Islam and shower blessings on his blessed shrine as well as privilege us to follow in his footsteps.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

الله الله تَبَحُّرِ علمی اب بھی باقی ہے خدمتِ قلمی

اہلِ سُنّت کا ہے جو سرمایہ واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have heard about A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه deep yearning for Islamic knowledge.

§ Since his childhood, A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه showed incredible ability towards acquiring Islamic knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had great devotion towards Islamic books and was an expert in the worldly and Islamic branches of knowledge and sciences.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the favourite student of his teachers and had a great memory.

§ His profound yearning for study and high intelligence had reached to such an extent that after learning a quarter of a book from his teacher, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would study the entire book himself and after memorising it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would read it out to his teacher.

§ Despite being ill, on the request of the Arab scholars, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه authored a remarkable piece of writing in the Arabic language on the topic of ‘Ilm-ul-Ghayb [Knowledge of the Unseen].

§ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I have memorised the Glorious Quran in order with great efforts, because people used to take my name preceding it with the title ‘Haafiz’ and I did not want their calling me ‘Haafiz’ could prove wrong.

§ A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an expertise in more than 50 branches of knowledge and sciences. The remarkable piece of work ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’ comprises of 30 volumes containing a beautiful collection of 6847 questions and answers and 206 booklets with 21,656 pages, this is the greatest evidence of his deep yearning for Islamic knowledge and services for Islam.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with the yearning for Islamic knowledge and Islamic books for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

[

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of wearing ‘Imamah, taken from the booklet ‘163 Madani Phool’ by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi:

First 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 31, Hadees 3621)

2. One Salat-ul-Jumu’ah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 70 without it. (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 37, pp. 355)

3. Bind the ‘Imamah whilst standing facing the Qiblah.

(Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 38)

4. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

5. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

