اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

The Great Eminence of Blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَنۡهُم

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, and the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Day of Judgement the person who will attain salvation from its horrors and accountability amongst you will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’ (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

سُنتے ہیں کہ مَحشَر میں صرف اُن کی رَسائی ہے گر اُن کی رَسائی ہے لَو جب تو بَن آئی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The subject of today’s event is the ‘ Great eminence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ’. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable regarding the ‘Great eminence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ’:

‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat – a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, comprises of two volumes, it contains numerous thought provoking parables. Let’s listen to a parable from the first volume, page 73, parable 17: Sayyiduna Abu Jahm Bin Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that in the battle of Yarmook, I went out looking for my cousin, who was in the battle. I took some water with me. I found him completely drenched in blood, suffering the last throes of death. I approached him with the water I had. Beside him came a groan from a wounded soldier. My cousin looked at him and signaled to me to take the water to that soldier. That soldier was Sayyiduna Hishaam Bin ‘Aas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . I had hardly reached him when another person groaned and Sayyiduna Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also motioned me in the other person’s direction. Before I got to him he had embraced martyrdom. Then I went back to Sayyiduna Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and he had also joined the other two. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 73)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How elevated, exalted and lofty was the eminence and glory of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, observe the heights of their selflessness and sacrifice that despite being in the state of severe wounds and experiencing intense thirst, these noble figures had the deep passion of sacrifice that they even sacrificed their own thirst. Seriously think about this, in such a critical and life-threatening situation, when everyone just thinks about himself, these blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were more concerned about others that if I were to quench my thirst then my Muslim brother will be deprived. Undoubtedly, their excellent manners and high courage is due to their true love towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; centuries have passed, and their remembrance is the source of contentment of hearts and peace of our minds. Now let’s listen to who is called a Sahabi? But first, some beautiful verses are presented, taken from ‘ Karamaat-e-Sahabah ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah:

دو عالَم نہ کیوں ہو نثارِ صحابہ کہ ہے عرش منزل وقارِ صحابہ

امیں ہیں یہ قرآن و دِینِ خدا کے مدارِ ہُدٰی اعتبارِ صحابہ

صحابہ ہیں تاجِ رِسالت کے لشکر رسولِ خدا تاجدارِ صحابہ

اِنہی میں ہیں صدیق و فاروق و عثماں اِنہی میں ہیں علی شہوارِ صحابہ

پسِ مرگ اے اعظمی یہ دُعا ہے بنوں میں غُبارِ مزارِ صحابہ

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Haafiz Ibn Hajar ‘Asqalaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Those fortunate people who saw (were in the company) the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the state of Iman and died with Iman is called a Sahabi and the number of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is more than 100,000. It is reported that, on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’, approximately 114000 blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered for the Hajj pilgrimage, through another narration, it is revealed that, on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’, approximately 124000 blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم joined the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the Hajj pilgrimage. (Zurqaani, vol.3, pp. 106) Names of all the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are not known, however the number of those whose names are known is about 7000. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 400)

Amongst all the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, the Khulafa-e-Arba’a (the first four rightly guided caliphs رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are superior to all others then the Ashaab-e-‘Asharah Mubashsharah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم (those who were given the glad tiding of Jannah in the world) thereafter the blessed Hasanayn Karimayn (i.e., Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) then the Ashaab-e-Badr and Ashaab-e-Bayt-ur-Ridwan. All the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are absolutely deserving of Jannah. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, pp. 249)

The Glorious Quran mentions their remarkable courtesy and Iman at many places and they were declared Jannati by giving them the glad tidings of forgiveness, salvation and enormous rewards of the Hereafter. Ponder over this, what will be the eminence and greatness of these blessed figures whose virtues and characteristics are being glorified by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to

some blessed verses from the Glorious Quran about these blessed personalities so that our devotion and love towards them multiplies in our hearts:

اُو لٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡمُؤۡ مِنُوۡنَ حَقًّا ؕ لَہُمۡ دَ رَجٰتٌ عِنۡدَ رَبِّہِمۡ وَ مَغۡفِرَ ۃٌ وَّ رِزۡقٌ کَرِ یۡمٌ ۚ﴿۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: These are the true Muslims; for them are ranks before their Lord, and forgiveness and an honourable sustenance.

(Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, verse 4)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in verse 100 of Surah At-Taubah, part 11:

رَضِیَ اللّٰہُ عَنۡہُمۡ وَ رَضُوۡا عَنۡہُ وَ اَعَدَّ لَہُمۡ جَنّٰتٍ تَجۡرِیۡ تَحۡتَہَا ا لۡاَنۡہٰرُ خٰلِدِ یۡنَ فِیۡہَاۤ اَبَدًا ؕ ذٰ لِکَ ا لۡفَوۡ زُ ا لۡعَظِیۡمُ ﴿۱۰۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him, and He has kept ready for them Gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abide in it for ever and ever; this is the greatest success.

(Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, verse 100)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in verse 29 of Surah Al-Fath, part 26:

مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوۡلُ اللّٰہِ ؕ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ مَعَہٗۤ اَشِدَّ آ ءُ عَلَی الۡکُفَّارِ رُحَمَآءُ بَیۡنَہُمۡ تَرٰىہُمۡ رُکَّعًا سُجَّدًا یَّبۡتَغُوۡنَ فَضۡلًا مِّنَ اللّٰہِ وَ رِضۡوَانًا ۫ سِیۡمَاہُمۡ فِیۡ وُجُوۡہِہِمۡ مِّنۡ اَثَرِ السُّجُوۡدِ ؕ ذٰلِکَ مَثَلُہُمۡ فِی التَّوۡرٰىۃِ ۚۖۛ وَ مَثَلُہُمۡ فِی الۡاِنۡجِیۡلِ ۚ۟ۛ کَزَرۡعٍ اَخۡرَجَ شَطۡـَٔہٗ فَاٰزَرَہٗ فَاسۡتَغۡلَظَ فَاسۡتَوٰی عَلٰی سُوۡقِہٖ یُعۡجِبُ الزُّ رَّاعَ لِیَغِیۡظَ بِہِمُ الۡکُفَّارَ ؕ وَعَدَ اللّٰہُ الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡ ا وَ عَمِلُو ا الصّٰلِحٰتِ مِنۡہُمۡ مَّغۡفِرَ ۃً وَّ اَجۡرً ا عَظِیۡمًا ﴿٪۲۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Muhammad is the Noble Messenger of Allah; and his companions are stern with the disbelievers and merciful among themselves – you will see them bowing and falling in prostration, seeking Allah’s munificence and His pleasure; their signs are on their faces, from the effects of prostrations; this trait of theirs is mentioned in the Tawrah; and their trait is mentioned in the Injeel; like a cultivation that sprouted its shoot, then strengthened it, then thickened and then stood firm upon its stem, pleasing the farmer – in order to enrage the disbelievers with them; Allah has promised forgiveness and a great reward to those among them who have faith and do good deeds. (Part 26, Surah Al-Fath, verse 29)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in verse 218 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

اُ و لٰٓئِکَ یَرۡ جُوۡ نَ رَ حۡمَتَ اللّٰہِ ؕ وَ اللّٰہُ غَفُوۡ رٌ رَّحِیۡمٌ ﴿۲۱۸﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: They are hopeful of gaining Allah’s mercy; and Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 218)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The abovementioned blessed verses clearly show how exalted and elevated is the status of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they had devoted their entire lives for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and for the sake of achieving the eminence of Deen and these great Arab warriors showed such great sacrifices for the revival of Deen that can never be forgotten. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not only rewarded them with the glad tiding of Jannah as a return of their dedicated and devoted services to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also mentioned them in the Glorious Quran in many places so that people to come until the Day of Judgement strongly inculcate love towards the blessed companions in their hearts. Besides the blessed verses of the Glorious Quran, the Revered and the Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

stated the excellences and virtues of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم with his own blessed lips, and sometimes glorified their status and honour by mentioning their blessed names.

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَكۡرِمُوا اَصۡحَابِي فَاِنَّهُمۡ خِيَارُكُمۡ ’ i.e., ‘Respect my Sahabah (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم); they are the most virtuous people from you’.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 413, Hadees 6012)

He further added: ‘ خَيۡرُ اُمَّتِي اَلۡقَرۡنُ الَّذِيۡنَ يَلُوۡنِي ثُمَّ الَّذِيۡنَ يَلُوۡنَهُمۡ ثُمَّ الَّذِيۡنَ يَلُوۡنَهُمۡ ’ The best among people are of my Ummah (i.e., blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), then those after them (i.e., Taabi’een) then those after them (i.e., Tab’-e-Taabi’een رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی). (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 2535)

There are some distinguished Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم whose blessed names were specified with their unique qualities by the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The most merciful and the kindest person of my Ummah is Abu Bakr, the best judge of my Ummah is ‘Umar Bin Khattab, the most honourable and the most modest person of my Ummah is ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan, the wisest and the bravest person of my Ummah is ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib, the most virtuous and the most trustworthy person of my Ummah is ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood, the most pious and the most truthful person of my Ummah is Abu Zar, the most worshipping and the most abstinent person of my Ummah is Abu Darda and the most tolerant and the most generous person of my Ummah is Mu’awiyah Bin Sufyan (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). (Kanz-ul-’Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33666)

Further he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Salman is the first person to enter Jannah amongst the people of Faaras, Suhayb is the first person to enter Jannah amongst the Roomis and Bilal is the first person to enter Jannah amongst the people of Habshah. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33672)

All my blessed Sahabah (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are beloved and noble in my sight even if he is a Habashi slave. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 345, Hadees 33674)

نمایاں ہیں اِسلام کے گلستاں میں ہر اِک گل پہ رنگِ بہارِ صحابہ

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! How excellently the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم showed the great eminence & prominence of his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the desire of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that his Ummah must show great respect and reverence towards his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Therefore, we should have true love towards the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم by acting upon the blessed saying of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and we should lead our lives while following their excellent character and their way of living because these are those blessed people about whom the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَصۡحَابِي كَالنُّجُوۡمِ فَبِاَيِّهِمۡ اِقۡتَدَيۡتُمۡ اِهۡتَدَيۡتُمۡ ’ My companions are like (guiding) stars. Whomsoever you follow, you will be guided (on the right path).

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6018)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, the renowned commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What an impressive and striking comparison is given here! The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم called them the guiding stars and in another blessed Hadees, the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have been compared to Sayyiduna Nabi Nuh’s ark. Those who travel by sea need a boat or ship and the guidance of stars as well, because ferries and boats seek the guidance of stars; similarly, the Muslim Ummah needs both the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for guidance.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 179)

اَہلِ سُنَّت کا ہے بیڑا پار، اَصحابِ حُضور نجم ہیں اور ناؤ ہے عِترت رَسُولُ الله کی

Dear Islamic brothers! The matchless character and the way of living of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is of great importance in terms of receiving Tarbiyyat (training and guidance). The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مِثۡلُ اَصۡحَابِيۡ فِيۡ اُمَّتِيۡ كَالۡمِلۡحِ فِي الطَّعَامِ لَا يَصۡلَحُ الطَّعَامُ اِلَّا بِالۡمِلۡحِ ’ i.e., The likeness of my Sahabah [blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ] is like salt in the food. Food is not good without it. (Sharh-us-Sunnah, vol. 7, pp. 76, Hadees 3863)

As salt is used in a very little quantity but it makes food taste good, similarly, my Sahabah (blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are little in quantity amongst my Ummah but are the source of everyone’s reform. The first carriage of a train that is attached is with an engine and connects the entire train because it is pulled by the engine.

Enlightening on the excellence and prominence of the blessed Sahabah Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Whoever wants to go on a straight path should follow them and act upon their way of lives as there is a great probability for people to be overcome by any Fitnah (turmoil). The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are the most superior people of all amongst the whole Ummah, they are the most pious, they possess the greatest amount of knowledge and their deeds are devoid of formalities, they are those blessed and fortunate people who are chosen by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the services of his Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Do recognise their eminence and greatness, follow their way of lives and learn from their matchless courtesy and character; indeed, these people are on the straight path.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 57, Hadees 193)

خلافت اِمامت وِلایت کرامت ہر اِک فضل پر اِقتدارِ صحابہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! How beautifully Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ enlightened us on the excellence and eminence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Undoubtedly, every blessed companion of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a source of guidance because these blessed companions were privileged to attain the blessed company of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which brought them great status that can never be attained by any non-Sahabi.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Your spending of gold equal to a mountain in charity cannot be equal to a Mad of any of my Sahabi [blessed companion] or even half of that. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 522, Hadees 3673)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان, with reference to the abovementioned Hadees has described that 4 Mads are equal to 1 ‘Saa’ and 1 Saa’ is equal to 4 ¼ Sèr so 1 Mad is equal to 1 1 / 8 Sèr. Hence it can be deduced, ‘My companion gives away about 1 ¼ Sèr barley in charity whereas any other Muslim whether he is a Ghaus or a Qutb or a common Muslim donates gold equivalent to a mountain, his gold cannot exceed the companion’s 1¼ Sèr barley in recognition and Divine approval and similar is the case with Salah, fasting and all other worships. When 2 Rak’aat Salah offered in Masjid-un-Nabawi is equal to 50,000 Salah offered at other places, how high will be the reverence of those who were bestowed with the holy company of the Most Beloved Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and how admirable will be their deeds!

Dear Islamic brothers! Since the biggest virtue of any Muslim cannot equal the smallest virtue of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, similarly, no matter how elevated in status or rank a great saint, Ghaus and Qutb has, even if they have great saintly miracles, still, he cannot achieve the position of any Sahabi.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah Mufti ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: All the blessed scholars have agreement on this matter that the blessed Sahabah Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are superior to the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی i.e., all the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی including those who would come until the Day of Judgement may attain the highest status of Wilayat (sainthood) but

can never achieve the distinction of any blessed Sahabi. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed these guiding stars with such a prominent position that all other saints can never imagine to have that elevation & notability. Though, many miracles may not have been displayed by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as compared to the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی ; but remember that an abundance of miracles is not the evidence of superiority, because Wilayat (sainthood) means closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The more one attains this quality, the higher rank he possesses. Since the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم imbued with the blessings of the most Renowned and Revered Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so the Divine proximity they have, is uniquely only for them.

(Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 53)

یہ مُہریں ہیں فرمانِ ختم الرسل کی ہے دِینِ خدا شاہکارِ صحابہ

Dear Islamic brothers! It is understood that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have been elevated to such an unmatched stage by blessing them with a highly revered status that it would be impossible for anyone else to reach, these blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم rendered matchless sacrifices in which they not only devoted all their possessions for the revival and propagation of Islam but they also never hesitated to lay down their lives by undergoing great tribulations while at the time of migration.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We are Muslims, today, we have Divine commands in the form of the Glorious Quran and blessed sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the form of Ahadees-e-Karimah; this is also the outcome of their lifelong struggles; therefore, we should have true devotion and affection towards them by treading in their footsteps continue refraining from any kind of insulting actions or talks and always keeping ourselves engaged in glorifying them.

The blessed scholars state: Whenever the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are mentioned, it is obligatory to honor them with high and glowing praises. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 252)

Remember! Making claims of having love towards the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not sufficient at all for pursuing the pleasure of the most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, rather, it entails the great respect and reverence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as well, otherwise showing any kind of contempt towards them may displease the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

‘Allamah Yusuf Bin Isma’eel Nabhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه quotes a narration of Abu ‘Ali Qahtaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: In my dream, I found myself in the Jaami’ Masjid Sharqiyah, I saw the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم accompanied by two men, I did not know them; I humbly said Salam in the court of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not respond; I humbly said, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I send Durood upon you in such and such quantity and you have not replied to my Salam?’ The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You do send Durood upon me but you show contempt towards my blessed companions.’ I humbly said, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I seek forgiveness on your blessed hand, I would not do this again.’ The most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then responded to my Salaam: ‘ وَعَلَيۡكَ السَّلَامُ وَرَحۡمَ ةُ اللّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُه ٗ ’.

(Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 163)

بَہرِ صِدّیق و عُمَر عُثماں علی کیجئے رَحمت اے نانائے حُسین

سب صَحابہ کا وَسیلہ سیِّدا کیجئے رَحمت اے نانائے حُسین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have come to know that besides reciting an abundance of Salat upon the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while having profound love towards him, we must also have true love and affection for all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ having true reverence and love towards some of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and showing

contempt towards other blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, will lead to the displeasure and curse of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna ‘Uwaym Bin Saa’idah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has chosen me and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has chosen my companions for me. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made some of them my deputies, my helpers and my relatives; ‘ فَمَنۡ سَبَّهُمۡ فَعَلَيۡهِ لَعۡنَ ةُ اللّٰهِ وَالۡمَلَائِكَةِ وَالنَّاسِ اَجۡمَعِيۡنَ ’, thus, anyone who curses them has the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on him, and of the angels, and of all people; ‘ لَا يَقۡبَلُ اللّٰهُ مِنۡهُ يَوۡمَ الۡقِيَامَ ةِ صَرۡفًا وَّلَا عَدۡلًا ’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not accept any of his obligatory action nor his supererogatory act.

(As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 4)

Further he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the rights of my Ashaab (companions). Have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Do not criticise them after me, the one who loved them; he did so out of my love. And the one who had malice towards them; (it is as if) he had hatred towards me, the one who persecuted them, has persecuted me, the one who persecuted me, surely has displeased Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the one who displeased Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is about to be arrested (captured for punishment) by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6014)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: ‘ وَمَنۡ اَسَاءَ الۡقَوۡلَ فِيۡ اَصۡحَابِيۡ كَانَ مُخَالِفًا لِسُنَّتِيۡ ’ i.e., whoever speaks ill of my companions (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), has gone astray from my way, ‘ مَأۡوَاهُ النَّارُ وَبِئۡسَ الۡمَصِيۡرُ ’ and his abode is Hell – and worst, indeed, is that destination! (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen, according to the blessed Hadees, those who bear hatred and malice towards the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم deserve the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, of the angels, and of all people. Those who

commit blasphemy against the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and those who join the company of such people earn the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and destroy their Hereafter, and are not privileged to recite the Kalimah during the pangs of death.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی reported: A person was in the pangs of death, when he was asked to recite the Kalimah, he replied, I am unable to recite because I used to join the company of such people who used to encourage me to speak ill of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr and Sayyiduna ‘Umar (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا). (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 38)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the terrible consequence of that most unfortunate person who was unable to recite the Kalimah in the state of Naza’ (deathbed) and those unfortunate people who themselves speak ill of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are made as examples of warning in the world. Let’s listen to some incidents in this regard.

Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was going somewhere. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by a person who was speaking ill of the blessed companions Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Sayyiduna Talhah and Sayyiduna Zubayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to that insulter: Refrain from speaking ill of my brothers or I will curse you. The fearless insulter said that are you frightening me as if you are a Prophet. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Wudu (ablution), entered a Masjid and after performing two Rak’aat [cycle] of Salah, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ prayed with these words in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! If he has displeased You by speaking ill of the glorious companions of Your Beloved Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), punish him today, show me a sign and make him an example of warning for the true believers. (He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had just uttered this words) when suddenly a camel went charged through the rows of the people and fell on that insulter with its teeth, then the camel crushed him to death. It is stated: (After his death) people came to Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ running and said: O Abu Ishaaq! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has answered your prayer (and the enemy of the blessed companions has been destroyed).

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 6, pp. 190)

جس قدر جنّ و بشر میں تھے صَحابہ شاہ کے

سب کو بھی بے شک ،خصوصًا چار یاروں کو سلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Khalaf Bin Tameem رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna Abul Haseeb Basheer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه told me: by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ I was a very wealthy trader. I had plenty of luxuries and I would often live in [different] cities of Iran. Once, one of my employees informed me that a man had died in so-and-so traveller’s lodge where he had no heirs and now his corpse was not shrouded. When I reached that traveller’s lodge, I found his dead body so I placed a sheet over him. His companions told me that he was a devoted worshipper and a pious man, but today, there is no shroud for him and we do not have enough money that we can arrange for his funeral rites.

After being informed of that, I sent a person man to buy a shroud and one to dig a grave, paying each of them for their tasks and we began to prepare unbaked bricks. We were busy doing these tasks when suddenly, the dead person sat up, bricks [which were placed on his belly] fell down from him and he began to cry in a terrible voice: ‘Alas! Fire, alas! Death, alas! Destruction! Ah! Fire, ah! Death, ah! Destruction!’ When his companions witnessed this frightening scene, they stepped back. I went up to him, shook him whilst holding his arm and asked him who he was and what’s his situation. He replied, ‘Unfortunately, I had filthy company of such wicked people who would swear Shaykhayn Karimayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) i.e. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar and Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا). I would also swear them and show hatred because of being in their evil company and.

Sayyiduna Abul Haseeb رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Having heard his words, I recited Istighfar and said, ‘O wretched man! You should then be punished severely.’ (Then I asked him) How have you come to life after having died? He replied, ‘My good deeds did not benefit me at all. After I died, I was dragged towards Hell where the fire was blazing. I was shown my abode there. I was

then told that soon my life would be brought back to me so that I could inform my evil companions of my painful consequence and tell them that the one who makes an enemy of the pious bondmen of Allah, he suffers a painful consequence in the Hereafter. When you would have informed them about your condition, you would then be thrown into your real abode (i.e. Hell). I have been revived to give this piece of news so the insulters of the blessed companions can derive a lesson from this condition of mine and refrain from blasphemy or anyone who commits blasphemy against the blessed companions will suffer the terrible consequence like mine. After saying this much, he died again.

Other people standing at a distance also heard the warnings that he had mentioned. I took the shroud back which I had bought and said, ‘I will not arrange the funeral rites of this evil man who is an offender of Shaykhayn Karimayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا). You may carry on with it. I cannot even endure staying here anymore.’ I then left that place. I was later informed that his evil companions gave him a bath, shrouded him and only those people performed his funeral Salah, because no other person even bothered to attend it.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 247)

محفوظ سدا رکھنا شہا بے اَدَبو ں سے اور مجھ سے بھی سَرزد نہ کبھی بے اَدَبی ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how severe and terrible consequences that insulter of Shaykhayn Karimayn had suffered! We should therefore avoid the company of such wicked people and only join the company of lovers of the Beloved Rasool, true lovers of the blessed companions, the honourable Ahl-e-Bayt and the blessed Awliya and illuminate our hearts with the candle of love of these glorious personalities and become deserving of goodness in both the worlds. Love for the pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be of great help in the grave as well as on the Day of Resurrection.

A person has stated: A friend of my teacher died. My teacher dreamt of him and asked: ‘ مَا فَعَلَ اللّٰهُ بِكَ ؟ ’ i.e. How did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you? He replied: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forgiven me. My teacher asked: How did Munkar Nakeer treat

you? He answered: They made me sit and began to ask me questions. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ placed this in my heart and I said to them: Leave me for the sake of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr and Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . Upon hearing this, one angel said to the other, he has presented the names of honourable, saintly intercessors therefore, leave him. Hence, they left me and returned.

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who love the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are beloved to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In fact, those fortunate people will be granted the special privilege of closeness to the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement.

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever has devotion towards my blessed companions, Azwaaj (blessed wives of our Beloved Prophet) and Ahl-e-Bayt (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) and does not criticize any of them and departs from this world with their love, he will be with me on the Day of Judgement under my rank.

(Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

There is also a glad tiding of deliverance for the devotee of blessed companions. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنۡ اَحۡسَنَ الۡقَوۡلَ فِيۡ اَصۡحَابِيۡ فَقَدۡ بَرِئَ مِنَ النِّفَاقِ ’ i.e., whoever spoke well of my blessed companions has sought deliverance from hypocrisy. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

رحمتیں لاکھوں ابُو بکر و عُمر عُثمان پر میرے مَولٰی حیدرِ کَرَّار پر لاکھوں سلام

ہے یقینًا ہر صحابی جاں نثارِ مُصطفٰے ہر مُہاجر اور ہر اَنصار پر لاکھوں سلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Since the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have attained such a great eminence and exaltation, various books and booklets have been authored on their blessed life history from time immemorial and until now this is continued with great spirit.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Maktaba-tul-Madinah (the publication unit of Dawat-e-Islami) has published two thick volumes on the biographies of Shaykhayn Karimayn (Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq and Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) namely ‘ Faizan-e-Siddeeq-e-Akbar ’ as well as many booklets on the life history of 6 blessed companions have been published. Besides, ‘ Karamat-e-Sahabah ’ a remarkable publication focussed on the distinctive miracles of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم can also be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Furthermore, ‘ Faizan-e-Ummuhat-ul-Mu`mineen ’, ‘ Faizan-e-‘Aaishah Siddiqah ’ and ‘ Shan-e-Khatoon-e-Jannat ’ are also available and made online which can be read, downloaded and printed out as well: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard about the great eminence of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are the best amongst all humans, the most praiseworthy and the most deserving of honour and reverence after the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . These distinguished blessed companions embraced Islam saying ‘Labbayk’ in the response of the call of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and sacrificed all their resources and even their lives with full devotion and dedication for the sake of elevating the status of Islam and propagating it all across the world. Their unparalleled and unrivalled sacrifice is beyond one’s imagination and description. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the true devotion towards them and privilege us to tread in the footstep of blessed companions.

Majlis ‘Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ consists of the ‘Ulama (scholars) and Muftis of Dawat-e-Islami. This Majlis has ambitiously taken on the responsibility of serving the religion in the areas of Islamic sciences, research and publications. It has the following six Shu’bahs (departments).

1. Shu’bah Kutub A’la Hadrat (books of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه)

2. Shu’bah Darsi Kutub (syllabus books)

3. Shu’bah Islahi Kutub (edifying books)

4. Shu’bah Tafteesh-e-Kutub (scrutiny of books)

5. Shu’bah Takhreej (references of quotes)

6. Shu’bah Tarajim Kutub (translation of books)

Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’s topmost priority is to present the precious books of A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن in an easily understandable way meeting the needs of the present age.

For refraining from sins, carrying out virtues and arousing the yearning for Makka-tul-Mukarramah and Madina-tul-Munawwarah, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and travel in Madani Qafilahs with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; furthermore, commit yourself to take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Sada-e-Madinah is also one of the 12 Madani activities. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the term Sada-e-Madinah refers to ‘awaking Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr’. Awaking Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr is (undoubtedly) an act of great reward and something that every Muslim should definitely do. It is a Sunnah of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to wake up people on the way when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would leave his house for Salat-ul-Fajr even after the ‘call to prayer’ (Azan), if he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ finds anybody sleeping in the Masjid, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would awaken him.

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263)

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has also given his disciples and followers this Madani activity of ‘Sada- e- Madinah’ in the Madani In’amaat. Undoubtedly, daily hundreds of Muslims awaken other Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr, acting upon the Sunnah of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and they collect plenty of virtues as well. Let’s listen to a Madani parable:

‘I was a fashionable youngster and would often watch movies. Fortunately, I once listened to a Sunnah-Inspiring speech titled ‘ The Perils of Television ’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah . That speech transformed my life, inspiring me to join the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I suffered from appendicitis, and the doctors had advised me to have an operation for its treatment. I was terrified. Meanwhile, as a result of the individual efforts of a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami, I travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah with lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, for the first time in my life. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, my disease was cured without any operation. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, highly inspired by this, I now travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month. Furthermore, I hand in my Madani In’amaat booklet every month and awaken Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr every morning acting upon the Madani In’aam of Sada-e-Madinah .’

بے عمل باعمل بنتے ہیں سَر بَسر تُو بھی اے بھائی کر قافِلے میں سفر

اچّھی صُحبت سے ٹھنڈا ہو تیرا جگر کاش! کر لے اگر قافِلے میں سفر

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 115, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

3. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl/Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mira-tul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

4. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

Ü Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

Ü Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

Ü Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

