اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Method of Staying Safe from Calamities

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep getting the reward of I’tikaf. Remember! There is no Shar’i permission to eat and drink, sleep or do Sahari and Iftari even to drink Zamzam water and the water on which Dam has been made in a Masjid. However, if the intention of I’tikaf is made, all these acts will become permissible. One should not make intention to observe I’tikaf only to eat, drink or sleep, but rather he should do it for pleasing Allah Almighty. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: If someone wants to eat, drink, sleep in a Masjid, he should make intention to observe I’tikaf, do Zikr of Allah Almighty for some time, then whatever he wants he can do (i.e. now if he wants to eat, drink or sleep, he can do so.).

Excellence of reciting Durood

In blessed Tirmizi, a famous book of blessed Ahadees, it is stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَا جَلَسَ قَوْمٌ مَجْلِسًا لَمْ يَذْكُرُوا اللَّهَ فِيهِ، وَلَمْ يُصَلُّوا عَلَى

نَبِيِّهِمْ اِلَّا كَانَ عَلَيْهِمْ تِرَةً فَاِنْ شَآ ءَ عَذَّبَهُمْ وَ اِنْ شَا ءَ غَفَرَ لَهُم

i.e. The people who sit in any such gathering in which they neither do the Zikr of Allah Almighty nor recite Durood upon their [Beloved] Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), so [on the Judgement Day] the gathering will bring about wistfulness for them. Thus if Allah Almighty wills so He may torment them and if He wills, He may forgive [them]. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 247, Hadees 3391)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s, first of all, make good intentions for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and for attaining rewards. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 . Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 . When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 . After the Bayan, I will approach other people by saying Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some faith-refreshing events and parables of staying safe from calamities by virtue of the blessing of Sadaqah. Let’s, first of all, listen to a faith refreshing parable.

Woman found her drowned son by virtue of the blessing of Sadaqah

Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: There was a country whose king was very cruel and stingy. He made this announcement in his country, ‘No one shall give anything in Sadaqah to any Faqeer and Miskeen [1] [i.e. very destitute], and nor shall anyone help any poor person. If anyone does so, I will cut off his hand.’ Having heard this news everyone was scared and feared from giving Sadaqah. One day, a helpless Faqeer [i.e. poor person] went to a woman and said, ‘Please give me something to eat for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ The woman said, ‘Our king has announced that the hand of the person who will give Sadaqah to anyone will be cut off. How can I give you anything now?’ The poor person said, ‘Give me something to eat for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ Filled with pity for him, the woman gave him two rotis (bread) for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ignoring the displeasure and punishment from the king. Taking rotis the poor person left, making Du’a for her. When the king became aware that such and such a woman had violated his order, he sent two soldiers who cut off both of her hands.

After some time, the king said to his mother, ‘Tell me about the most beautiful woman; I will marry her.’ His mother replied, ‘In our country, there is a woman who is the most beautiful one in my opinion. I have never seen any other woman more beautiful than her, but there is a big defect in her. Both of her hands are cut off.’ The king ordered that the woman be brought to his court. The order was carried out and the king married her with her consent. They started living happily. Other wives of the king started feeling

jealous day and night and tried all the time to degrade the new bride in front of the king, but they could not succeed in their evil plan. Once, the king went to fight a war for a long period of time. Seizing the opportunity, the other wives sent a letter to the king, saying, ‘In your absence, your new bride has become unfaithful to you and has even given birth to a baby.’ When the king received this letter, he sent a message to his mother, saying that the woman [i.e. his new wife] along with the baby be turned out of the country. Therefore, with a piece of cloth around her neck and the new-born baby in it, she was turned out of the country and forced to live in a remote jungle where she continued to wander here and there. She was very thirsty and reached a stream in search of water. As she bowed down to drink water, her child fell into the water and began to drown. Seeing her drowning son, she began to cry.

In the meantime, two beautiful young men came and asked her the reason for crying. She said, ‘My son has drowned and I am crying for the same reason, grieving for him.’ The beautiful young men asked, ‘Do you want us to bring your drowned child back to you?’ She anxiously said, ‘Yes, I want Allah Almighty to return me, my drowned child.’ These young men made Du’a and brought her drowned son back and handed him over to her. They then asked, ‘O kind-hearted woman! Do you want to be blessed with both of your hands once again so that you are no longer handicapped?’ She replied, ‘Yes, I want it.’ Therefore, the two young men made Du’a and she was blessed with her hands once again. The woman thanked Allah Almighty. The young men then asked: O great woman! Do you know who we are? The woman replied that she did not recognize them. They said, ‘We are the very same two rotis you gave to a helpless poor person.’ (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 226, summarised)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that the Sadaqah given in the path of Allah Almighty for His pleasure does not prove fruitless. In addition to the Sawab (reward) of the Hereafter, one also receives many blessings in the world and remains safe from many troubles, as happened to this woman. She felt pity for a hungry person and gave him two rotis as Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Even though she had to face difficulties for the time being – as other wives of the king conspired against her, both of her hands were cut off, she was turned out of the country and her son drowned

سی برکات نصیب ہوتیں اور کئی بلاؤں سے حفاظت ہوتی ہے جیسا کہ اس عورت کے ساتھ ہوا کہ جب اس نے اللہ پاک کی رضا کی خاطر ایک بھوکےشخص پررحم کھا کر 2 روٹیاں صدقہ کیں تو اگرچہ وقتی طور پر اس پر آزمائشیں آئیں،اس کے خلاف سازشیں کی گئیں، ہاتھ کاٹ دئیے گئے، ملک سے نکال دیا گیا،بچہ نہر میں ڈُوب گیا مگر اس نیک عورت كو دیکھئے کہ اس قدر آفتوں کے باوجود صبرو استقامت کے ساتھ حالات کا مقابلہ کرتی رہی تو اللہ پاک نے بھی اس کی غیبی امدادفرمائی۔اس ایمان افروز واقعے سے ہم بھی سبق حاصل کرتے ہوئے اپنا مَدَنی ذہن بنائیں کہ جب کوئی مصیبت، تکلیف،بیماری یاپریشانی وغیرہ گھیر لے تو ہمیں بے صبری كرتے ہوئے شکوے شکایات کرنے کے بجائے اللہ پاک کی رضا پر راضی رہنا چاہیے۔مشکلات کے حل اور بَلاؤں سے حفاظت کے لئے اللہ پاک کی رضا کی خاطر صدقہ و خیرات کرنے كی عادت بنانی چاہیے مگر اس بات کا خیال رہے کہ ہمارے صدقات حق دار کے علاوہ کسی اور کے ہاتھ میں نہ چلے جائیں کیونکہ آج کل ہر طرف پیشہ ور بھکاریوں اور گداگروں کی بھرمار ہے،جنہوں نےمحنت مزدُوری کے بجائے بھیک مانگنے کو باقاعدہ اپنا پیشہ بنارکھا ہے، چنانچہ

حضرت علامہ مولانا مفتی محمدامجد علی اعظمی رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہ فرماتے ہیں: آج کل ایک عام مصیبت یہ پھیلی ہوئی ہے کہ اچھّے خاصے تَنْدُرُست (Healthy) چاہیں تو کما کر اَوروں (دوسروں) کو کھلائیں مگر انہوں نے اپنے وُجُود کو بیکارقرار دے رکھا ہے،کون محنت کرے، مُصِیبَت برداشت کرے،بے (بغیر) محنت مل جائے تو تکلیف کیوں برداشت کریں۔ناجائز طور پر سُوال کرتے اور بھیک مانگ کر پیٹ بھرتے ہیں،بہت سے ایسے ہیں کہ مَزدُوری تو مَزدُوری، چھوٹی موٹی تجارت کو شرم و ذِلّت کا کام خیال کرتےاوربھیک مانگنا کہ حقیقۃً ایسوں کے لئے بے عزّتی و بے غیرتی ہے،عزّت کا سبب جانتے ہیں اورکئی لوگوں نے توبھیک مانگنا اپناپیشہ (Profession) بنا رکھا ہے، گھر میں ہزاروں روپے ہیں،سُود کا لَین دین

many benefits. Valuing it if we fulfil its rights, i.e. if we are careful about purifying it by paying Zakah etc., it will become a means of salvation for us in the world as well as in the Hereafter. Further, Allah Almighty will get pleased with us and we will be protected from troubles and calamities. Therefore, instead of confining yourself to giving Sadaqah and charity only in the month of Ramadan, form the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity throughout the year. Also, persuade other Islamic brothers to do the same. It is the great deed which has been praised and we have been persuaded to give Sadaqah at several places in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 18 of Surah Al-Hadeed, part 27, Allah Almighty has said:

اِنَّ الْمُصَّدِّقِیْنَ وَ الْمُصَّدِّقٰتِ وَ اَقْرَضُوا اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا یُّضٰعَفُ لَهُمْ وَ لَهُمْ اَجْرٌ كَرِیْمٌ(۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the charitable men and women, and those who lend a good loan to Allah, for them is double (the reward), and for them is an honourable reward.

Similarly, the virtues of giving Sadaqah and charity have also been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to five sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for persuasion and make the intention to give Sadaqah and charity:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sadaqah closes 70 doors of evil. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 4402)

2 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it [Sadaqah] becomes a shield between him and fire. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 286, Hadees 4617)

3 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Give Sadaqah and treat your patients with [through] Sadaqah. Undoubtedly, Sadaqah prevents accidents and illnesses and it brings about increase in your deeds and virtues. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 282, Hadees 3556)

4 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Give Sadaqah early in the morning as calamity does not step ahead of Sadaqah .

(Shu’ab-ul- Iman, vol. 3, pp. 214, Hadees 3353)

5 . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly, Sadaqah extinguishes the wrath of Allah Almighty and prevents bad death.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 146, Hadees 664)

Commenting on the last blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: A generous person, giving charity, leads a happy life and does not suffer from worldly troubles. If he ever faces tests and trials, Allah Almighty blesses him with the peace of heart which helps him to have patience and earns him reward.

In short, trouble does not lead him to commit any sin, but rather it brings him forgiveness. Bad death implies bad end or sudden death in heedlessness or it implies the appearance of a bad sign at the time of death, bringing him into disrepute after death or it implies a severe disease that makes the dying person extremely anxious, causing him to become heedless of the Zikr of Allah Almighty. In short, the generous person will remain safe from all these evils. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sadaqah closes the doors of evils; Sadaqah extinguishes the wrath of Allah Almighty; Sadaqah provides cure for the ill; Sadaqah is a means of protection from accidents; Sadaqah increases good deeds and saves from bad death. But regretfully! Despite having so many virtues of Sadaqah, we hesitate to spend on good acts. Perhaps this is the reason why each of us suffers from different types of troubles. Someone is facing domestic and family quarrel, so someone is worried due to their business and job. In short, people are suffering from different diseases, facing different difficulties and problems; people do not get cured of diseases even after being treated by doctors; domestic quarrels occur frequently; even educated young men are miserably looking for jobs; poverty is increasing; creditors are facing great troubles for the recovery of their money; many debtors are being burdened with heavy debts; crimes are increasing; surely all these are the consequence of our bad deeds. Remember! Difficulties and diseases are part of one’s life. Therefore, instead of complaining about them

and feeling disappointed, one should perform good deeds with sincerity, refrain from sins and get into the habit of giving Sadaqah as Sadaqah not only saves a person from calamities but by virtue of the blessing of it he is also blessed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with reward.

How did earth turn to nice flour?

Sayyiduna ‘Ata رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated from his father: Once the respected wife of a famous pious person Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him, ‘We have no more flour and have nothing to eat.’ Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Do you have any money to buy flour?’ She humbly replied, ‘I have one dirham which I have got by selling wool.’ He said, ‘Give me the dirham; I will buy flour.’ Taking the dirham and a bag, he went to the marketplace. When he intended to buy flour from a shop, a beggar suddenly came and said, ‘O Abu Muslim Kholaani! Give me this dirham as Sadaqah. Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the shop and went to another one.

As he intended to buy flour, the same beggar came again and said, ‘O Abu Muslim Kholaani! I am very helpless; give me this dirham as Sadaqah.’ The beggar continued to follow him. Eventually, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him the dirham. He began to think ‘What will now I give to my family? Seeing the empty bag, they will get worried’, he thought to himself anxiously. He then went to a carpenter shop where he filled his bag with sawdust and soil and walked home. He knocked on the door and the door was opened. As the door opened, he handed over the bag to his family and returned even without entering home.

Thinking that his family would get worried after they found out that the bag was full of sawdust and soil, Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani became very worried and did not go home all day long. On the other hand, when his respected wife opened the bag, it was full of very high-quality flour. Therefore, she cooked food quickly and began to wait for him. Late night, he secretly entered home, so his respected wife brought him fresh rotis at once. Amazed to see the rotis he asked, ‘Where did you get these rotis from?’ His respected wife replied, ‘These are the rotis from the flour you had brought.’

Listening to it he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه began to cry and thanked Allah Almighty for turning the soil to flour and keeping his dignity intact.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 170, slightly amended)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Have you heard? Giving Sadaqah and helping the poor are liked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ very much. If a Muslim pleases the hearts of the poor by sincerely giving them Sadaqah and charity, Allah Almighty, Who bestows respect upon His bondman, does not let him feel embarrassed in front of anyone despite his poverty. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows upon him even more than his expectation, as has been understood by the above-mentioned parable. Despite being a needy person, Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the amount of flour in the Divine path as Sadaqah which was accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who turned sawdust and soil to good quality flour. In this way, he and his family members were blessed with excellent rotis. Therefore, while giving Sadaqah and charity, we should not have such thoughts as ‘ our money will decrease or what will we eat? Or we need money for such-and-such a piece of work, etc.’

Remember! Apparently, it seems to us that our wealth will decrease but in fact, Sadaqah increases our wealth and we get many benefits in the world as well as in the Hereafter. However, if we do not give Sadaqah due to the fear of decrease in our wealth, it may remove blessings from our sustenance and may cause poverty.

Sayyidatuna Asma رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to her, ‘Do not stop Sadaqah and charity lest your sustenance is stopped.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 483, Hadees 1433)

Commenting on the above-mentioned Hadees, Sayyiduna Imam Badruddin ‘Ayni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Do not refrain from giving your wealth in Sadaqah for fear that it will finish; Allah Almighty will make you suffer from financial problems or will prevent wealth from you and will deprive you of the means of sustenance. The blessed Hadees proves that Sadaqah increases wealth and is a means of blessing and increase in it. On the other hand, if a

person is a miser and does not give Sadaqah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will reduce his wealth and will prevent blessing and (there will be no) increase in his wealth. (‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 6, pp. 410, Taht-al-Hadees: 1433)

Anyhow, we should form the habit of giving as much Sadaqah and charity as possible for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. We should also have absolute trust in Him, hoping to be blessed with a better reward for our Sadaqah in the world as well as in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to a parable about how absolute trust our pious predecessors had in Allah Almighty.

Twenty rotis in return for two; how?

Two pious persons once came to Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا to meet her and started talking to each other, saying, ‘If Raabi’ah serves us food this time, it will be something very good because we will be able to eat Halal sustenance here.’ At that time, she had only two rotis at her home which she put in front of them. In the meantime, a beggar came and asked for something to eat. Picking up those two roties, she gave them to the beggar. Those two personages were surprised to see it. Soon a slave girl arrived at her home holding many hot rotis and humbly said, ‘My madam has sent them.’ When Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا counted them, they were 18 in number. Seeing it she said to the slave girl, ‘Perhaps you have had some misunderstanding. These rotis have been sent to someone else, not to me. But the slave girl said, ‘I am sure these have been sent to you.’ However, Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا sent them back despite her repeated insistence. After the slave girl returned and told the whole story to her madam, she said, ‘Add two more rotis to them and then take them. When the slave girl came with twenty rotis, Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا counted them and then she served them to her guests.

After both of the guests had eaten food, they asked about the reason for what she did. So, she explained, ‘When you came, I realized that you were hungry. Therefore, I served you what I had at home. In the meantime, a beggar came and asked for something to eat, so I gave those two rotis to him and made Du’a to Allah Almighty, ‘O Allah Almighty! You have promised that You give ‘ten’ in return for ‘one’ and I have absolute trust in Your promise.’ When the slave girl brought eighteen rotis, I realized that there was definitely

something wrong. I, therefore, sent them back, but when she brought twenty rotis, I accepted them by considering it to be the fulfilment of the Divine promise. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 68)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed wealth upon His bondmen. Some of His bondmen help their Muslim brothers by giving them Sadaqah and charity; they spend money generously on the construction of Masajid, Madaris and other religious activities; some fortunate people help poor Islamic students in a way that they buy copies of the Holy Quran for some students and for some students they buy books; some devotees of Rasool take on the responsibility of the monthly salaries of the teachers and Madani staff of Jami’aat and Madaris; some fortunate individuals are privileged to take on the responsibility of paying the kitchen expenses of Jami’aat and Madaris; some make contribution to the construction of Masajid and some others pay the wages of the Imams and Muazzins.

On the contrary, some people are no doubt wealthy, but they are stingy. They do not even spend money on fulfilling the rights of their own family members, let alone spending money on the well-wishing of Muslims and on other virtuous deeds. Even if you tell them countless virtues and blessings of giving Sadaqah and charity in the Divine path, they do not have pity for any poor person. If they are requested to give financial assistance for the construction of a Masjid and Madrasah etc. and for other good deeds, they get rid of the matter by saying, ‘ I am short of money these days. Please, come to me later on ’. On the other hand, when they suffer from any illness or get into debt or suffer a loss in business or their factory catches fire, so they think about sympathizing with the poor, helping them, constructing Masajid and Madaris and giving Sadaqah and charity.

O devotees of Rasool! There is an important point to remember. There may be a Muslim who has been suffering from diseases for a long period of time or who has been in huge debts for many years or often suffers loss in his business or has sustained a loss of hundreds of thousands of rupees or

millions of rupees due to his factory, shop or house catching fire or even any of his close relatives has died. Satan may exploit the situation and whisper to us on these occasions. Satan may make us have a bad assumption about him, making us think that such-and-such a person is suffering loss simply because he is a miser and does not give Sadaqah and charity. He feels uneasy and uncomfortable when it comes to spending in the Divine path. He even dislikes it. Remember! On such an occasion, we must reject these satanic whispers because we do not know for sure that such and such a Muslim has suffered from such-and-such a disease because of his miserliness or he has suffered such-and-such a trouble because of not giving Sadaqah and charity. We should always have a good assumption about every Muslim. We do not know what the rank of a person in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is. We do not know whose Sadaqah and charity He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will accept. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to protect the honour of every Muslim and bless us with the great wealth of having a good assumption about Muslims! Aameen

O devotees of Rasool! Accursed Satan prevents a person from spending in virtuous acts by making him feel the fear of reduction in wealth. Before we suffer from any trouble or face any calamity, we should keep giving Sadaqah and charity so that we can stay safe from upcoming calamities. Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing parables about it and make the intention to give Sadaqah and charity.

How did child survive?

Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘A woman was about to eat a morsel. Meanwhile, a beggar came and asked for food. She gave the same morsel to the beggar. After some time, she gave birth to a baby. When her child grew a little, a wolf took him away. The woman ran after the wolf calling out ‘My Son! My Son! Allah Almighty ordered an angel to go after the wolf and snatch the child from the wolf (and hand him over to his mother) and say to his mother: ‘Allah Almighty has sent Salam to you and said that this morsel is in return for [your] morsel’. (Al-Mujalisah wa-Jawahir-ul-‘Ilm, vol. 3, pp. 277, Hadees 3622)

One roti saved from destruction

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There was a person before you who would take out baby birds from their nest every time. The bird made a complaint against him to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘If he continues to do the same, he will be destroyed.’ The same person that year when left his home with a ladder to catch the baby birds, he found a beggar on the way. He gave the beggar a roti out of his provisions. He then climbed up the tree and caught the baby birds. The parents of the baby birds were watching this scene. They humbly said in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘O Allah Almighty! You promised us that he will be destroyed this time, but he is going absolutely safe and sound. Allah Almighty said, ‘Don’t you know that the person who gives something in Sadaqah on any day, I do not destroy him that day nor does any evil reach him that day.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 159, Hadees 16112)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf – one Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard! These parables contain amazing blessings of Sadaqah. In the first parable, a woman attained the blessing of giving a morsel in Sadaqah as an angel saved her child from the mouth of a wolf and returned him to her and thus the life of the child was saved. In the second parable, the person who would take out baby birds from their nest stayed safe from the destruction because he also gave a roti in Sadaqah on the way. Therefore develop the feeling of the poverty of the poor; help them in their bad times by giving them Sadaqah. In order to attain this Madani thought, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and participate practically in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah and present people the call towards righteousness.

Remember! One weekly Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’ [Holiday I’tikaf]. On a holiday, Islamic

brothers go to specific areas and the surrounding villages of the city and stay in the Masajid of these areas. In addition, they also present the call towards righteousness to the local devotees of Rasool and teach and learn Islamic knowledge.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه ٭, ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I'tikaf’ is the best source of teaching Islamic brothers Sunnahs and manners and the way of giving Madani Dars, etc.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I'tikaf’, Masajid are filled with Salah-offering Muslims.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’, every moment that is spent in a Masjid is considered to be in worship.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’ one will attain the excellence of loving the Masjid and spending more and more time in it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, how excellent it is to spend more and more time in a Masjid!

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see a person that he goes to a Masjid frequently, bear witness to his Iman [faith] because Allah Almighty has stated [in Ayah 18 of Surah At-Taubah, part 10]:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those uphold the Mosques of Allah, who believe in Allah and the Last Day and keep Salah established and pay Zakat. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah Almighty also enable us to fill Masajid with Salah-offering people, to offer Salah and to pay Zakah! Good company is very necessary for attaining steadfastness in virtuous deeds, otherwise, sometimes a person after reading or listening to the excellence of virtuous deeds makes his mind: I will not disobey Allah Almighty now; now I will only perform virtuous deeds.

But he has a bad company which becomes an obstacle in the way of having steadfastness in virtuous deeds. Sometimes, the deeds that should be avoided not only destroy a person’s time, but they also deprive him of many virtuous deeds.

Yearning for flying kites!

An Islamic brother living in Bab-ul-Madinah [Karachi] had a yearning for flying kites. His hobbies were playing video games and playing with marbles. He was committing the evils like poking his nose into everyone’s affairs, quarrelling with people, fighting on trivial matters, etc. He started observing I’tikaf in the last ten days of the blessed month of Ramadan in the Masjid of his area. During this I’tikaf, he had many good dreams and felt great satisfaction. Afterwards, he was privileged to perform I’tikaf for two more years. Once the Muazzin of his Masjid took him to the global Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi) to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. The attraction and luminosity of the preacher’s face captivated him and he associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, he has also grown a beard to the length of one fist.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Some people have the habit of becoming lazy and stingy in giving Sadaqah and charity under the pretext of being poor and start making many complaints if they are asked about their condition. This is the dangerous evil which has also been condemned in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 38 of Surah Muhammad, part 26, it is stated:

هٰۤاَنْتُمْ هٰۤؤُلَآءِ تُدْعَوْنَ لِتُنْفِقُوْا فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِۚ-فَمِنْكُمْ مَّنْ یَّبْخَلُۚ-وَ مَنْ یَّبْخَلْ فَاِنَّمَا یَبْخَلُ عَنْ نَّفْسِهٖؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ الْغَنِیُّ وَ اَنْتُمُ الْفُقَرَآءُۚ-وَ اِنْ تَتَوَلَّوْا یَسْتَبْدِلْ قَوْمًا غَیْرَكُمْۙ-ثُمَّ لَا یَكُوْنُوْۤا اَمْثَالَكُمْ۠(۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Yes, certainly! It is you who are being called, that you may spend in Allah’s path. So someone amongst you acts miserly, and whoever is miserly, he is being a miser upon himself. And Allah is Independent (from your wealth), and you are all needy. And if you turn your face away (from His obedience), so He will replace you with other people, and they will not be like you (they will be better than you in the obedience of Allah).

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Stinginess means to prevent. In terminology, stinginess means to prevent wealth from [spending at] the place where it is not good [to be prevented]; it is also stinginess to not fulfil the rights [whether a person does not fulfil the right of people or Shari’at or the Right of Allah Almighty], therefore the one who does not pay Zakat, does not spend money on his needy parents, wife and children, relatives and on himself is a miser. Similarly, if a person does not spend on Muslims when needed, he is also a miser. (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 4, pp. 377)

Dear Islamic brothers! Zakat, Sadaqah and charity are financial forms of worship. Allah Almighty enables the people to perform this worship who have the passion to fulfil the needs of the poor and the needy. The people, who do not pay their Zakat, etc., remain busy satisfying their needs and increasing their bank balance. Perhaps they feel that the way they are satisfied, in the same way, the others will be too. Stinginess is a very dangerous disease. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it and learn a lesson:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Stinginess is a tree in Hell. The one who is stingy has held its twig ; the twig will not leave him until it makes him enter Hell. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 435, Hadees 10877)

2 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The rich will enter Hell without any accountability due to becoming stingy. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 444, Hadees 3309)

3 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Every such day when bondmen get up in the morning, two angels descend on him, one of the angels says: O Allah Almighty! Give reward to the one who spends [in

Your way] and the second one says: O Allah Almighty! Destroy the wealth of a miser. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-uz-Zakah, vol. 1, pp. 485, Hadees 1442)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard! A miser is so unfortunate that he makes himself deserving of Hell by becoming stingy. He loses his wealth due to the Du’a for destruction made by innocent angels. Therefore, it is better that one should fulfil the rights of wealth and form the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity generously. Remember! If we do not fulfil the rights of wealth, so the same wealth which we have saved with great love can bring downright disgrace on us tomorrow.

Introduction to departments of Dawat-e-Islami

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, currently, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is serving Sunnah approximately in 200 countries of the world and in approximately 107 departments. These Majalis include Khuddam-ul-Masajid, which constructs Masajid, Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Hifz and Naazirah of Madani children (boys and girls), Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for adults] for the Quranic education of elder Islamic brothers, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ for seeking Shar’i guidance, ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah’ for the preparation of Islamic scholars, ‘Mufti Course’ for the training of Ifta, ‘Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ for propagating the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and for providing reformatory books, ‘Majlis Maktubat and Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah’ for spiritual treatment, ‘Madani Channel’ for conveying the call towards righteousness through electronic media to every corner of the world, weekly Ijtima’aat and other Madani activities for Islamic sisters, Madani In’amaat, which are in the form of questions, for developing the passion in Muslims to become pious practising Muslims, Madani Qafilahs, which travel in many countries of the world, for making efforts to reform the people of the entire world and weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs which are also arranged.

Majalis have also been established for the reformation of the students who study at schools, colleges and universities and for mute, deaf and blind

Islamic brothers. Central Majlis-e-Shura has also been established in order to monitor the performance of all these departments and to run the whole Madani system in the entire world in an excellent way. Therefore participate actively in virtuous activities by giving your Sadaqah, charity and other Nafl donations to Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and collect virtues for your Hereafter.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, through the website of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, www.dawateislami.net you can also deposit your Wajib and Nafl Sadaqat with the help of online facility.

Dar-ul-Madinah School System

Remember! The way Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy imparting Islamic knowledge through Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madaris-ul-Madinah, Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Qafilahs, Madani visits, Madani Tarbiyyati Course, Deeds Reformation Course, Faizan-e-Namaz Course, Madani Channel and Madani Dars, etc., similarly, in order to provide Islamic and worldly education to Madani children (boys and girls) it has also established Dar-ul-Madinah School System in different cities of the country. The Madani children who are studying at them will not only become a respectable Muslim, but they will also become independent after receiving professional education and will achieve a very different status in society. Therefore we should not only associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, but we should also get our children enrolled in Dar-ul-Madinah for their reformative and Madani Tarbiyyat (upbringing). اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه, our children will not only become practising, but they will also have a bright future.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners regarding Miswak

O the devotees of Rasool! Let’s listen to some Sunnahs and manners regarding Miswak from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

Firstly, two sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم are presented below:

٭ Two Rak’aat offered after performing Miswak are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 18)

٭ Make it obligatory for yourself to use Miswak because it is the cause for the cleanliness of mouth and pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 438, Hadees 5869)

٭ Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated that Miswak has ten qualities: It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, improves the eyesight, eliminates phlegm, eliminates bad breath, it is the observance of the Sunnah, angels become happy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased, it increases good deeds and improves the functioning of the stomach. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners regarding Miswak will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 11 April 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 . Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 . Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 . Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners regarding Miswak

٭ Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated, ‘Four things enhance intellect: abstaining from useless conversation, use of Miswak, company of pious people and acting upon your [religious] knowledge.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 27)

٭ On page 288 of the first volume of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has mentioned: The reverent scholars say that the one who uses Miswak regularly, will be blessed with the recitation of Kalimah at the time of his death, and the one who consumes opium will not be blessed with the recitation of Kalimah at the time of his death.

٭ Miswak should be from Peelu, Zaytoon, or Neem tree having bitter taste.

٭ Thickness of Miswak should be equal to that of the little finger.

٭ Miswak should not be longer than one hand span. Otherwise, Satan sits on it.

٭ The strands of the Miswak should be soft. Otherwise they cause space between teeth and gums.

٭ If Miswak is fresh, then it is excellent. Otherwise soak it in a glass of water to make it soft.

٭ Brush your teeth horizontally with Miswak.

٭ Whenever you use Miswak, use it three times.

٭ And rinse it after each time.

٭ Hold Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains at the bottom, the middle three fingers remain on top of it while the thumb remains at the top (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

٭ First brush (with Miswak) the upper teeth of the right side and then the left. Thereafter, clean the lower teeth starting from the right side and then the left.

٭ Using Miswak holding in fist poses risk of piles.

٭ Miswak is a Sunnah to be performed before Wudu, but if one has foul smell in the mouth, then using Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah. (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

٭ Do not throw away a used Miswak as it is an instrument used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into sea after tying it to stone or something heavy etc.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a to be recited when struck by a calamity

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a when struck by a calamity ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیْهِ رٰجِعُوْنَؕ(۱۵۶) اَللّٰھُمَّ اَجِرْ نِیْ فِیْ مُصِیْبَتِیْ وَاَخْلِفْ لِیْ خَیْرًا مِّنْھَا

Translation: Without doubt we belong to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and without doubt we are about to return to Him. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reward me in this misfortune, and grant me better than this. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 457, Hadees 918)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 . I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 . I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 . I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 . I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 . I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 . I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 . I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2 . Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 . Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 . Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 . Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6 . Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 . Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 . Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 . Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 . Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 . Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 . Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 . Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 . Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 . Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

1 6 . Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 . Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 . Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 . Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 . Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 . Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 . Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 . Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 . Obeyed your Nigran?

25 . Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 . In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 . Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 . Controlled your anger?

29 . Refrained from useless questions?

30 . Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 . Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 . Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 . Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 . Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 . Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 . Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 . Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 . Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 . Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 . Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 . Paid back the loan on time?

42 . Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 . Kept unified relations?

44 . Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 . Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 . While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 . Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 . Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 . Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 . Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 . Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 . Inquired after an ill person?

4 . Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 . Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 . Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 . Sent a letter?

8 . Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

