اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Eminence of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ يَا اَيُّهَا النَّاسُ اِنَّ اَنْجَاكُمْ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ مِنْ اَهْوَالِهَا وَ مَوَاطِنِهَا اَكْثَرُكُمْ عَلَىَّ صَلَاةً فِىْ دَارِ الدُّنْيَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, from the terror and accountability of the Day of Judgement, the person who would attain the quick salvation will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me in abundance in the world. (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has

said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

… ٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

… ٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

-3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed companions’ passion for sacrifice

The publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, that comprises of 2 volumes contains various admonitory parables. Parable number 17 on page no. 73 of its first volume is as follows:

Sayyiduna Abu Jahm Bin Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: (On one particular day numerous companions (Sahabah) رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were attacked and terribly wounded by non-believers. Amongst the wounded) I was looking for my [paternal] cousin. I had water in a bowl that was enough to quench the thirst of one person. I thought that if he has some remaining breaths left, then I will give this water to him and would clean his face with this water. When I reached near him, I saw that he was drenched in blood. I asked him: ‘Shall I give you water?’ Through a gesture, he said, ‘Yes’. In the meanwhile, someone’s groaning voice was heard. My [paternal] cousin said, ‘Take this water to him.’ I saw that he was the brother of Sayyiduna ‘Amr Bin ‘Aas, Sayyiduna Hishaam Bin ‘Aas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . I reached him and said, ‘Here, let me give you water.’ In the meanwhile, he too heard an injured person groaning.

Through gesture, he said, ‘Take this water to him.’ When I reached him, he had passed away. Then I came back to Sayyiduna Hishaam Bin ‘Aas, but he too had passed away. Then I came back to my [paternal] cousin and saw that he had passed away too. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 73)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What great eminence and dignity the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم possessed. Despite having their bodies covered with wounds and severity of thirst being at its peak, may we be sacrificed upon the passion of sacrifice of these blessed individuals that even in these testing times, they cared about the groaning of other companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم so much that they prioritised them over their own thirst. Just ponder that when one faces such calamitous situation when even intellect stops working and every person just thinks about himself, even then these individuals are worrying for others rather than saving their own lives thinking that if I drink the water, then my Muslim brother will remain thirsty. Undoubtedly, this was the result of their excellent education and upbringing, highly exalted courage and accomplished devotion towards Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Due to these very illustrious traits of theirs, talking about these shining stars of guidance even after centuries provide tranquillity and solace to the hearts of Muslims. Moreover, their dignity and eminence has prevailed all around. Let’s now hear that who is a ‘Sahabi’ [companion].

Definition of Sahabi [companion]

‘Allamah Haafiz Ibn-e-Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Those fortunate individuals who saw the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the state of Iman and also passed away in the state of Iman are called ‘Sahabi’ [companion].

(Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 8, pp. 3 - 4)

The number of these companions is more than 1,00,000. It is narrated that approximately 1,14,000 companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered in Makkah Mukarramah on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’ with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for Hajj. From some other narrations, we find out that the number of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’ was approximately 1,24,000.

(Zurqaani, vol. 3, pp. 106; Madarij, vol. 2, pp. 387; Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 51)

Names of all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are not known. Number of those companions whose names are known are 7,000.

(Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 400)

(Among all the companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), Khulafa-e-Arba’ah (i.e. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani and

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are the most superior; then are the ‘Asharah Mubashsharah (those ten companions of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who were given the glad tidings of Paradise in this world are called ‘Asharah Mubashsharah); after them are Hasanayn Karimayn (i.e. Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا); and then the most superior are those companions who participated in the battle of Badr and Bay’at-ur-Ridwan. Moreover, all of them (i.e. all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are destined for Heaven. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, pp. 249)

The Holy Quran mentions the righteous actions, good character and firm Iman of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم at various places. Moreover, they were given the glad tidings of forgiveness and rewards of the Hereafter in this very world. Just ponder! Who can even think of the dignity and elevated ranks of those whose good attributes have been praised by Allah Almighty? Let’s listen to some Ayahs of the Holy Quran in relation to those sacred personalities so that their sacredness and eminence grows further in our hearts. Hence, it is stated in part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 4:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٌ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ وَ مَغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only these are true Muslims; for them are ranks with their Lord, and is forgiveness and honourable sustenance.

(Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 4)

Allah Almighty says in part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 100:

رَّضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُ وَ اَعَدَّ لَهُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ تَحْتَهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ-ذٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِیْمُ(۱۰۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him, and He has kept ready for them Gardens beneath which rivers flow; to abide in it forever and ever; only this is the great success.

(Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 100)

It is stated in part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 218:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ یَرْجُوْنَ رَحْمَتَ اللّٰهِؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ غَفُوْرٌ رَّحِیْمٌ(۲۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: They are hopeful of Allah’s mercy. And Allah is Most Forgiving, Ever Merciful. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 218)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It becomes absolutely clear from the aforementioned sacred Ayahs that all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم possess extreme reverence and dignity, as they were those who had devoted their lives to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and for the uplifting of Islam. These courageous individuals stood shoulder to shoulder with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and presented such sacrifices in order to revive the religion that cannot be neglected. Due to the blessings of being subservient to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah Almighty did not only bless them with the great rewards such as His pleasure, forgiveness and Paradise etc., but also mentioned the bestowments and blessings attained by them in His Book (Holy Quran) at various places so that their dignity and reverence engraves firmly in the hearts of Muslims who are yet to come until the Day of Judgement. Other than the Ayahs of the Holy Quran, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also at times mentioned the excellence of all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in general, and at times, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم highlighted their dignity and status by taking their names separately.

Righteous personalities

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَكْرِمُوا اَصْحَابِي فَاِنَّهُمْ خِيَارُكُمْ ’ i.e. revere my companions as they are the most pious people among you all.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 413, Hadees 6012)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated: ‘ خَيْرُ اُمَّتِي اَلْقَرْنُ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنِي ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ’ i.e. the best among my Ummah are those who are from my era (i.e. the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), then the ones after them (i.e. Tabi’een) and then the ones after them (i.e. Tab’-e-Tabi’een). (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 2535)

There are some such blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as well due to whose remarkable achievements, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned their glory and dignity by taking their names in such a way like; Abu Bakr is the most soft-hearted and kind person of my Ummah, ‘Umar Bin Khattab is the best and the most just in my Ummah, ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan is the most modest and revered person of my Ummah, ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib is the wisest and bravest person of my Ummah, ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood is the most pious and

trustworthy person of my Ummah, Abu Zar is the most ascetic (who has turned away from this world) and truthful person of this Ummah, Abu Darda is the biggest devout worshipper and most pious person of my Ummah, and Mu’awiyah Bin Sufyan is the most forbearing and generous person of my Ummah (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33666)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated: I am the first one to enter Paradise among the people of ‘Arab, Salman will be the first one to enter Paradise among the people of Persia, Suhayb is the first one to enter Paradise among the Romans, and Bilal is the first one to enter Paradise among the people of Abyssinia (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33672)

All my companions (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are reverend and beloved to me, even if they are dark skinned slave. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 345, Hadees 33674)

Light of guidance

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that how did the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mention the dignity and glory of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ? Moreover, it is the desire of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself that my Ummah revers and dignifies my companions immensely. Therefore, we should also truly love all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and spend our lives by following their Seerah [biography] and character; because they are the bright stars of guidance about whom the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَصْحَابِي كَالنُّجُومِ فَبِاَيِّہِمْ اِقْتَدَيْتُمْ اِهْتَدَيْتُمْ ’ i.e. my companions are like stars. Whoever among them you follow, you will be guided. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6018)

In the commentary of this Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a beautiful comparison. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as the stars of guidance, and in another Hadees, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his household (Ahl-e-Bayt) as the ark of Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . A traveller of sea is in need of a boat as well as the guidance of stars, as ship sails in sea only upon the guidance of stars. In the same way, the Muslim Ummah is in need of the Ahl-e-Bayt Athaar as well as the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for their spiritual life. Guidance for Ummah lies in following the blessed companions. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 179)

Ahl-e-Sunnat ka hay bayra paar, Ashaab-e-Huzoor

Najm hayn aur naao hay ‘itrat Rasoolullah ki

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish)

Ahl-e-Sunnat will sail safely to the shore as, the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are the stars (of guidance) and Holy Rasool’s household is their ark.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Madani Halqah after Fajr”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to engrave the true love of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in your heart and to understand their glory and dignity, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and spread the call towards righteousness. Moreover, practically take part in the 12 Madani activities. Out of the 12 Madani activities, one Madani activity is “Madani Halqah after Fajr”. In this Madani activity, 3 Ayahs of the Holy Quran with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan / Noor-ul-‘Irfan / Siraat-ul-Jinaan, Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat (4 pages) and Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah is read out.

Due to the blessings of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, the Masjid remains enlivened, you get a chance to listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran, and you get Madani pearls of knowledge of Deen on different topics. In relation to reciting, teaching, understanding and making others understand the Holy Quran, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘ خَیْـرُکُمْ مَنْ تَعَلَّمَ الْـقُراٰنَ وَعَلَّمَهُ ’ i.e. the best among you is the one who learns the Holy Quran and teaches it to others. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 5027)

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable regarding the Madani Halqah after Fajr.

Madani parable

One Islamic brother from the Malir Halt Area of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) joined the congregational I’tikaf on 29 th Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 1428 Hijri held in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah, Karachi. The Mu’takif Islamic brothers were gaining blessings after the Fajr Salah by beholding Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

According to the Jadwal (schedule) of I’tikaf, Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Attariyyah was recited. In the meanwhile that Islamic brother came and sat in the first row. All Islamic brothers were reading out the

couplets based on supplications of the Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah. When the name of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم read, that Islamic brother kissed his thumbs and placed them on his eyes. All of a sudden, he was overtaken by drowsiness. As he fell asleep, his heart woke up. He saw that all the Islamic brothers reciting the blessed Shajarah are in front of the golden grills (at the Raudah-e-Mubarak) with Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is quenching the thirst of his devotees by giving them the privilege to behold him. The attendees were reciting the couplets of supplications of the blessed Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah and our Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was saying Aameen by raising his blessed hands upon those couplets of supplications.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The matchless character and pleasant manners of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم hold a lot of importance for the reformation and edification of the Ummah. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مِثْلُ اَصْحَابِيْ فِيْ اُمَّتِيْ كَالْمِلْحِ فِي الطَّعَامِ لَا يَصْلَحُ الطَّعَامُ اِلَّا بِالْمِلْحِ ’ i.e., the example of my companions in my Ummah is like that of salt in food; as food remains incomplete without salt. (Sharh-us-Sunnah, vol. 7, pp. 76, Hadees 3863)

As salt is less in quantity but completes the food, similarly, my companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are less in number in my Ummah, but everyone will be reformed through them. The first carriage of the train that is attached to the engine benefits the whole train. That carriage gets pulled by the engine, and then it pulls all the other carriages. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 178)

The excellence and dignity of the blessed companions

While mentioning the dignity and excellence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم on one occasion, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: The one who wants to tread on the right path should follow those and tread on their path who have passed away from this world. Those who still have not faced death, there is still a risk for them that they may indulge in a Fitnah (evil) in relation to the Deen, and these people (who should be followed) are the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They are the most superior among the entire Ummah. They are the most kind hearted in the entire Ummah, they possess the most in-depth knowledge, and their actions do not contain show-off. They are those who

were chosen by Allah Almighty for the company of His Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and serving of the Deen. Hence, realise their excellence and dignity. Follow their ways and footsteps. Adopt their character and Seerah as much as possible as undoubtedly, these individuals were firm on the right path.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 57, Hadees 193)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that how beautifully Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ conveyed the Madani pearls in relation to the dignity and importance of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ? No doubt, every companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who was given Tarbiyyah (edification) by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is an embodiment and source of guidance. It is for the reason because in the entire Ummah, it was only the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who received the privilege of attaining the proximity and company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . And due to this reason, they attained such excellence and dignity that cannot be attained by anyone else who is not a Sahabi. Therefore, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘If any one of you donate gold to the amount of a mountain cannot even be equal to the 1.25 kg barley, or even half of that, donated by my companion.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 522, Hadees 3673)

Commenting on this blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: i.e. If my companion donates 1.25 kg of barley, and any other Muslim other than them (Sahabah), whether he is a Ghaus or Qutb or an ordinary Muslim, donates gold to the amount of a mountain, then his donated gold cannot reach the ranks of proximity and acceptance in the court of Allah Almighty which was reached by the 1.25 kg donation of a companion. Same is the case with Sawm, Salah and all other acts of worship. When the Salah offered in Masjid-e-Nabawi carries 50,000 times more reward than the Salahs offered at any other place, then what can be said about those who attained the blessed proximity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and beheld him, and what can be said about the acts of worship they carried out. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 174)

Majlis Rabitah bil-‘Ulama wal-Mashaaikh

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain the blessings of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and to enlighten your hearts with their love, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and engage in serving the Sunnahs.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is striving to convey the call towards righteousness across the globe in approximately 104 departments. One of them is also “Majlis Rabitah bil-‘Ulama wal-Mashaaikh”. The basic purpose of this department is to make the honourable Sunni ‘Ulama and great Mashaaikh i.e. Aimmah-e-Masajid (Imams), Khutaba (sermonizers) and Peeran-e-Tareeqat (spiritual leaders) etc., aware of the religious services of Dawat-e-Islami, get their help in the Madani activities, gain their Du’as, and carry out Madani activities in the Sunni Jami’aat and Madaris. Moreover, its purpose is also to make the students of Sunni Jami’aat and Madaris attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, weekly Madani Muzakarah and different Tarbiyyati (learning) Ijtima’aat, and to make proper arrangements (meals etc.) for them.

May Allah Almighty give further progression to the department “Majlis Rabitah bil-‘Ulama wal-Mashaaikh” and give us true and firm association with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way a major act of righteousness of any [ordinary] Muslim cannot equate to the smallest act of righteousness of a Sahabi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, similarly, no matter how big Wali, Ghaus or Qutb one becomes and numerous saintly-miracles are manifested through him, still he cannot reach to the level of any Sahabi.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah Mufti ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: All the [Islamic] scholars and great thinkers of Ummah have consensus upon the fact that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are “the highest ranked Awliya”; i.e. even if all the Awliya until the Day of Judgement attain the highest ranks in Wilayah [sainthood], still they cannot reach the excellences of Wilayah [sainthood] of any Sahabi at all. Allah Almighty blessed the ardent devotees of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with such exalted rank of Wilayah and such great saintly miracles that are not even possible to think for any other Wali. There is no doubt in the fact that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم did not manifest as many saintly miracles as have been narrated for other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . However, it shall be clear that the abundance of saintly miracles is not a proof to be superior in Wilayah [sainthood]; because Wilayah actually means to have closeness to Allah Almighty. One who has more proximity in the court of Allah Almighty will

have a higher rank in sainthood. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are those who benefited from the luminosity and blessings of the Prophethood, that’s why the closeness that they have in the court of Allah Almighty cannot be attained by other Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Although very few saintly miracles have been manifested by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, but still their rank of sainthood is a lot more superior and exalted as compared to the other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 53)

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that the dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is such incomparable that no one can reach their status and rank at all. It was these sacred personalities who gave physical and financial sacrifices for the uplifting of Islam. They left their homes for the propagation of Islam and never let go of patience while facing the hardships during their travel. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are Muslims, the commandments of Allah Almighty that we have in the shape of Glorious Quran and collections of the blessed Ahadees in the shape of the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are also the result of their untiring efforts of days and nights. Therefore, we shall enlighten our hearts with their love and reverence, who have done favours upon us, spend our lives while following their footsteps, refrain from even slightest of their disrespect and insolence, and should always talk good of them. The [Islamic] scholars state: ‘When (ever) they (blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are spoken of, it is Fard (obligatory) to speak only good of them.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 252)

Remember! To attain the pleasure of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is not enough to claim for his love only; rather, it is also obligatory to respect and revere all the blessed companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Otherwise, speaking ill of them can become a means of the displeasure of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

‘Allamah Yusuf Bin Isma’eel Nabhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions a parable of Abu ‘Ali Qathaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that, I saw a dream that I entered the Jaami’ Masjid Sharqiyah of Karkh. I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . There were two other men as well along with him whom I did not know who they were. I presented Salam in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not give any reply. I humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I send such and such number of Salat and Salam upon you during the day and night, and you deprived me from the reply of Salam?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘You do send Salat upon me but

reproach my companions.’ I humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I repent on your blessed hands. I will not do so in future.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said (in the reply of Salam): ‘ وَعَلَیْکَ السَّلَامُ وَرَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَبَرَکَاتُہٗ ’.

(Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 163)

Shining stars of the path of guidance

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know from the aforementioned parable that along with loving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and reciting Salat in abundance upon him, we should also love all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool. مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, may it not be the case that we express immense love and devotion for some of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and have animosity in our hearts for the rest of the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If one does so, then he will be subject to the curse of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Deserving of the curse of Allah Almighty

Sayyiduna ‘Uwaym Bin Saa’idah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty has chosen me, and preferred my companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for me. Then He عَزَّوَجَلَّ made my ministers, helpers and relatives among them. ‘ فَمَنْ سَبَّہُمْ فَعَلَیْہِ لَعْنَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَالْمَلَائِکَۃِ وَالنَّاسِ اَجْمَعِیْنَ ’ so whoever swears at them, there is the curse of Allah Almighty, His angels and all the people upon him. ‘ لَا یَقْبَلُ اللّٰہُ مِنْہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَرْفًا وَّلَا عَدْلًا ’ on the Day of Judgement, Allah Almighty will neither accept any of his Fard, nor any of his Nafl. (As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 4)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said: Fear Allah Almighty in relation to my companions. Do not make them a target (of your slanders and evil statements) after me. Therefore, whosoever loved them did so due to loving me and whosoever kept a grudge against them in fact did so due to having grudge against me. Whoever hurt them hurt me, and whoever hurt me displeased Allah Almighty. And whoever displeases Allah Almighty, soon Allah Almighty will hold him to account. (Mishkat, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6014)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: ‘ وَمَنْ اَسَاءَ الْقَوْلَ فِیْ اَصْحَابِیْ کَانَ مُخَالِفًا لِسُنَّتِیْ ’ whoever uttered an evil statement against my companions (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) has deviated away from my path ‘ وَمَأْ وَاہُ النَّارُ وَبِئْسَ الْمَصِیْرُ ’ and his destination is Hell, and what a horrendous place it is to return to. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that according to the blessed Hadees, those who have grudge against the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are deserving of the curse of Allah Almighty, angels and all the people. Those who disrespect the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم face the displeasure of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and destroy their Hereafter. Moreover, they are not even blessed with reciting the blessed Kalimah at the time of their death.

Therefore, we should adopt the company of the devotees of Rasool, Sahabah, Ahl-e-Bayt and Awliya. Ignite the flame of love of these sacred personalities in your heart and become deserving of the blessings of both worlds. Having love of the chosen people of Allah Almighty is extremely beneficial in the grave and Hereafter.

Wasilah [sake] of Sahabah saved in the grave

Commentator of the Holy Quran, Sayyiduna Abul Qaasim Bin Hibatullah Bin Salaamah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One student of our beloved teacher passed away. Seeing him in the dream, our beloved teacher asked him: ‘How did Allah Almighty deal with you?’ He replied: ‘I have been forgiven.’ The beloved teacher inquired: ‘How was the session with Nakirayn?’ He replied: ‘Dear teacher! When Nakirayn sat me down and asked me that who is your Lord and who is your Nabi? Then Allah Almighty, through Ilhaam (instilled in my heart and) made me say to them that: ‘Leave me for the Wasilah (sake) of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr and Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا .’ Hence, one angel said to the other: ‘He has given us a very big oath. Therefore, leave him.’ Therefore, they both left me and went away.

(Al-Muntazam li Ibn Jawzi, vol. 15, pp. 138, Raqm 3092; Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 256)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who love the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are the beloveds of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In fact, those fortunate people will also attain the especial proximity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement.

The fortunate to attain the proximity of Holy Nabi

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who has devotion towards my Sahabah, blessed wives and Ahl-e-Bayt (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), does not reproach anyone of them and

passes away in the state of having devotion to them will be with me on the same level on the Day of Judgement. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

Those who love the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have glad tidings of salvation from hypocrisy.

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ اَحْسَنَ الْقَوْلَ فِیْ اَصْحَابِیْ فَقَدْ بَرِئَ مِنَ النِّفَاقِ ’ i.e. the one who spoke good of my companions has become free from hypocrisy. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring

Dear Islamic brothers! Bringing the Bayan towards the end, let’s listen to some Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

… ٭ It is Haraam for a man to wear a gold ring. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade wearing a gold ring. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 67, Hadees 6385)

… ٭ It is Haraam to make a Na-Baaligh [prepubescent] boy wear gold or silver jewellery. One who makes him wear it, will become a sinner. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 468; Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 598)

… ٭ Iron ring is the jewellery of the Hell dwellers.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 305, Hadees 1792)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn these Sunnahs and manners.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 04 October 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of wearing ring

… ٭ Only such ring is permissible for a man that looks like the ring of men, i.e. it contains only one gem. If it contains (more than one or many gems, then it will be impermissible for men even if it is of silver. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 597)

… ٭ It is impermissible to wear ring without a gem as it will not be deemed as a ring, but a Challa [plain ring without a stone]. If any Islamic brother is wearing a metallic bracelet, Challa, impermissible ring or chain, then take it off straightaway and repent, and vow not to wear it again.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for the protection of household, wealth and offspring

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a ‘ for the protection of household, wealth and offspring ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ عَلٰی دِیْنِیْ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ عَلٰی نَفْسِیْ وَ وُلْدِیْ وَ اَھْلِیْ وَ مَالِیْ

Translation: May my religion, life, offspring, household and wealth remain protected due to the blessings of the name of Allah Almighty.

(Al-Wazifa-tul-Karimah, pp. 17)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

… ٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

… ٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

… ٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

… ٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

-1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

-2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

-3 Inquired after an ill person?

-4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

-5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

-1 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

-2 Sent a letter?

-3 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

