اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Faizan-e-Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

حَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَكُمْ تَبْلُغُنِیْ

i.e. Recite Salat upon me wherever you are, as your Salat reaches me. (Al-Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Raqm 2729)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! The blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن are those sacred personalities whose dignity, grandeur, rank and status are extremely sublime and exalted. Being drowned in the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they spent their entire life in propagating and spreading the blessed Ahadees. Among those noble personalities, the rank and status that Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attained was incomparable. The reason because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in the blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram and his ‘Urs also falls in the same month, hence today, we will be privileged to cover the brief introduction of the famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and listen to the different aspects of his noble Seerah. Let’s firstly listen to a

faith-refreshing parable consisting of the passion Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed for worship and try to ignite the passion of performing worship in ourselves too.

Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passion for worship

Once, the famous Muhaddis Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was invited by some of his students. Upon this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to them. When the time of Zuhr approached, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered Salah and then engaged in offering Nawafil. When he finished, he lifted one of the edges of his kameez [long shirt] and said to someone: ‘Look what’s inside my kameez?’ When he saw, there was a poisonous insect that had stung him at sixteen or seventeen different places. Due to it, his blessed body had swollen. People said: ‘When it stung you for the first time, why did you not leave Salah right then?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘I had started (reciting) one surah. I wished for it to be completed (and then I would perform Salaam). (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 2, pp. 13)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the definition of Muhaddis.

Definition of Muhaddis

The one who remains engaged and occupied in the Ahadees of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is called a Muhaddis. (Nuzha-tul-Nazr, pp. 41)

Birth and lineage

O devotees of Awliya! The famous Muhaddis Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in the famous city of Bukhara on 13 th Shawwal 194 A.H., on Friday after ‘Asr Salah. His name is Muhammad and Kunyah is Abu Abdullah. His lineage is as follows: ‘Muhammad Bin Isma`eel Bin Ibraheem Bin Mugheerah’. The great grandfather of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a farmer and worshipped other than Allah. However, he embraced Islam later on at the hand of the ruler of Bukhara, “Yamaan Ju’fi” . Sayyiduna Imam

Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had an age of around 62 years and passed away on 1 st Shawwal 256 AH Saturday in the night of Eid-ul-Fitr in the state of an illness. His blessed shrine is situated in “Khartank”, a town situated at a little distance from Samarqand (Uzbekistan). (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 1, pp. 13-9) (Irshad-As-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 55-56)

Titles

His famous titles are Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen fil-Hadees, Hafiz-ul-Hadees, Muhaddis, Mufti, ‘Hib-rul-Islam, etc.

Number of his teachers

The number of teachers of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is one thousand and eighty (1,080). (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 119)

Number of his students

A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When (Sayyiduna) Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away, he left behind 90,000 Muhaddis students [those who had the knowledge of Hadees]. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hazrat, pp. 238)

Brief introduction of his blessed father

The blessed father of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great Islamic scholar. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to stay in the company of Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه teacher, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a narrator and the one who possessed the knowledge of Hadees. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated from Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mubarak, Sayyiduna Imam Malik رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہما, their students and those who possessed the knowledge of Hadees in that era.

His Du’as were immensely accepted. To the extent that he would humbly present his plea in the Divine court of Allah Almighty saying that do not accept all my Du’as in this world, leave some for the Hereafter.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so firm on consuming ‘Halal that let alone something ‘Haraam, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would even abstain from suspicious things. To the

extent that at the time of his apparent demise, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Whatever wealth I possess, not even a single dirham of it is suspicious.’ Ref (Irshad Al Saari, Tarjama tul Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 55)

Eyesight of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was restored

Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was still very young when his blessed father رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. Thereafter, his blessed mother رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہا took over all the responsibilities of bringing him up. In the childhood, Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lost his eyesight. Due to this agony, his blessed mother رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہا would weep and supplicate imploringly.

One night, her fortune shone when she fell asleep and in her dream, she saw that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has come and is saying: “you kept supplicating for the eyesight of your son to be restored. Congratulations! As your Du’a has been accepted. Allah Almighty has restored the eyesight of your son.” In the morning, she saw that the eyesight of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had been restored. (Tafheem-ul-Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 4; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Did you see that what power has Allah Almighty kept in the Du’a of a mother? As when a mother supplicates for her child, then Allah Almighty honours the raised hands of the mother and accepts her Du’a that she asks in the favour of her child. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ mother is that compassionate individual who supplicates imploringly for her children. Du’a of a mother leads one to Paradise. Du’a of a mother makes one obedient to Allah Almighty. Du’a of a mother protects one from evils. Du’a of a mother elevates a person to the rank of Wilayah [sainthood]. Du’a of a mother makes a person lucky. Du’a of a mother is accepted for her children. Du’a of a mother makes one achieve success. Du’a of a mother is a means for mercy to descend. Du’a of a mother is a means for the forgiveness of sins. By the virtue of a mother’s supplication, Allah Almighty removes calamities and trials from the children. May Allah Almighty enable us to attain the privilege of serving our mother, obeying her, keeping her happy and acting upon such actions that would make her supplicate for us.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! If we analyse the blessed Seerah of blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن, then we will find one shining Madani pearl from their noble Seerah that they sacrificed everything to acquire the knowledge of Hadees and to spread its blessings all around. To the extent that they left their homes and travelled in faraway cities and countries in order to acquire the knowledge of Hadees.

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a true reflection of the righteous predecessors اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, hence, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه followed the footsteps of the blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن and left his homeland for the fulfilment of the same very purpose. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled in faraway cities and used his skills duly in the field of Hadees at a very young age. Let’s see some glimpses of the passion Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed for acquiring knowledge.

Days of (acquiring) education

When Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Isma’eel Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه turned 10, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had already acquired the basic and fundamental knowledge. When Allah Almighty created the passion of acquiring the knowledge of Hadees in his heart, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took admission in (a Madrasah in) “Bukhara” (in order to acquire the knowledge of Hadees). He worked really hard towards acquiring the knowledge of Hadees.

At the age of 16, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled to Makkah and Madina to perform Hajj with his elder brother and mother. After the Hajj, his brother and mother came back to their homeland but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed behind in order to acquire further knowledge. Moreover, at the age of eighteen (18), he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه authored one book [1] over there. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 56) (Tazkirah-tul- Muhaddiseen, pp. 172)

Travel in order to acquire knowledge

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed in Hijaz-e-Muqaddas (i.e. that part of ‘Arab Shareef that consists of Makkah-e-Mukarramah, Madina-e-Munawwarah and Taif) for six years and acquired immense knowledge of Deen. In order to acquire the knowledge of Deen, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embarked upon many journeys. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled twice to Syria, Egypt and Jazeera, four times to Basra and many times to Kufa and Baghdad (cities in Iraq). (Siyar A’laam-un-Nubala, vol. 10, pp. 285)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessings that Allah Almighty blesses His bondmen with, “the ability of memorising” is also one of them. Through this blessing, a person is enabled to save the information of the entire world in the memory of his mind easily and takes full benefit from it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also among those fortunate individuals who were blessed by Allah Almighty with the blessing of (good) memory. Through this tremendous blessing that he attained from the court of Allah Almighty and his unmatchable intellect, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had memorised thousands of Ahadees by heart. Let’s listen to some heartening glimpses of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ability of memorising things.

Mentioned one thousand Ahadees by heart

Once, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to (the famous city of Khurasan) Balkh. People requested him to relay some Ahadees to them. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه relayed to them one thousand Ahadees by heart. (Siyar A’laam-un-Nubala, vol. 10, pp. 289)

15,000 Ahadees in 16 days

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Abi Haatim and Sayyiduna Hashid Bin Isma’eel رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہِما state:

In the young age, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to visit the blessed scholars of Basra with us to learn Hadees. Apart from Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, all of us used to write the Hadees down in order to secure it. After sixteen days, we had a go at Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying that you have wasted the hard work of so many days by not recording down the Ahadees. Listening to it, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to us: ‘Well, bring your pages (where you have written down the Ahadees).’ Therefore, we brought our pages. Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started mentioning the Ahadees. To the extent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned more than fifteen thousand (15,000) Ahadees. Listening to them made us think as if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the one who made us write down (all) those narrations. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 59)

Hafiz of seventy thousand Ahadees

Once, Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: ‘Had you come a little while ago, then I would have made you meet the child who remembers seventy thousand (70,000) Ahadees by heart.’ Listening to this astonishing fact, an urge to meet Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rose in the heart of Sayyiduna Suleiman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Therefore, after leaving from Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started looking for Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه met Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, then Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Are you the one who has memorised seventy thousand (70,000) Ahadees?’ Listening to it, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Yes. I in fact know more Ahadees than this. Moreover, the blessed Sahabah عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ and Tabi’een from whom I narrate the Hadees, I also know the date of birth, place of living and date of demise of most of them. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 59)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You have just heard that Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memory was exceptional! Not only did he memorize more than 70,000 Ahadees by heart in his childhood, but he also memorized most of the narrators of those Ahadees along with their date of birth, their biography and their date of demise. Without a doubt, this was the special grace of Allah Almighty and the distinctive blessings of our Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that people would praise his matchless memory!

On the other hand, today, our memories have become so weak that we cannot even recall simple events that took place yesterday! We have no problem remembering dates of the Gregorian calendar, but unfortunately are unaware of the Madani [Islamic] months and dates. We fall into difficulties with daily dealings and even fall into doubts regarding our Rak’ats of Salah i.e. how many have I offered and how many are left? Even if we read a book or booklet repeatedly, we fail to memorize its topics and rulings.

However, if we wish to improve our memory and make it strong, if we wish to cure ourselves of forgetfulness, if we wish to know about the methods of strengthening memory and get to know about the reasons that cause memory loss, then we can attain the knowledge regarding this by reading Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s published book ‘Hafizah Kaysay Mazboot Ho?’

This book can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

An easy Wazifah for strengthening memory

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْکَامِلِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ کَمَا لَا نِھَایَۃَ لِکَمَالِکَ وَعَدَدَ کَمَالِہٖ

Shaykh e Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ narrates the excellence of this Durood: If a person suffers from amnesia (forgetfulness), then he should recite this Durood abundantly between Maghrib and ‘Isha Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his memory will become strong. (Madani Panj Surah, pp. 169)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Generally, we see that when someone becomes well known amongst common people and dignitaries for any of his achievements, then he starts considering himself to be “something”. He considers of others as lower than himself. He feels shame and disgrace in doing routine tasks himself and feels a pang for the greed of this world, fame and reputation. While following his worldly desires, he becomes heedless regarding the Hereafter!

However, may we be sacrificed for Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! He never allowed even an atom’s worth of arrogance and haughtiness close to him despite having memorized hundreds of thousands of Ahadees! He held firm to humility and humbleness. He practically embraced simplicity. He adopted asceticism and contentment during the years of his education.

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humility and humbleness

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه chosen student Muhammad bin Haatim Warraaq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates: Once, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was building a travellers lodge near Bukhara. Alongside him were also many of his helpers and admirers, but despite this, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was lifting bricks himself and building walls! I stepped forward and said: ‘Please leave this, I will place the bricks!’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘This action will benefit me on the Day of Judgement!’ (Irshad-ul-Saari, vol. 1, pp. 65)

Would eat dry bread!

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even survived on eating dry grass at times during his years of studies.

At times, he would usually eat only two or three almonds throughout the day. On one occasion, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill. The doctors said that his intestines had become dry due to constantly eating dry bread. On hearing this diagnosis, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه informed them that he had been consuming dry bread for forty years and during this time, he had not even touched curry. (Tazkirah-tul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 182)

O devotees of the Islamic saints! You have just heard the tremendous Madani enthusiasm of the chosen servants of Allah Almighty that they would busy themselves in seeking Islamic knowledge with outstanding fervour and passion even while surviving on just dry bread without any curry. In contrast today, our society is seen busy round the clock chasing the degrees (of worldly education) and monetary achievements of this world; while the number of students studying in Islamic universities and Madaris remains at all-time low despite having wonderful facilities free of cost. Whereas, the state is such that most of the people are unaware of the basic Faraaid and Wajibat of Shari’ah.

It is stated in the Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Seeking religious knowledge is not just Fard (obligatory) upon a certain group of people; but seeking religious knowledge according to one’s requirements is Fard upon every Muslim. How regretful is our situation that today, a large number of Muslims are distant from religious knowledge.

If we take a look at Salah offering individuals, we see that they have been offering Salah for 40 years, yet some do not know how to perform Wudhu and some do not know the correct method of Ghusl! Some individuals are not performing the Faraaid (obligatory acts) of Salah in the correct manner while some do not know the Wajibat of Salah! Here someone’s Qira’at is not correct and there someone’s Sajdah is incorrect! Unfortunately, the same predicament is seen in other acts of worship. Especially those who have performed Hajj would know that how many mistakes are made during Hajj.

Majority of them are those who say ‘just travel for Hajj and copy what others are doing’. If this is the case in the acts of worship, then imagine their state in other Fard Uloom (obligatory knowledge)! Similarly, it is compulsory to have knowledge regarding spiritual maladies like jealousy, hatred, malice, arrogance, backbiting, tale-telling, slandering etc. However, the vast majority do not even know the obligation of having knowledge regarding these terms, let alone knowing their definition. These are those things that people generally know to be a sin.

There are other areas such as buying and selling, employment and rules regarding Masajid and Madaris and many other topics where people do not

even know that rulings even exist! It is a strange environment all around. In these dire times, we should not only acquire the religious knowledge ourselves but persuade those too who are under our influence.

If every parent to their children; every teacher to his students; every Peer (spiritual guide) to his disciples, and every person in command to their subordinates persuade them to acquire religious knowledge, then within a short span of time, religious knowledge will spread all around and observance to Shar’iah will become the norm.

You can get a gist of how delicate our situation nowadays is from the fact that once, a large number of jewellers were gathered at one place. When it was enquired from them in detail regarding the way they trade, it was concluded that around 80% of the methods of trading gold and silver now a days were contrary to the rulings of Shari’ah. Regrettably, it is the same case in other trades and fields of employment too. When our situation is critical to such extent, then every individual can realize his responsibility. Therefore, it is necessary upon every person to acquire religious knowledge and teach it to others as much as possible, or should lead them to this path. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 6, pp. 290)

“Madani Halqah after Fajr”, one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that how important and vital it is to acquire Fard knowledge. Therefore, remove laziness, wake up from the sleep of negligence and in order to learn and teach Fard knowledge, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and be fully involved in carrying out the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. “Madani Halqah after Fajr” is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. In this Madani Halqah, after the Fajr Salah, three Ayahs with translation Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, Noor-ul-‘Irfan or Sirat-ul-Jinaan are recited daily in the Masjid. Moreover, Madani Dars (Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat 4 pages) is also delivered. At the end, Shajarah-e-Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, ‘Attariyyah is also recited and listened to. After this, some Awraad-o-Wazaaif (invocations) from the Shajarah are recited and the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht are also offered.

In order to acquire detailed information regarding the daily Madani activity of “Madani Halqah after Fajr”, read Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s published booklet “Ba’d-e-Fajr Madani Halqah”. All Islamic brothers should definitely read this booklet. Along with being available on the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madina, this booklet can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net.

By the virtue of this booklet, you will be able to know:

٭ What is the Madani Halqah after Fajr?

٭ Method of conducting the Madani Halqah

٭ Madani Halqahs of the righteous predecessors

٭ Explanation of the tasks of the Madani Halqah

٭ Useful facts regarding Faizan-e-Sunnat

٭ Blessings of reciting Shajarah

٭ Benefits of Du’a

٭ Blessings of Ishraq and Chasht

٭ Benefits of conducting Madani Halqahs

٭ Few precautions of conducting Madani Halqah, etc.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ: By the virtue of the Madani Halqah, one gets the reward of staying inside the Masjid.

٭ By the virtue of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one gets the privilege of reciting and listening to the Holy Quran.

٭ The Madani Halqah after Fajr is a great means of understanding the Glorious Quran with translation and commentary.

٭ By the virtue of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one acts upon the Madani In’amaat.

٭ By the virtue of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one gets an opportunity to offer the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht.

٭ In the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one attains the privilege of reciting and listening to the blessed Shajarah consisting of the blessed names of the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن . Moreover, talking about the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن is a means of mercy to be descended.

Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Mercy descends at the time of the zikr of the righteous people.’ (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Raqm 10750)

Therefore, you too remain associated with this Madani environment, participate in the “Madani Halqah after Fajr” and gain its blessings.

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable regarding being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool.

Started reciting Kalimah Tayyibah loudly

One preacher of Dawat-e-Islami from Bab-ul-Islam Sindh was extremely modern (in following immoral fashions) before joining the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. Fortunately, he was blessed with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

By the virtue of staying in the company of the Sunnah-practicing devotees of Rasool and the Tarbiyyah of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, he started propagating the call towards righteousness all around. Just a little while after associating himself with the Madani environment, one night in Shawwal-ul-Mukarram, when he completed his Isha Salah, he suddenly felt pain in his chest which kept increasing. He was taken to the doctors. Medicines made no difference. Then all of a sudden, he started reciting the Kalimah Tayyibah repeatedly and loudly. When his son asked him the reason for such sudden recitation of the Kalimah Tayyibah, then he said: ‘Son, look in front. My Peer-o-Murshid, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah

دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is instructing me to recite the blessed Kalimah.’ After saying this, he resumed reciting the Kalimah Tayyibah loudly. Then, he passed away in the same very state, while reciting the Kalimah Tayyibah loudly.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reverence of the blessed Ahadees

O devotees of Rasool! Undoubtedly, once someone devotionally falls in love with someone also falls in love with every such thing that is associated to him. For example, the house of the beloved, his walls and one even develops reverence for the street of the beloved.

So when someone is drowned in the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then why wouldn’t he love and respect the blessed Ahadees of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم due to them being associated with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also among those distinguished personalities who were embodiment of respect and reverence, and were true devotees of the Holy Rasool.

By having the deep and devoted love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه strictly held firm to the elements of reverence and respect and gathered a precious treasure of compilation of the most authentic Ahadees out of hundreds of thousands of Ahadees in the form of “Sahih Bukhari” and presented it to the Ummah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to the greatness and eminence of this sacred book.

Imam Bukhari’s way of writing Hadees

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have mentioned around 6,000 Ahadees in Sahih Bukhari. Before writing every Hadees, I would perform Ghusl, offer 2 Rak’at Nafl Salah and perform Istikharah. When I would be ensured over the authenticity of any Hadees, then I would add it in the book. (Hadi-ul-Saari, vol. 1, pp. 10) (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, pp. 130)

Hafiz of 600,000 Ahadees

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states at another place: I know six hundred thousand Ahadees by heart. It took me sixteen years to choose from them and write this compilation (Bukhari). I have made it a proof (Wasilah) between myself and Allah Almighty. (Muqaddamah, Fath-ul-Baari, pp. 10) I have written only Sahih Ahadees in my book. Those Ahadees that I left thinking the book would grow very long are a lot more in number than these. (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, pp. 130)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also wrote various other books [1] but Sahih Bukhari is such a remarkable achievement of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه which not only acquired acclaim among the common people and special dignitaries, but also acquired immense acclaim in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم too. How was that? The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم associated it towards himself by calling it “my book” .

Acceptance of Sahih Bukhari in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Imam Abu Zaid Marvazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: My fortune shone when I was once asleep in Makkah-e-Mukarramah between Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and ‘Hajar-e-Aswad. I saw a dream that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is saying: ‘O Abu Zaid! Until when will you keep delivering the Dars of Kitab-e-Shafi’i? Why don’t you deliver the Dars of my book?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I humbly requested: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my life be sacrificed upon you! Which is your book?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Jami’ Muhammad Bin Isma’eel, i.e. Imam Bukhari’s book “Bukhari Shareef” . (Bustan-ul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 275)

O devotees of Awliya! Just ponder. What great blessings and virtues would be reaped by those who read, listen to and finish the book that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم likes and associates towards himself. For persuasion, let’s go through some of the virtues of Khatm-e-Bukhari (completion of Bukhari).

Benefits of Khatm-e-Bukhari

(Some) ‘Aarifeen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن narrate: If Sahih Bukhari is read at the time of a difficulty, then that difficulty gets removed. Moreover, the ship containing Sahih Bukhari will not sink.

Hafiz Ibn-e-Kaseer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reading “Sahih Bukhari” during the time of famine makes rain descend down. (Tazkirah-tul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 198)

The famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Azeez Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reading this book at the time of severities, from the fear of enemies, from the severity of illness and other calamities serves as a remedy. This has been experienced many times.

(Bustan-ul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 274; summarised)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that after the Glorious Quran, Sahih Bukhari has been considered to be the most authentic book. Khatm-e-Bukhari is performed at the time of calamities. By the virtue of it and grace of Allah Almighty, the calamities get removed.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 11; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Islah Bara-e-Qaydiyan [prisoners’ reform]

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that how blessed book “Sahih Bukhari” is and what kind of issues get resolved by the virtue of it. So in order to be blessed with the blessings of Imam Bukhari and Sahih Bukhari, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and render your services to Islam. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Dawat-e-Islami, is spreading Sunnahs all over the world in more or less 107 departments of Islamic services. Out of them, one department is “Majlis-e-Islah Bara-e-Qaydiyan” [Department for prisoners’ reform]. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani work is ongoing through this Majlis for the Sunnah-inspired development of the Muslim prisoners in various jails worldwide.

Many Madaris have been established for the teaching of the Holy Quran in various jails of Pakistan. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these Madaris will be established in all the jails. Dars from the booklets of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is delivered everyday in many jails. Monthly and weekly Ijtima-e-Zikr-o-Na’at also take place in different jails. The grieved prisoners are sent the Ta’wizaat of the Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah free of cost. Different courses are organised for the edification of those who are set free. For e.g. 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah course, 63-day Madani Tarbiyyati course, 12-day Madani course, Imamat course, Mudarris course etc.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! Usually, a person is capable of benefiting others as long as he is alive in this world, but as soon as he dies, this process comes to an end. However, the dignity and grandeur of blessed Awliya رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن is so high and elevated that as long as they stay alive in this mortal world, then they bless everyone, pious or sinner, and spread their blessings all around; and when they are laid down to rest in their shrines, even then blessings are revealed through them and their shrines and people keep gaining blessings from them. Let’s listen to a saintly miracle of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه after his demise and a blessing of his shrine.

Du’a accepted by the blessing of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari

‘Allamah Taj-ud-Deen Subki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: (200 years) after the apparent demise of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, people in Samarqand were deprived of even few drops of water due to no rain. People offered Salah of Istisqa many times and supplicated but it did not rain. Then a pious person who was famous for his piety, righteousness and being averted from this world, went to the Qazi of the city and suggested him to take the people of the city and go to the shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty over there for rain. Allah Almighty would perhaps accept your Du’a. The Qazi accepted his suggestion and went to the shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه along with the people.

They supplicated in the court of Allah Almighty by the Wasilah of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and shed tears. They requested Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for their supplication to be accepted. They supplicated with extreme humility of the body and the presence of the heart. Right at that time, clouds covered the sky and it rained constantly for seven days. It rained so much that it became difficult for people to travel from “Khartank” to “Samarqand”. (Tabqat-ush-Shafi’a-tul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 234) (Distance between Khartank and Samarqand is only 3 miles).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! It has been the practice of our righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن and the rightly guided ‘Ulama [scholars] that they would visit the shrines of Awliya-e-Kiraam رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن for the solution of their problems and attained what they desired. To gain blessings, let us listen to two narrations regarding the blessings of visiting the shrines of the righteous predecessors.

1. Sayyiduna Hasan Bin Ibraheem Khallaal Hanbali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Whenever I come across any need, then I present myself on the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Musa Bin Ja’far رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and present his Wasilah (in the court of Allah Almighty). Allah Almighty removes my difficulty and fulfils my need. (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 1, pp. 133)

2. The great leader of Shaafi’is, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says: Whenever I come across any need, then I offer two Rak’at Salah and supplicate to Allah Almighty by going to the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Allah Almighty fulfils my need. (Al Khayrat-ul-Hisaan, pp. 94)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadan! After Ramadan, the blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram will arrive. Fortunate Muslims attain the privilege of keeping 6 Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr in this month and attain its blessings. Let us also listen

to the virtues of these six Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr so that we could also be enabled to keep these Siyam and be blessed with their blessings.

Blessings of the 6 Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who kept the Siyam of Ramadan, then kept 6 Siyam in Shawwal, he gets free from sins as if he was given birth by his mother today. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 5102)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who kept the Siyam of Ramadan and then kept 6 [Siyam] in Shawwal, it is as if he observed Sawm for [his] entire life. (Muslim, pp. 592, Hadees 2758)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who kept 6 Siyam (in Shawwal) after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr kept Siyam for the whole year; as the one who will bring one virtuous deed will get ten (in return). (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 2, pp. 333, Hadees 1715)

Khaleel-e-Millat, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There is no harm even if these Siyam are kept consecutively straight after the ‘Eid. The better approach for one seems for him to keep 2 Siyam per week and keep one Sawm the next day after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr. Furthermore, it sounds even more suitable if one keeps these Siyam over the entire month. (Sunni Bihishti Zaywar, pp. 347; summarised)

In short, 6 Siyam of this month can be kept whenever one wants throughout the month, except for the ‘Eid day. Therefore, all Islamic brothers should make an intention that if still alive, we will attain the blessings of keeping these six Siyam as well as earnestly persuade others to keep these Siyam too. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearl regarding blessed Hadees

Dear Islamic brothers! Bringing the speech towards the end, let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding Hadees. First of all, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who memorises and imparts 40 Ahadees relating to religious affairs to my Ummah, Allah Almighty will raise him with such dignity on the Day of Judgement that he will be a Faqih. I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement and bear witness for him. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 258)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: May Allah Almighty keep him fresh who listens to my Hadees, memorises it and relays it to others. (Tirmizi vol. 4, pp. 298, Hadees 2665)

3. In Islam, after Kalamullah (i.e. the Holy Quran) is the rank of Kalam-e-Rasool Allah (i.e. blessed Ahadees). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 2)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls regarding blessed Hadees will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 30 May 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearl regarding blessed Hadees

٭ It is Fard [obligatory] for every human being to obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this obedience is impossible without knowing Hadees and Sunnah. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 9)

٭ Claiming to have Iman on Quran after denying the Ahadees is merely a false statement. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 36)

٭ Do not state something [as a Hadees] unless it is known that it is really a blessed Hadees. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 451)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Refrain from stating a Hadees attributed to me unless you have certain knowledge. The one who deliberately associated a lie with me should make his abode in the Hell. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 439, Hadees 2960)

٭ Do not forward any Hadees through SMS without reference unless you have it verified from a Sunni Mufti [Islamic jurist] or ‘Aalim [Islamic scholar] who has correct beliefs. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 440)

Du’a of Shab-e-Qadr

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the “Du’a of Shab-e-Qadr” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اَللّٰہُمَّ اِنَّكَ عَفُوٌّ تُحِبُّ الْعَفْوَ فَاعْفُ عَنِّیْ

Translation: O Allah! You are the most forgiving. You like forgiving, please forgive me. (Tirmizi, Kitab-ul-Da’waat 84, vol. 5, pp. 306, Hadees 3524)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

