Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Maula ‘Ali Mushkil Kusha

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me on Friday, I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement.’

(Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In the Bayan of Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima we are going to listen to the virtues and blessings of the great personality who has attained great status and rank for the sake of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That great personality is the fourth caliph, the door of the city of knowledge, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Ali Al-Murtada Shayr-e-Khuda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about his glory and greatness.

Paralytic person recovered

Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was present in the blessed Haram of Ka’bah with both of his sons Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Husain رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . Noticing that a person was making Du’a in tears for his need in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم ordered to bring the person to him. Since one side of his body was paralysed, he dragged his legs while walking and came to him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked what had happened to him. The person humbly replied, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I was extremely fearless in committing sins and my father, who was a righteous and pious Muslim, would repeatedly check me and prevent me from committing sins. One day my anger boiled up while he was advising me and I beat him. Due to being beaten by me, he grew sad and came to the Haram-e-Ka’bah and made Du’a against me. All of a sudden I was under his curse and one side of my body got paralyzed and I started walking by dragging my feet. This Ghaybi punishment taught me a good admonitory lesson and I apologized to my father in floods of tears. Overcame by fatherly love, he had pity on me and forgave me. He then said to me, ‘My son, accompany me! I will make Du’a for your health exactly at the same place where I had cursed you.’

Hence, we were coming to Makkah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا on a she-camel. On the way suddenly it got scared and ran amok and my father fell over between two rocks and passed away. Now I have come alone here [to Haram-e-Ka’bah] and make Du’a in tears all the time to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the recovery of my health. Having heard his sad story, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم had pity on him and said, ‘O person! If your father had really been pleased with you, be relaxed, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ everything will get

better.’ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم then offered a few Rak’at of Salah and made Du’a for him and then said. ‘ قُمۡ!’ i.e. stand up! Listening to this he stood up without any trouble and started walking.

(Derived from: Hujjatullahi-‘alal-‘Aalameen, pp. 614)

کیوں نہ مُشکِل کُشا کہوں تم کو تم نے بِگڑی مِری بنائی ہے

Dear Islamic sisters! The above-mentioned parable contains countless Madani pearls of admonition for us as to how terrible punishment that person incurred upon him due to disobedience to his parents and committing sins persistently that one side of his body was paralyzed and then he would drag his legs while walking. Further, it has also been understood that we should not disobey our parents and should carry out their orders immediately if they are within the boundaries of Shari’ah. We should also protect ourselves from their curse and abstain from every such act that incurs their displeasure. From this parable we have also learnt the saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم that when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Du’a for the person in Divine court, his blessed Du’a was answered immediately and the paralytic person, who was dragging his legs while walking, recovered on the spot by virtue of the blessings of the Du’a of Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and started walking without any trouble.

بے سبب بخشش ہو میری یہ دُعا فرمایئے

مُصطَفٰے کا واسِطہ مولٰی علی مُشکل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The virtues and miracles of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم are really great and beyond description. His blessed glory is unique and unparalleled. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a great leader, lover of Hereafter, beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the door of the city of Knowledge and an eloquent orator who had great expertise in extracting the rulings from

the Holy Quran and Sunnah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a (guiding) light for the obedient and a friend for the pious, imam [leader] for those who promote justice and [the most outstanding quality is that] he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very tolerant and learned.

In his booklet namely, ‘Karamat-e-Sher-e-Khuda’ Shaykh-e-Tareeqat Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given his introduction in the following way:

Name, lineage and blessed appearance

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born in Makka-tul-Mukarramah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا . His mother Sayyidatuna Fatimah Bint-e-Asad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا named him after her father’s name ‘Haidar’ whereas his father named him ‘Ali’. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed him with the title ‘Asadullah’ (the Lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). In addition, other commendable names like, ‘Murtada’ (i.e. chosen), ‘Karrar’ (i.e. the one striking back repeatedly), ‘Shayr-e-Khuda’ and ‘Maula Mushkil-Kusha’ are his famous titles. He کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the paternal cousin of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 412, etc.) The fourth Caliph of Islam, the Janasheen of Rasool, the husband of Batool; the Kunniyat of Sayyiduna ‘Ali Bin ‘Abi Talib کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is ‘Abul -Hassan’ and ‘Abu Turab’.

اس نے لقبِ خاک شہنشاہ سے پایا جو حیدرِ کرّار کہ مولٰی ہے ہمارا

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 32)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the son of the Beloved Rasool’s paternal uncle, Abu Talib. After 30 years of ‘Aam-ul-Feel (when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 30 years old), Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born on Friday, the 13 th of Rajab-ul-Murajjab. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was only 10 years old and remained under the Tarbiyyat (edification) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained

busy supporting Islam and helping the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ enjoys a very distinguished reputation because of being amongst the ‘Muhajireen Awwaleen’ and the ‘Asharah Mubashsharah’ and possesses many other special ranks. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took part with exceptional bravery in the battles of Badr, Uhud, and Khandaq and killed many renowned and brave warriors of unbelievers (Kuffar) through his massive strikes.

دُشمن کا زَور بڑھ چلا ہے یا علی مدد! اب ذُوالفِقارِ حَیدَری پھر بے نِیام ہو

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 310)

After the martyrdom of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ, the Ansar and Muhajireen gave their (بیعت) vote of confidence to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and elected him as the Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, who held the office of caliphate for 4 years, 8 months and 9 days. On the 17 th or 19 th of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, he رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ was seriously wounded by a murder attempt of an accursed person and on 21 st Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, in the night of Sunday, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away as a martyr. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 132)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was neither very tall nor very short, but rather he was of medium height. His eyes were big and blessed face was extremely beautiful like that of the full moon. There was a distance between both of his shoulders. His palms and bones of shoulders were heavy and his blessed neck was (beautiful) like the long-necked silver flask. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not have hair on the front part of his blessed head, but rather he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had hair on his back part of the head. His blessed beard was thick and each hair was naturally dark without a hair dye. His hands and arms were very strong.

Childhood of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

Dear Islamic sisters! If we have a look at the childhood of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, we find it matchless and unparalleled too. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

remained constantly in the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from his childhood and received Tarbiyyat. The Beloved Rasool رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bore his expenses. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam in his childhood; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took active part in presenting call towards righteousness at a very young age and the troubles which came across in this way became the part of his learning. Listen to one of the beautiful parts of his blessed childhood.

First food of Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

His mother, Sayyidatuna Fatimah Bint-e-Asad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named him ‘Ali’ and put his blessed saliva into his mouth and put his blessed tongue into his mouth for blessings and he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم fell asleep in the same state. Next day, we called a midwife to breastfeed him, but he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم did not take milk. When this news reached the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came and put his blessed tongue into Sayyiduna ‘Ali’s mouth; while gaining blessings from the blessed tongue he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and fell asleep. Hence, it continued until Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ willed. (As-Seerat-ul-Halbiyah, pp. 382)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed the glory of Sayyiduna Ali Al-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is bestowing his blessings upon him by putting his blessed tongue into his mouth! On different occasions, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also revealed blessed Ayahs to mention the greatness and glory of his رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ blessed personality.

Who is the Maula of believers?

In Ayah 4 of Surah At-Tahreem, part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

فَاِنَّ اللّٰهَ هُوَ مَوْلٰىهُ وَ جِبْرِیْلُ وَ صَالِحُ الْمُؤْمِنِیْنَۚ-وَ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ بَعْدَ ذٰلِكَ ظَهِیْرٌ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is his helper, and Jibraeel, and the righteous believers and furthermore the angels are appointed as helpers.

(Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, Ayah 4)

Regarding the exegesis of the abovementioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Sayyid Mahmood Aaloosi Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Sayyidah Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Righteous believers mean Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم .

Similarly, Sayyiduna Abu Ja’far رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: When this blessed Ayah was revealed, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم held the hand of Sayyiduna Ali Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said: O people! He (i.e., Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم) is a righteous [believer] amongst believers. (Ruh-ul-Ma’ani, vol. 28, pp. 482)

Unique glory of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: When wealthy people prolonged the act of asking questions in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and, as a result, the poor got little time to submit their request in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then Divine commandment of giving Sadaqah before submitting requests was revealed and Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم acted upon this commandment. He after paying 1 Dinar in Sadaqah asked about some rulings.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘What is loyalty?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Tawheed (Oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and testifying the oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is a riot (فساد)?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Unbelief and Shirk.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is truth?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘When you get Islam, Quran and wilayat.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is compulsory for me?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked: ‘How should I make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

replied, ‘With absolute trust and belief.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What should I ask for?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘the Hereafter.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What should I do for my salvation?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Eat Halal and speak the truth.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is pleasure?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Paradise.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is comfort?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ When Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم finished his questions, the time of this commandment ended (منسوخ) and then everyone was allowed to ask questions without paying any Sadaqah. No one else except Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم got the time to act upon this blessed Ayah. (Tafseer Khazain-ul-‘Irfan) The blessed Ayah is as follows:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِذَا نَاجَیْتُمُ الرَّسُوْلَ فَقَدِّمُوْا بَیْنَ یَدَیْ نَجْوٰىكُمْ صَدَقَةًؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! When you wish to humbly consult with the Noble Messenger, give some charity before you consult. (Part 28, Surah Al-Mujadalah, verse 12)

Glory of Sayyiduna Ali in the light of blessed Ahadees

Dear Islamic sisters! We have heard the glory and eminence of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم from the different blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran. Besides this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated his glory and eminence in many blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to some sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: ‘ اَنۡتَ مِنِّي بِمَنۡزِلَةِ هَارُوۡنَ مِنۡ مُوۡسَى اِلَّا اَنَّهُ لَا نَبِيَّ بَعۡدِي ’ You are to me as was the status of Haroon عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام in the sight of Musa عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, but there is no Nabi after me.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1310, Hadees 2404)

2 ‘ عَلِيٌ مِّنِّي بِمَنۡزِلَةِ رَأسِيۡ مِنۡ بَدَنِيۡ ’ i.e., ‘Ali’s relation to me is like the relation of my head to my body.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 277, Hadees 32911)

3 ‘ اَنَا دَارُالۡحِكۡمَ ةِ وَعَلِيٌّ بَابُهَا ’ i.e. I am the home of wisdom and Ali is its door. (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 402, Hadees 3744)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how beautifully our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned the glory of Sayyiduna Ali Al-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ!

Apart from all these favours and saintly-miracles, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed countless virtues upon him. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: ‘Undoubtedly, the Holy Quran was revealed in seven (حروف) dialects; every one [dialect] of them has its apparent and hidden [meaning]. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is such a scholar who possesses both apparent and hidden knowledge’ (Tareekh-e-Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 42, pp. 400)

Similarly, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم possesses three such virtues that if I were blessed with even one of them, it would be more beloved to me than red camels.’ The blessed companions then asked about the three virtues. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said:

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married his daughter Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to him.

2 He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was living with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Masjid-un-Nabawi and for him, those things were also Halal in Masjid which are only specific to him.

3 The flag of Islam was given to him in the battle of Khyber.

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 94, Hadees 4689)

Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: (Sayyiduna) Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the best Qadi [Judge] amongst us and Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the best Qaari (reciter of the Holy Quran) amongst us. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 6, Hadees 21143)

بیاں کس منہ سے ہو اس مَجمَع البحرین کا رتبہ

جو مرکز ہے شریعت کا طریقت کا ہے سر چشمہ

Dear Islamic sisters سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How majestic is the eminence of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also felt envy (رشک) at his attributes. Here it is necessary to mention one ruling that there is an order in Khulafa-e-Rashideen in the sight of rightly guided Ahl-e-Sunnat School of Thought with respect to superiority and rank.

Talking about this Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are Jannah-dwellers. After the Ambiya and Mursaleen, Siddeeq-e-Akbar then ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam then ‘Usman-e-Ghani then Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are superior in this order to all the creatures of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ such as human beings, jinns, and angels. Superior here means being more respectable and having higher status in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 241-254)

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, all Khulafa-e-Rashideen were dearest and beloved of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated the virtues of all of them. The great scholar of Islamic Jurisprudence (Fiqh) of Ummah Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

اَنَا مَدِيۡنَةُ الۡعِلۡمِ وَاَبُوۡ بَكۡرٍ اَسَاسُهَا وَعُمَرُ حِيۡطَانُهَا وَعُثۡمَانُ سَقۡفُهَا وَعَلِيٌّ بَابُهَا

I am the city of knowledge, Abu Bakr is its foundation, ‘Umar is its wall, ‘Usman is its roof and Ali is its door. (Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadees 108)

ترے چاروں ہمدم ہیں یک جان یک دل

ابوبکر فاروق عثمان علی ہے

What Sayyiduna ‘Ali’s love demands

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murta d a کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: After the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Abu Bakr and ‘Umar are better than all.’ He added, ‘ لَا يَجۡتَمِعُ حُبِّيۡ وَبُغۡضُ اَبِيۡ بَكۡرٍ وَّ عُمَرَ فِيۡ قَلۡبِ مُؤۡمِنٍ Love for me and hatred towards Abu Bakr and Umar cannot gather in the heart of any believer. ’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 3 p. 79, Hadees 3920)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It means that Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is stating himself that if anyone claims to love me, he will have to love Shaykhayn-e-Karimayn, otherwise my love will bring no benefit. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has very beautifully illustrated the blessed eminence of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم in the form of a couplet:

بعدِ خُلَفائے ثَلاثہ سَب صَحابہ سے بڑا

آپ کو رُتبہ مِلا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to have love and respect and reverence for all great caliphs and blessed companions! Aameen

Madani In’amaat—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourself always with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, to propagate Sunnahs and adopt the blessed life style of pious saints of Islam and take part actively in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah after getting some time from your busy schedule. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore, do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. how many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling

out the blanks given in the booklet on the first day of every Madani month. Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, Jannat kay Talabgaraun kay Liye Madani Guldastah’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make effort to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani In’aam of making an individual effort distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month. Target per Zayli Halqah: At least 12 booklets

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭! Madani In’amaat is the best method of increasing the passion for acting upon and getting rid of sins.

٭ Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the pioneer of Dawat-e-Islami is very pleased with the ones, who act upon Madani In’amaat, and blesses them with Du’as.

٭ By virtue of acting upon Madani In’amaat one gets the enormous wealth of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ This great gift of Madani In’amaat reminds us of pious predecessors.

٭ Following in the footsteps of pious predecessors Madani In’amaat is the best source of observing Fikr-e-Madinah i.e. to make accountability of your own deeds. A Madani parable is presented below for persuasion.

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable.

Madani parable

Given below is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Sargodha, Punjab (Pakistan): I was not a practicing Muslim before I associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I was the epitome of fashion and fond of visiting public parks because of the company of my modern friends. I would neither offer Salah nor keep fast. As for Islamic veiling, I was allergic to it. All I would do was to watch movies on TV and VCR. I was so headstrong that I did not listen to anyone. I was a student of 1st year in those days.

One day, someone gifted me a cassette of Sunnah-inspiring speech named ‘ Wudu and Science ’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. The speech was informative and very interesting. Inspired by listening to the speech, I started attending the locally-held Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami for Islamic sisters. The blessings of Madani environment started brightening my dull life. With the passage of time I succeeded in repenting of my bad habits, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I started wearing Madani Burqa’ after some time. My family members, relatives and friends were all very astonished at this amazing change. They all felt as if they had been dreaming but it was a reality.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Now I give Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat at my home. Besides it, I also make efforts to step up Madani activities with other Islamic sisters. It has become my routine to fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily and to submit it every month. One day, I was blessed with a great favour for which I should always remain grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When I went to sleep at night, fortune smiled on me. I dreamt that the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami was going on. I was sitting near a window through which breeze was coming. I involuntarily looked out of the window and saw clouds in the sky. I started reciting Salam-‘Alan-Nabi spontaneously:

Ay saba Mustafa say keh dayna

Gham kay maaray Salam kehtay hayn

Suddenly, a very handsome personage with a luminous face wearing white clothes and a green ‘Imamah on his head came, smiling. I was lost in seeing the blessed face. I then heard a voice. ‘He is the Holy Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم .’ I woke up. Overwhelmed, I was moved to tears on my good fortune. I wished I had seen the blessed face again and again. Every night, I still sleep reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi with the hope that fortune may again smile on me.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayings of Sayyiduna Ali

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated such beautiful admonitory Madani pearls full of wisdom and knowledge that if we act upon them, we will succeed in the world and the Hereafter both.

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated: ‘Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated such beautiful sayings that if people act upon them, they will attain success and will never do bad deeds.’ People humbly asked, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! What are those sayings? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: Those admonitory sayings are as follows: He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

1 Take care of likes of your Muslim brother, do good to him, then you will also get your favourite thing from him.

2 Never have bad assumption in the conversation of your Muslim brother. (i.e. always find good aspect) you will surely find something good in his conversation.

3 When you have two acts, do not indulge in the act at all in which you have to follow Nafs because following Nafs causes complete loss.

4 Whenever you want to implore in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for your need, recite Salat upon His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly before making Du’a. Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses the person abundantly who asks for his needs from Him; then if someone asks for two things from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the thing upon him that is better for him and prevents the bondman from the thing that is harmful to him.

5 If someone wants to become busy all the time with Zikr [remembrance] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he should make patience his habit and have patience on every trouble.

6 And the person who desires for [long life in] worldly life should be prepared for troubles.

7 The person who wants to retain his honour and respect should refrain from show-off.

8 Do not ask any question unnecessarily about the thing which has nothing to do with you.

9 Value health before illness and get abundant benefits from the spare time, otherwise you will face grief and trouble.

10 Steadfastness is a half success just as grief is a half old age.

11 Give up the thing that raises a doubt in your heart because you will stay safe if you give it up. (‘Uyun-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 173)

Dear Islamic sisters! The abovementioned blessed sayings are so comprehensive and full of wisdom that if someone acts upon them, she will attain immense privileges of the world and the Hereafter. She will not face embarrassment in any matter of the world and the Deen. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated the best method of living life through these sayings. If we live our lives accordingly, very soon we will attain progress and success and the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If we want to get information about the admonitory sayings and Madani pearls full of wisdom and knowledge of blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی along with their blessed life’s circumstances, we should study a 324-page book namely, ‘ 152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ This remarkable book contains short biographies of 92 pious personages رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, parables of forgiveness and countless sayings. You are requested to study this book yourself and also persuade others to do so. This book can be downloaded, read and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will also start receiving the blessings of the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to follow in the footsteps of pious predecessors!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

The sacred month of Ramadan is showering its blessings and mercy upon us. In this month, where some pious people’s ‘Urs is celebrated and their remembrance is done, the birth day of a pious bondman and saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also celebrated who is known to the world by the name of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . His reputation and greatness are acknowledged from the bottom of the heart. Let’s listen about him with reference to his birth day in the sacred month of Ramadan.

Introduction to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was born on the 26 th of Ramadan, 1369 AH (1950 AD) in Karachi, Pakistan. His forefathers lived in the village of Kutyanah in Junagadh, India. His grandfather, ‘Abdur Raheem was renowned for his virtues and exemplary character. His parents migrated to Pakistan, after independence [from the British rule]. They initially lived in Hyderabad, Bab-ul-Islam [Sindh, Pakistan] but later moved to Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi and since then he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has been living in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi).

His passion for Islamic knowledge

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had a deep yearning to gain Islamic knowledge. That’s why he had gained Islamic knowledge in his youth. The sources to gain Islamic knowledge were books and the company of Islamic scholars, specifically the grand Mufti of Pakistan, Shaykh Mufti Waqaruddin Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه continuously attained blessings from him for twenty-two years and then the time also came when the grand Mufti of Pakistan blessed Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه with the honour of being his Khalifah [spiritual successor].

His daily routine

He is famous for punctuality of time and steadfastness. He continuously offers Salah with Jama’at and takes care of Sunnah and manners all the time. He usually likes to wear simple and white dress without being ironed, and also wears a green ‘Imamah of small size on his head. He is very active in the matters of reforming people. He never keeps quiet if he finds someone else performing an act that is contrary to Shari’ah or Sunnah, but rather he immediately reforms him in a very polite and loving manner.

In this critical age, due to having no tendency towards Islamic knowledge and no awareness of Islamic rulings and having everyone’s attention to only worldly knowledge ignorance is becoming widespread everywhere. Under such adverse conditions, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had been busy serving Islam day and night and then he laid the foundation of a great and global, non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami in 1401, AH (1981). Surely Madani revolution is taking place in the life of those who are associated with him. People are repenting of their sins and performing virtuous deeds. Therefore, we should associate ourselves with Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and try to accomplish the following Madani aim given to us by him: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about refraining from wastage of water

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about refraining from wastage of water. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There is no good in using a large quantity of water in Wudu, this is from Satan. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 144, Hadees 26255)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم noticed someone doing Wudu and remarked, ‘Do not waste, do not waste.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 254, Hadees 424)

٭ Scholars unanimously agree that it is Haraam to use more than the required amount of Waqf water for Wudu, since it is not permissible to use this water more than required.

٭ Some people fill water in their hands in a way that water spills. The spilled water is wasted. Care must be taken in this regard.

٭ Repent of all past unlawful wastage and make every possible attempt to avoid it in future.

٭ During Wudu, open the tap carefully. During Wudu, keep one hand on the tap wherever possible and keep turning the tap off when the water is not needed.

٭ Avoid draining cold water for using hot water for Wudu, Ghusl, washing clothes, utensils etc. Pay attention to it especially in winter. You can avoid wasting this cold water by collecting it in some sort of container (for later use).

٭ Also use water carefully when forming soap lather (rubbing your hands) in order to clean your hands or face.

٭ After use, place your soap in a totally water free soap holder.

٭ Rather than throw away any leftover drinking water in a glass, offer it to someone else or make some other good use of it.

٭ If you have a constantly leaking tap, you must take immediate action to get it repaired; otherwise water will continue to go to waste.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

