اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Sacrifices of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ غَدًا رَاضِیًا ’ the one who likes that Allah Almighty be pleased with him when he is presented in the

court of Allah Almighty, ‘ فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ then he should recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Turned dream into reality

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam is showering its blessings and fragrances. This is such a blessed month in which the beloved Nabi of Allah, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام displayed such observance of patience and pleasure along with his beloved son, Sayyiduna Isma’eel Zabeehullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, that its example cannot be found. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw a dream on the 8th night of Zul Hajj. Someone was saying in it: “Indeed, Allah Almighty commands you to slaughter your son.” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw the same dream on the 9th night. After seeing the same dream on the 10th night, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a firm intention to act upon this dream, i.e. slaughter his son, in the morning. (Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 346; Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 2-3)

While acting upon the command of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام took along his beloved son who was 7 years old at that time (or 13 years old or slightly more). (Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 3)

Then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام tied Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام the way he asked him to tie. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام sharpened his knife, laid down Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام on his forehead, removed his gaze from his face and used the knife on his throat. However, the knife did not work, i.e. the throat did not get cut. At that time, revelation revealed upon Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah Almighty says in part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah no 104 to 107:

وَ نَادَیْنٰهُ اَنْ یّٰۤاِبْرٰهِیْمُۙ(۱۰۴) قَدْ صَدَّقْتَ الرُّءْیَاۚ-اِنَّا كَذٰلِكَ نَجْزِی الْمُحْسِنِیْنَ(۱۰۵) اِنَّ هٰذَا لَهُوَ الْبَلٰٓؤُا الْمُبِیْنُ(۱۰۶) وَ فَدَیْنٰهُ بِذِبْحٍ عَظِیْمٍ(۱۰۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We called out to him; that, ‘O Ibraheem!’ ‘You have indeed made the dream come true.’ And this is how We reward the virtuous. Indeed this was a clear test. And We rescued him (Isma’eel) in exchange for a great sacrifice. (Part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah 104 to 107)

Dear Islamic brothers! This parable not only proves the great rank of Sayyiduna Isma’eel’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام patience and contentment upon the Will of

Allah Almighty, but also highlights how devotedly Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was obedient and submissive to Allah Almighty.

Can everyone sacrifice their sons upon seeing a dream?

Remember! No one can sacrifice his own or someone else’s son or any human being based on a dream or a voice heard from the unseen. If one does so, he will be a grave sinner and deserving of the hellfire. It is true that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got ready to sacrifice his son based on a dream because he is a Nabi and dream of a Nabi is Wahee [revelation] from Allah Almighty. It was a test for these illustrious individuals. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام brought a Heavenly sheep and with the command of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام slaughtered the Heavenly sheep instead of his beloved son. (Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 19)

Introduction of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

His name is “Ibraheem”. Ibraheem is a Syriac [1] word. It means اَبٌ رَحِیْمٌ (i.e. kind father) because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was very kind towards the children. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is famous for his hospitality and compassionate behaviour. This is why he is called Ibraheem. Some people have said that Ibraheem was actually Abram. It means Buzurg [a pious personality]. Because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the father of various blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and his reverence is mentioned in all religions to the extent that even the polytheists of Arab also used to revere him, that’s why his blessed name was Ibraheem. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 1, pp. 618)

His Kunyah is Abu Dayfaan [ ابُو الضَّیْفان ], i.e. extremely hospitable. Because his house was at the street side, that’s why whoever would pass by there, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would extend hospitality. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 434)

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born in a place called “Saus” in “Ahwaaz”. Then his father brought him in “Baabil”, the country of Namrood. Allah Almighty blessed him

with wisdom and intellect and made him observe everything of this earth and the sky. Therefore, Allah Almighty has said:

وَ كَذٰلِكَ نُرِیْۤ اِبْرٰهِیْمَ مَلَكُوْتَ السَّمٰوٰتِ وَ الْاَرْضِ وَ لِیَكُوْنَ مِنَ الْمُوْقِنِیْنَ(۷۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And likewise We show Ibraheem the entire kingdom of the heavens and the earth and so that he be of those who believe with certainty of sight. (Part 7, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 75)

10 Special excellences

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام attained 10 such excellences that are specific only to him. Those excellences are as follows:

1 After our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the most superior.

2 Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام is the father of all the Ambiya Kiraam succeeding him. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 52)

3 Every divinely-revealed religion has declared it obligatory to follow and obey him.

4 The followers of every religion honour him.

5 Sacrificing (of animal) is in fact his remembrance.

6 Rites of Hajj are in fact his remembrance.

7 He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the first to have built the Holy Ka’bah, making it like a house.

8 People began to stand in worship and perform prostration near the stone he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام stood on while building the Holy Ka’bah. [This stone is referred to as Maqaam-e-Ibraheem.]

9 He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and his respected wife, Sayyidatuna Saarah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, bring up the deceased Muslim children in Barzakh [1] .

10 On the Day of Judgement, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will be the first to be bestowed upon excellent attire. Immediately after him, our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be blessed with this favour. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 1, pp. 621; Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 12)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Our Nabi is the most superior and highly ranked

Dear Islamic brothers! The last excellence stated above that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will be blessed with the elegant garment first on the day of Judgement, and then after him, it would be our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; listening to it, one might get the whisper that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is superior to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام being blessed with the special attire on the Day of Judgement is a fact, however, our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is [the most] superior. Allah Almighty says in part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah number 253:

تِلْكَ الرُّسُلُ فَضَّلْنَا بَعْضَهُمْ عَلٰى بَعْضٍۘ-مِنْهُمْ مَّنْ كَلَّمَ اللّٰهُ وَ رَفَعَ بَعْضَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٍؕ-وَ اٰتَیْنَا عِیْسَى ابْنَ مَرْیَمَ الْبَیِّنٰتِ وَ اَیَّدْنٰهُ بِرُوْحِ الْقُدُسِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: These are Messengers; that We have exalted one above the other; amongst them is one with whom Allah spoke, and one is that whom (Allah) elevated in rank above all. And We gave ‘Isa; the son of Maryam, clear signs and We helped him with the pure spirit (Angel Jibra`eel).

Under the commentary of this Ayah, it is stated in Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 1, page 379, a commentary of the Holy Quran published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

In this Ayah, three blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام have specially been mentioned out of all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . One is Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah

Almighty conversed with him without any means on Koh-e-Toor [1] ; whereas same privilege was granted to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the night of Mi’raaj. The second Nabi who has been mentioned in this Ayah is Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who was blessed with apparent signs; for example, resurrecting the dead, curing the ill, making a bird out of clay, giving the pieces of news of unseen, etc. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was helped through Ruh-ul-Qudus, i.e. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who always used to be with him. Then comes that blessed personality whose rank and status are far above all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, about whom it is stated that We have elevated him to great degrees. And this personality is our Master, the embodiment of Noor, leader of Ambiya, Muhammad Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been given superiority over all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام by numerous ranks. The entire Ummah has consensus over this belief and this belief is proven from numerous Ahadees.

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is superior to all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام ; to the extent that the attributes and high ranks that were blessed to even Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, they too were due to the sake of our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because this world and everything that it contains was created for the sake of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Pointing towards the same reality, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states:

ہوتے کہاں خلیل و بِنا، کَعبہ و مِنٰی

لَولاک والے صاحِبی سب تیرے گھر کی ہے

I.e. A’la Hadrat states: Every being’s existence is due to the blessings of the Noor [illumination] of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were not created, then neither would have Sayyiduna Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the one who built Ka’bah, existed, nor would have the foundations of blessed Ka’bah been laid down and nor there would have been so liveliness in Mina. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish by Maulana Hasan Qaadiri, pp. 585)

So even the universe was created for the sake of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the life in the entire universe is also due to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When Allah Almighty decided to populate the universe with the Creation, then He Almighty created the Noor of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . At that time, there was neither jinn nor any human, there was no Lawh and neither was there Qalam, there was no Heaven and Hell, neither was there any Hoor and nor was there any angel, there was no earth and sky and nor had the sun and moon been created. At that time, Allah Almighty created Lawh and Qalam, and ‘Arsh and Kursi with the Noor of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Then, Allah Almighty created sky and earth, and Heaven and Hell with that blessed Noor. In short, the purpose of the creation of the universe is the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As it is the summary of a Hadees-e-Qudsi.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates: Allah Almighty sent a revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O ‘Isa! Embrace faith upon Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! And whosoever among your Ummah reaches his era, command them as well to embrace faith upon him. ‘ فَلَوْ لَامُحَمَّدٌ مَا خَلَقْتُ اٰدَمَ وَلَا الْجَنَّۃَ وَلَاالنَّار َ ’ i.e. if Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) was not created, then I would not have created Aadam, neither Paradise and nor Hell. When I created ‘Arsh over water, it was shaking at that time. I inscribed ‘ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہِ ’ on it. Hence, it became stable.

(Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 14)

Therefore, the whole universe’s liveliness is due to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is stated in Hadees-e-Qudsi:

لَقَدْخَلَقْتُ الْدُنْیَا وَاَھْلَھَا لِاُعَرِّفَھُمْ کَرَامَتَکَ وَمَنْزِلَتَکَ عِنْدِیْ وَلَوْلاَکَ یَامُحَمَّدُ! مَاخَلَقْتُ الدُّنْیَا

i.e. O My Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I created the world and its dwellers so that I make them acquainted of your dignity and majesty that you hold in My court, and O My Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! If you did not exist, I would not have created the world. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 3, pp. 518; Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 521)

So we came to know that everything in this world, even the existence of all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام is due to only our Beloved Master, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the soul of the universe.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Inviting the nation towards righteousness

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah Almighty blessed Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with the highest rank among all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام after our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty, along with blessing His chosen and beloved bondmen with comfort and ease, also tests them by afflicting hardships. Moreover, instead of complaining over the trials and tests, these dignified personalities always endure them happily. Allah Almighty also tested Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with various things and with the grace and mercy of Allah Almighty, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام succeeded in every test. His nation was indulged in the curse of polytheism. When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام announced his Prophethood, he started from his [paternal] uncle within his own family and invited him to abstain from polytheism and invited him towards believing in Allah Almighty to be the true and sole Lord. As a result, instead of accepting his invitation, his uncle became his enemy. This parable has been mentioned as following in the Holy Quran. Therefore, Allah Almighty states in part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah number 42 and 43:

قَالَ لِاَبِیْهِ یٰۤاَبَتِ لِمَ تَعْبُدُ مَا لَا یَسْمَعُ وَ لَا یُبْصِرُ وَ لَا یُغْنِیْ عَنْكَ شَیْــٴًـا(۴۲) یٰۤاَبَتِ اِنِّیْ قَدْ جَآءَنِیْ مِنَ الْعِلْمِ مَا لَمْ یَاْتِكَ فَاتَّبِعْنِیْۤ اَهْدِكَ صِرَاطًا سَوِیًّا(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When he said to his father (i.e. his uncle Aazar) ‘O my father, why do you worship the one who neither hears nor sees, and cannot benefit you in any way?’ ‘O my father, indeed there has come to me that knowledge which did not come to you, therefore follow me; I will show you the straight path.’ (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 42-43)

Dear Islamic brothers! In this Ayah, uncle of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has been referred to as his father. While mentioning its reason, Sadr-ul-Afadil, Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: It is stated in Qamoos that Aazar is the name of Sayyiduna Ibraheem’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام [paternal] uncle. Imam ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written the same in Masalik-ul-Hunafa. It is a custom to call [paternal] uncle as father in all the countries, especially in ‘Arab. It is stated in the Holy Quran:

نَعْبُدُ اِلٰهَكَ وَ اِلٰهَ اٰبَآىٕكَ اِبْرٰهٖمَ وَ اِسْمٰعِیْلَ وَ اِسْحٰقَ اِلٰهًا وَّاحِدًا ۖ -

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We shall worship He who is your God and the God of your fathers, Ibraheem, Isma’eel and Ishaaq; the only One God. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 261)

In short, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام explained his [paternal] uncle in every possible way but he did not agree to leave the old religion and replied in a very harsh manner; which Holy Quran mentions in part 16, Ayah number 46 of Surah Maryam in the following words:

قَالَ اَرَاغِبٌ اَنْتَ عَنْ اٰلِهَتِیْ یٰۤاِبْرٰهِیْمُۚ-لَىٕنْ لَّمْ تَنْتَهِ لَاَرْجُمَنَّكَ وَ اهْجُرْنِیْ مَلِیًّا(۴۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He (Aazar) said, ‘What! Do you turn your face from my gods, O Ibraheem? If you do not desist, I will certainly stone you; and do not have any connection with me for a long time.’

Cold fire

After his uncle refused to accept his invitation and became his enemy, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام invited his nation; but they too refused to accept his invitation. However, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام remained determined to invite his nation towards righteousness and take them out of the dark valleys of disbelief and polytheism, but they did not abstain from it and they too became his enemy and started saying:

قَالُوا اقْتُلُوْهُ اَوْ حَرِّقُوْهُ

They said, “Kill him or burn him”. (Part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 24)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, Sayyiduna Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Namrood and his people agreed to burn Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and imprisoned him in a house. Then they built a building in Qaryah Koosa and strived intensely to gather various types of wood for a whole month. Then they lit a huge fire. Due to its heat, birds flying in the air would get burnt. Thereafter, they placed a catapult, tied Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and threw him in the fire using the catapult. At that time, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was proclaiming ‘ حَسْبِیَ اﷲُ وَ نِعْمَ الْوَکِیْلُ ’ [ i.e. Allah is sufficient for me, and what an excellent Custodian of matters (He is) ]. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to him, “Do you need me?” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, “Not you”. Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: “Then ask (for help from) your Lord Almighty.” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, “Rather than asking (Him for help), His knowing my state suffices me.” (Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Ayah 68)

At that time, Allah Almighty commanded the fire:

قُلْنَا یٰنَارُ كُوْنِیْ بَرْدًا وَّ سَلٰمًا عَلٰۤى اِبْرٰهِیْمَۙ(۶۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We said, ‘O fire! Become cool and peaceful upon Ibraheem.’ (Part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Ayah 69)

Therefore, the fire did not burn anything else except what he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was tied with. Heat of the fire was removed and its light remained. (Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Taht-al-Ayah 69)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Observing patience over trials is the way of Ambiya

Dear Islamic brothers! You heard that with what courage, steadfastness, determination and patience Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام invited his nation towards the right path. Firstly, his household became his enemy, and then his nation also became his enemy. Despite this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not abandon

spreading the invitation of the Deen; rather, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام continued to strive for their reformation. To the extent that they planned to burn him alive in the fire; but still, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not lose courage in front of them, and look at the heights of the observance of his patience that at that time, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام even came and humbly asked if you need something. If so, let me know. I will fulfil it. But may we get sacrificed upon the majesty of Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that even at that time, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام remained an embodiment of patience and contentment. Those Islamic brothers should also learn a lesson from this parable who keep complaining over the hardships they face while presenting invitation towards righteousness in the path of Allah Almighty.

Remember! To propagate Deen is the blessed Sunnah of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and to observe patience over the hardships faced in this path is also the way of these sacred personages. Allah Almighty tests Ambiya and Mursaleen عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and Awliya-e-Kamileen رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, and upon their patience over these hardships, the Merciful and Compassionate Lord Almighty Blesses them with numerous rewards and elevates their ranks with His Mercy. We shall also observe patience for the pleasure of Allah Almighty in case we face hardships and calamities while presenting the call towards righteousness. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ with its blessings, we will attain abundant of reward. In this relation, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop a yearning for acting upon it:

-1 One who observed patience over a calamity, to the extent that he responded it with patience, then Allah Almighty will write three hundred (300) ranks for him. There will be a distance of earth and sky between every two ranks. (Al-Jaami’-us-Sagheer lis-Suyuti, pp. 317, Hadees 5137)

-2 Allah Almighty keeps a person inflicted with a calamity to the extent that the calamity erases all his sins. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 1, pp. 668, Hadees 1326)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Daurah, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! We heard about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that what great hardships he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام faced in the way of presenting call towards righteousness; but despite this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not back off and kept fulfilling this important obligation duly. Acting upon his Sunnah, we shall also present call towards righteousness to those who remain indulged in sins and are lazy in offering their Salah, or do not offer Salah at all. In order to perform this task in an efficient manner, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and actively participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli-Halqah. One out of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli-Halqah is also “Madani Daurah” (Madani visit).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to act upon this beautiful Sunnah of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami persuades us to participate in “Madani Daurah” every week. By the blessings of Madani Daurah, the number of Salah offering people increases in Masjid. By the blessings of Madani Daurah, spoilt individuals of the society get associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and start acting upon Salat and Sunnahs. Therefore, we should also take out time and actively participate in this great Madani activity. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of Madani Daurah and sway out of joy.

Blessing of Madani Daurah

Once, an Islamic brother went to an area from Madani Tarbiyyat-Gah to conduct a Madani Daurah. The responsible Islamic brother of the area said that Madani Qafilahs do not get ready from this area and nor does the Madani Daurah become fruitful here. However, Islamic brothers of Madani Markaz went there and started Madani Daurah according to the procedure prescribed by the Madani Markaz. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the blessing of following the method prescribed by the Madani Markaz, many Islamic brothers came to Masjid straight away from Asr to Maghrib. A Bayan was delivered after Maghrib Salah and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ a Madani Qafilah got ready straight away and left to travel in the path of Allah Almighty.

Tests and trials in devotion

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to the blessed wife of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyidatuna Bibi Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . After the birth of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام received a Wahee [revelation] that leave Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in such land that has nothing but desolate fields and dry mountains. Therefore, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام embarked upon a journey with Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and came to the place where the blessed Ka’bah is situated. At that time, no one resided there, neither was there any water spring and nor was there any sign of water or human far and wide.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left leaving few dates in a utensil and water in a bowl. Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا pleaded: ‘O Nabi of Allah Almighty! Where are you going leaving us helpless in this desolate place where there is no companion nor any sympathiser?’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا called him several times but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not respond at all. In the end, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا asked that ‘just tell us whether you have left us here at your own will or upon the command of Allah Almighty?’ Then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied that ‘O Haajirah! Whatever I did is upon the command of Allah Almighty.’ Upon listening to this, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘You may go now. I have firm belief and fully satisfied that Allah Almighty will not make me and my child perish.’

Within a few days, dates and water finished and Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا felt severe hunger and thirst. Her milk had also dried up and the child became restless due to hunger and thirst. In the search of water, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ran between the hills of Safa and Marwah seven (7) times, but no signs of water could be seen anywhere. Due to the intensity of thirst, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was crying tapping his heels on the ground. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel tapped his blessed foot on the ground close to Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ’s blessed heels and made the Zamzam spring emerge there. According to another narration, the Zamzam spring emerged from the blessed heel of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 4, pp. 67)

This water possessed the characteristics of milk and used to work as both, food and water. Therefore, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام survived drinking this very water of Zamzam; to the extent that Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام became grown-up and started hunting. So, they started living on the hunted meat and the water of Zamzam. Then some people of the tribe of Jurham came in this field while grazing their goats. Upon looking at the spring of water, they also dwelled there with the permission of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Moreover, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got married to one of the girls of this tribe and gradually, this place became populated. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, pp. 145; summarized)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Exemplary obedience!

Dear Islamic brothers! From this parable, we come to know that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was an extremely obedient and submissive bondman of Allah Almighty. The son that he was blessed with after numerous Du’as in his old age; the son who was the apple of his eyes and peace of his heart; being a father, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could never separate him naturally from himself; but for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his beloved son and wife in the desolate valley of ‘ بَطْحا ’ [Batha] where there was not even a single leaf as a shelter or not even a drop of water to quench thirst, and neither was there anyone to help nor was there any companion or sympathiser.

If it was anyone of us, then perhaps just thinking about it would have made every strand of our hair shiver. In fact, due to extreme distress, it would have given us a cardiac arrest. However, listening to the command of Allah Almighty, neither did Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام become worried, nor did he think about it even for a moment and nor did he shatter due to the distress or sorrow. Rather, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to the land of Makkah from Syria with his wife and child in order to fulfil the command of Allah Almighty straight away. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his wife and child in Makkah and returned to Syria.

اَللّٰہُ اَکْبَر! May our life be sacrificed upon such passion of obedience and determination of submissiveness!

Would that! We also become the travellers of Madani Qafilah in the path of Allah Almighty with the devotees of Rasool by separating ourselves from the apple of our eyes, peace of our hearts, our children not for various years or months, but just for three (3) days in a month for propagating Islam, learning Sunnahs and spreading invitation towards righteousness among people for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. May we get used to participating in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ with our mature and grown up children. May we have the privilege of adopting the Sunnahs of having a beard, blessed turban and other Sunnahs as well as persuading our children to act upon them too.

سُنَّتوں کی کروں خُوب خِدمت ہر کسی کو دُوں نیکی کی دعوت

نیک میں بھی بنوں اِلتِجا ہے یا خُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Content upon the Will of Allah Almighty

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent all his life sacrificing in the path of Allah Almighty. Whenever there was a command of Allah Almighty, then while fulfilling the command, at times he abstained his household from committing shirk (polytheism) and at times, he faced enmity from his nation by presenting them the call towards righteousness. At times, he relayed the true message of Tawheed and Risalah to the ruler of the time and at times, he had to go through fire due to his nation. The infant child that he was blessed with in an old age after various desires and supplications, upon the command of Allah Almighty, he left that child and his mother in the deserted field where there was not even a single tree for shade and without any worldly support or shelter. And at times, he did not even hold back from using a knife on the delicate neck of the same son with his own hands. In short, his entire life can be seen to be spent in the obedience of Allah Almighty. Every aspect of the biography of his blessed life gives us a lesson to remain

content upon the Will of Allah Almighty. What can be said about his passion to remain content upon the Will of Allah Almighty in every state! Would that! We too remain content upon the Will of our Allah Almighty like him. Would that! We also lead a life which is filled with the obedience of Allah Almighty.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got ready to even sacrifice his offspring in the path of Allah Almighty. Would that! We at least spend some time of ours in the path of Allah Almighty. Along with travelling with the Madani Qafilahs frequently, may we also become practicing upon the Madani In’amaat and actively partake in the Madani activities.

Another lesson that we get from the blessed life of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is that no matter how big a calamity befalls upon us or how big trial we are inflicted with, we shall spend that time remaining content upon the Will of Allah Almighty with patience and gratitude. For example, even if we get inflicted by any calamity, then rather than mourning over it and creating a scene, we should keep an eye on the great reward that awaits us. There are so many such bounties that we have obtained without asking for them and they are continuously increasing. Undoubtedly, numerous bounties of Allah Almighty are descending upon every particle of the entire universe faster than the stormy rain every instance, every moment, more than the drops of rain, leaves of trees, drops of ocean and sand particles without them being asked for. One cannot even imagine counting them. Allah Almighty is proclaiming them in His Holy Book, the Glorious Quran. Therefore, it is stated:

وَ اِنْ تَعُدُّوْا نِعْمَتَ اللّٰهِ لَا تُحْصُوْهَاؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And if you count the favours of Allah, you will never be able to count them. (Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah 34)

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed there is no doubt in the fact that a person can never be dissociated from the unlimited and countless blessings of Allah Almighty at any time, any moment or in any state. Therefore, even if a tribulation befalls upon us or some bounty is taken away from us, yet there are other countless blessings of Allah Almighty. Therefore, wise is the one

who observes patience in such times and tolerates tribulations for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to its blessings, we will attain abundant of reward. Therefore, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 Whatever difficulty, torture, anxiety, grief and sorrow a Muslim receives, to the extent that even if he gets pricked by a thorn, then Allah Almighty erases his sins due to these afflictions. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 3, Hadees 5640)

-2 On the Day of Judgement, when a proclaimer will announce: ‘Who is the one whose reward is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty?’ The creation will say: ‘Who is the one whose reward is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty?’ The angels will reply: ‘The one who was inflicted with such calamity (in the world) due to which his heart became distressed, tears flowed from [his] eyes, but out of hope of reward, he observed patience for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Today, he shall stand up and take his reward from Allah Almighty.’ (Naykiyaun ki Jaza’ayn aur Gunahaun ki Saza’ayn, pp. 63)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of sacrifice

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall also try to develop the habit of patience and thankfulness within ourselves. One great way of implementing these noble characteristics in our character is also to study the biography and character of our righteous predecessors. When we will read the parables of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and distinguished Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our lives will also blossom with the Madani fragrance of their characters. Today, we heard about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent his entire life in the obedience of Allah Almighty. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام practically sacrificed his life, soul and wealth upon the command of Allah Almighty; to the extent that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not even hold back from sacrificing his beloved son in the path of Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty liked this action of his so much that He Almighty commanded the entire Muslim Ummah to sacrifice an animal while

following this action of His Khaleel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Therefore, Qurbani (sacrificing an animal) is Wajib upon every Muslim man and woman who is Baaligh, resident and sahib-e-Nisaab (financially capable). (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 292)

Being Sahib-e-Nisaab (financially capable) means that a person has fifty-two and a half (52.5) Tola silver, or equivalent cash, or trading goods equivalent to that amount, or goods (that are beyond one’s Haajat-e-Asliyyah [necessities]) equivalent to that amount. Moreover, he does not have outstanding debt to pay off to Allah Almighty or people to the amount that if he pays it off, then the monetary value of the aforementioned assets will reduce below the monetary value of 52.5 Tola silver. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 187)

Fuqaha-e-Kiraam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی state: Haajat-e-Asliyyah (necessary provisions for life) means those things which a person normally needs and finds it extremely difficult to spend his life without them. For example, house to live in, clothes to wear, ride, books regarding the knowledge of Deen, work tools etc. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 172)

Numerous Ahadees mention the virtues of sacrifice. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this relation:

-1 Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Arqam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: Blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked, “Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What are the sacrifices?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “They are the Sunnah of your father, Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .” The blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked: “Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What reward is held in them for us?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “There is one virtue in exchange of every hair.” They humbly asked: “And in wool?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “There is a reward of one virtue in exchange of every hair of it too.”

(Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 3, pp. 531, Raqm 3127)

-2 It is stated in another blessed Hadees: O people! Perform sacrifice wholeheartedly and hope for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and reward upon its blood, even if it has fallen on the ground; because it falls in the protection of Allah Almighty. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 148, Hadees 8319)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! One upon whom sacrifice is Wajib due to the Shar’i principles, it is necessary for him to learn the rulings of sacrifice as well. Due to being distanced from ilm-e-Deen in the current era, Muslims are unable to perform this important obligation properly. The state of religious knowledge of a large number in our society is such that various Sahib-e-Nisab individuals living in the same house will sacrifice one goat on behalf of the whole family. Moreover, they don’t know at all that what kind of animal should it be for sacrifice? Or which fault in the animal will nullify the sacrifice? Furthermore, they keep assuming after the sacrifice that we have also acted upon the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and our Wajib has been performed; whereas, fulfilment of Wajib still remains to be performed on their account. That’s why, it is absolutely vital to know the rulings of sacrifice.

In relation to the issues faced in sacrificing an animal, study of the 48-page booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, namely “ Piebald Horse Rider ” will be extremely beneficial. Every Islamic brother should read it at least once before performing the sacrifice. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will attain immense knowledge of Deen and also become aware of various rulings of sacrifice. In order to get more information regarding the sacrificing of an animal, read the rulings of Qurbani from Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s published book “ Bahar-e-Shari’at, volume 3, part 15”, or contact Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat.

Introduction to the IT Majlis

Dear Islamic brothers! “IT Majlis” is also one of the departments of Dawat-e-Islami. Its task is to present fragrant Madani pearls of Islam to the people of the entire world through Information Technology. One of the prominent works of the IT. Majlis is also to compile the masterpieces by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Fatawa Razawiyyah and the translation of the Holy Quran Kanz-ul- Iman, in the form of software. These efforts are extremely commendable. With the collaboration of Majlis-e-Tawqeet, such software has also been introduced that is extremely beneficial in finding out the correct Salah timings on the computer and mobile phones etc. More than 400 books can

be easily read through Al Madina library software. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all these software from the IT Majlis can also be purchased in the form of a CD from Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Qurbani

-1 The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘On the day of Eid-ul-Adha, man performs no other good deed that is dearer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ than shedding blood (of the sacrificial animal). This sacrificed animal will come with its horns, hair and hooves and the sacrifice is accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before the blood of the sacrificed animal reaches the ground. Therefore, perform the Qurbani wholeheartedly.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 162, Hadees 1498)

-2 The one who wholeheartedly performs Qurbani of an animal for reward, his Qurbani will serve as a barrier between him and hellfire. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 84, Hadees 2736)

-3 Determine the direction of the Qiblah before making the Qurbani animal lie down, as turning it towards the Qiblah by dragging it after making it lie down, especially on a stony ground is extremely painful for it.

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls about ‘ Qurbani ’ will be mentioned in Tarbiyyati Halqahs, therefore, do attend Tarbiyyati Halqahs to know about these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 16 August 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunan and manners of Qurbani

٭ Do not cut so much that the knife reaches the neck joint, causing unnecessary suffering to the animal.

٭ Unless the sacrificed animal becomes completely dead (and its body parts become motionless), neither cut its feet nor skin it.

٭ Do not even touch the knife and your hand to its cut throat unless its soul has left its body.

٭ In order to quicken the death of the cow, some butchers take off the neck-skin of a writhing cow, stab into its chest and cut the veins of its heart.

٭ Similarly, some people break the neck of the goat right after slaughtering it.

٭ Animals cannot express their sufferings; they should not be oppressed in any way.

٭ If possible, it is necessary to prevent those harming animals unlawfully.

٭ If one does not prevent such oppression despite being able to do so, then he will be a sinner and deserve Hell.

٭ It is stated on page 259 of Bahar-e-Shari’at, volume 16, ‘Oppressing an animal is worse than oppressing a Zimmi unbeliever (now all the unbelievers are Harbi) and oppressing a Zimmi unbeliever is worse than oppressing even a Muslim as no one is the guardian of the animal except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; who else will protect the ill-treated animal from oppression!’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 662)

٭ Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Feed fodder and water to the animal before the slaughter. Do not slaughter it when it is hungry or thirsty. Do not slaughter one animal in front of the other and sharpen the knife in advance. Let it not be that you sharpen the knife after you have made the animal lie down. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 352)

Du’a of slaughtering an animal

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for “ slaughtering an animal ” will be memorised as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اِنِّیْ وَجَّهْتُ وَجْهِیَ لِلَّذِیْ فَطَرَ السَّمٰوٰتِ وَ الْاَرْضَ حَنِیْفًا وَّ مَاۤ اَنَا مِنَ الْمُشْرِكِیْنَۚ(۷۹) [1] اِنَّ صَلَاتِیْ وَ نُسُكِیْ وَ مَحْیَایَ وَ مَمَاتِیْ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَۙ(۱۶۲) لَا شَرِیْكَ لَهٗۚ-وَ بِذٰلِكَ اُمِرْتُ وَ اَنَا اَوَّلُ الْمُسْلِمِیْنَ(۱۶۳) [2]

Translation: I directed my face towards the One Who has created the heavens and the earth; I am devoted solely to Him, and I am not of the polytheists. Undoubtedly my Salah, and my sacrifices, and my living and my passing away are all for Allah Who is Lord of all the worlds. He has no partner; this is what I have been commanded, and I (Muhammad) am the first Muslim [3] .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

-1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

-2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

-3 Inquired after an ill person?

-4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

-5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

-6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

-7 Sent a letter?

-8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

