اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessed Character and Sayings of Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

It is stated in blessed Tirmizi, a famous book of blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً ‘One who will recite Durood more than everyone on me will be closest to me amongst people on the Judgement Day.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Regarding this blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The one who will be with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be the most comfortable on the Judgement Day and the source of attaining the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to recite Durood abundantly. From this it has become obvious that reciting Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best virtue as all virtuous deeds will lead to Paradise, but this virtue will lead to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّ م has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In today’s Bayan, we are going to listen to a few attributes of the excellent character of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his blessed sayings. Let’s first of all listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

How is my beloved?

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: In the beginning of Islam, when the number of blessed companions rose to 38, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ requested permission from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to preach the message of Islam openly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O Abu Bakr! We are now less in number. But Sayyiduna Abu Bakr continued to request and finally he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted him permission to preach Islam. Muslims spread in the surrounding areas of Masjid-ul-Haraam. Everyone started inviting their family to Islam.

When Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ stood up to invite people to Islam, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also sitting there. When polytheists of Makkah saw Muslims inviting people to embrace Islam openly, they became furious and started beating Muslims. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also beaten unconscious. When the people of his tribe [Banu Taym (تَیْم)] learnt about it they came running and took him to his home. His father Abu Qahafah and the people of Banu Taym were very worried. They were constantly trying to talk to him. Finally, in the last part of the day, he regained consciousness. When they inquired after him, the first sentence he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spoke was, ‘How is the Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)?’ Upon hearing this, many people of his tribe got angry and left.

When the respected mother of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar, Umm-ul- Khayr Salma would ask him to eat something, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would only speak one

sentence: ‘How is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ Tell me only about him. Having seen this condition his mother told: By Allah Almighty! I do not know how your friend is. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘Please go to Umm-e-Jameel the daughter of Khattab and ask her how the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is’. His mother went to Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and asked: ‘My son Abu Bakr is asking you about his friend Muhammad Bin ‘Abdullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . How is he?’ Instead of replying to this question Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘If you want I can go with you to your son.’ Then both went to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked the same question: How is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’? Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is safe and quite well. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked: Where is he now? She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied: He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is sitting at Dar-ul-Arqam. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will not eat or drink anything until I myself see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Anyhow when everyone had gone, his mother and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, the daughter of Khattab, took him to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw his true devotee, tears welled up in his eyes and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stepped forward, embraced him and started kissing him.

Having seen this, all the Muslims also moved towards him. When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became emotional. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my mother and father be sacrificed for you! I am alright; only my face has been wounded a little.’ The day he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was made to experience suffering, on the very same day, his blessed mother Sayyidatuna Umm-ul-Khayr Salma and Sayyiduna Ameer Hamzah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا also embraced Islam. (Tareekh Madinah Dimashq, vol. 30 pp. 49)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, filled with the deep devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, endured severe hardships for preaching Islam. This great preacher of Islam sacrificed

everything for the sake of the devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Despite experiencing immense sufferings and troubles, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not worry about himself, but kept remembering the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and was impatient to know about his condition.

Just ponder! This was the state of the deep love and devotion of true loyal companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Now let’s ponder over the fact as to how we love our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Do we also have the enthusiasm for sacrificing our lives for the sake of Islam? Blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی never hesitated to sacrifice their lives and wealth, but unfortunately we even do not sacrifice our time. Remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ helps those who help Islam. In Ayah 40 of Surah Al-Hajj, it is stated:

وَ لَیَنْصُرَنَّ اللّٰهُ مَنْ یَّنْصُرُهٗؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And undoubtedly, Allah will necessarily help him who will help His religion. (Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 40)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will help the one who will help His religion. Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: It is upon the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He helps the one who helps Him (His religion). (Tafseer Ad-Durr-ul- Mansoor, vol. 7, pp. 462)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: To serve a Nabi, spread Islamic knowledge all are the help for the religion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 537)

Therefore, with the intention of seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should develop the passion for propagating the message of Islam. There are people who help the religion of Allah Almighty. How are they helped? Who helps them? What kind of steadfastness are they blessed with? Let’s listen. In Ayah 7 of Surah Muhammad, part 26 it is stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِنْ تَنْصُرُوا اللّٰهَ یَنْصُرْكُمْ وَ یُثَبِّتْ اَقْدَامَكُمْ(۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! If you help the religion of Allah, He will help you and will stabilise you. (Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 7)

Pious predecessors have been making these Du’as for centuries. Imam of Ahl-us- Sunnah Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also included the following Du’a in ‘ Khutbat-e-Razawiyyah’ . Here is the Du’a:

اَللّٰھُمَّ انْصُرْ مَنْ نَّصَرَ دِیْنَ سَیِّدِنَا وَمَوْلٰـنَا مُحَمَّد

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Help those who help the religion of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . O the lovers of Islam! Undoubtedly, when someone gets Divine help, she succeeds in both the worlds. By the help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, big troubles go away and we remain unaware of it. There is something more after the Du’a:

وَاخْذُلْ مَنْ خَذَلَ دِیْنَ سَیِّدِنَا وَمَوْلٰـنَا مُحَمَّد

O Allah Almighty! Do not help the one also who does not help the religion of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic sisters! It is a matter of having fear. If Allah Almighty does not help a person, then surely she will not succeed. Every one of us should ponder whether we are being blessed with Du’a or curse! Every such deed is considered to be a help for the religion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that spreads Islam, makes non-Muslims embrace Islam and reforms spoiled Muslims. So do your best to promote the call towards righteousness. Attend Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat (congregations) yourselves and also persuade other Islamic sisters. Learn Sunnahs yourselves and also teach them to others. Thus get the news of Divine help by helping Islam a lot as Allah Almighty has made this promise: In Ayah 7 of Surah Muhammad, part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِنْ تَنْصُرُوا اللّٰهَ یَنْصُرْكُمْ وَ یُثَبِّتْ اَقْدَامَكُمْ(۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! If you help the religion of Allah, He will help you and will stabilise you. (Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 7)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Brief introduction to Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the introduction of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ before we know more about his life history. The blessed name of the first caliph of Islam, the leader of believers, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is ‘Abdullah’. His Kunyah is ‘Abu Bakr’ and his titles are ‘Siddeeq’ and ‘Ateeq’. The meaning of ‘Siddeeq’ is ‘ One who speaks the truth very much ’. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was famous by this title even in the era of ignorance because he would always speak the truth. The meaning of ‘Ateeq’ is ‘ free ’. Giving him good news, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَنْتَ عَتِیْقُ اللہِ مِنَ النَّارِ ’ i.e. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you are free from the fire of Hell .’ That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was given this title. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 19) He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is ‘Qurayshi’, and seven generations above, his genealogical tree joins with that of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was born in Makkah Mukarramah, approximately two and a half years after ‘Aam-ul-Feel’ (Year of the Elephant i.e. the year when accursed King Abrahah attacked sacred Ka’bah with the army of elephants). The leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is the companion who was the first to testify to the Risalat [Prophethood] of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was such a great personage that after honourable Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, he is the most superior and the greatest of all mankind. Amongst all free men, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was the first to embrace Islam and proved his loyalty by supporting the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the whole life. After a splendid reign of caliphate that lasted two years and seven months, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away on 22 nd

Jumadal Ukhra, 13 th Hijri, after spending the day of Monday. The leader of believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ led the funeral Salah and Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was laid to rest beside the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 62, 27, 81)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Most abstinent

Dear Islamic sisters! At one place in the Holy Quran, Allah Almighty has called Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ most pious .

وَ سَیُجَنَّبُهَا الْاَتْقَىۙ(۱۷)

And he (i.e. Abu Bakr Siddeeq) will be kept far away from it (Hell) who is most pious.

(Part 30, Surah Al-Layl, Ayah 17)

The [ اَتْقٰی ] ‘ most pious ’ as mentioned in this blessed Ayah refers to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had such a great status in the Merciful Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that many blessed Ayahs have been revealed about him. Similarly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had very high status in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Blessed status of Siddeeq-e-Akbar in the court of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that blessed companions humbly asked: Amongst people who do you love the most? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Aaishah.’ They again humbly asked, ‘Who is from amongst men?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The father of ‘Aaishah.’ (i.e., Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .) (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 126, Hadees 4358)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said: I saw that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was standing with Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, and in the meantime Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stepped forward and shook hands with him, hugged him and then kissed on his face and said to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: O Abu Al-Hassan! To me Abu Bakr has the same status which I have in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 185)

Warm welcome to Siddeeq-e-Akbar in Paradise

Similarly, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘One such person will enter Paradise that all the dwellers of Paradise will address him by saying loudly: Welcome! Welcome! Come here! Come here!’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked in astonishment: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Will we be able to see him as well?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘O Abu Bakr! You are that dweller of Paradise.’ (Sahih Ibn Habbaan, pp. 7, Hadees 6828)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is such a fortunate companion that after blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, he has been declared to be the most superior person amongst all people. Moreover, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave him the good news of Paradise.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has also enjoyed the privilege of being with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life. His greatness can be observed by the fact that even in the skies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned his name with the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘I was given the tour of the skies. Thus, every sky I visited, I found my name written over there and after my [name], [I] also found the name of Abu Bakr written.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 9, pp. 19, Hadees 14296) Therefore, we should also have great love and devotion to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ so that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers His mercy on us for the sake of His beloved.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Passion for well-wishing

Dear Islamic sisters! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with outstanding qualities and pure character. Let’s listen to some of his blessed character traits. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had great passion to do good to people. That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would show great kindness and mercy to the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم who were being oppressed because of embracing Islam. For the Muslims who were treated cruelly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not only have the feelings of sympathy in his heart, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also try his best to bring salvation to them. He would not be reluctant even to spend money for this great cause. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard.

Freedom of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, a famous and dear companion of Rasoolullah, was a true believer and was a pious slave. His master Umayyah Bin Khalaf would take him out of Makkah in the scorching heat of the sun and would make him lie flat on his back on the burning sand, placing a big stone on his chest and would then say: ‘Deny (the religion of) Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), worship our gods or else you will die in the same state.’ Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would only give the following reply: ‘ اَحَد اَحَد ’ (i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is One, He has no partner).’ (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 133-134)

One day, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by the place where Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was being treated cruelly. Rebuking Umayyah Bin Khalaf, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Don’t you fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ while treating this poor person cruelly? How long will you continue to do it?’ He said: ‘Abu Bakr! You have spoiled (i.e. converted him to Islam) him, so [now] you bring him freedom as well.’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘I have a slave healthier and stronger than Bilal; give me Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in exchange for that slave.’ He replied: ‘I agree!’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in exchange for the slave and some money and freed him. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ freed six more such slaves. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 134)

It has also been narrated that Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for 5 Awqiyah (about 32 Tola) gold, so the seller said: ‘Abu Bakr! If you had stuck to only one Awqiyah of gold, I would have sold him even for that amount.’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ responded: ‘If you had demanded 100 Awqiyah of gold, I would have even paid that and would have definitely bought Sayyiduna Bilal.’

(Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 134)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the above-mentioned parable it has been learnt that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very kind to Muslims. He could not see any Mu’min in difficulty and would prefer his wealth to his life. That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought seven slaves including Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and set them free. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was not only pious, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also take the lead in performing virtuous deeds.

Financial sacrifice by Sayyiduna Abu Bakr

On the occasion of the Battle of Tabook, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم commanded the wealthy people of his Ummah to give financial donations generously in the path of Allah Almighty so that arrangements could be made for the food and riding animals of those who were fighting for the sake of Islam. Obeying this commandment of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed personality who brought his entire wealth to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to give it in the path of Allah Almighty was a blessed companion, a great devotee of Rasool, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He placed all his wealth and possessions at the feet of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Seeing this great sacrifice made by his closest companion, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Have you left anything for your family as well?’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied with utmost respect: ‘ اَبْقَيْتُ لَهُمُ اللهَ وَرَسُوْلَهُ ’ i.e. I have left them at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 5, pp. 435) His statement can simply be interpreted as: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are sufficient for me and my family.

I am pleased with my Rab!

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said: I was present in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; there I saw Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wearing a dress which had thorns in place of buttons. In the meantime, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Why is Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wearing such a dress today? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: O Jibra’eel! He has sacrificed his entire wealth for me before the Conquest of Makkah. Jibra’eel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly said: Allah Almighty sends Salam to you and says: Ask him if he is pleased or displeased with Allah Almighty. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Abu Bakr! Allah Almighty has sent Salam to you and said: Are you pleased with Me or not? Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘How can I be displeased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ!’ I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tareekh-e-Madinah Dimashq, vol. 30, pp. 71)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From this narration we have understood that Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ not only had a great status in the court of Allah Almighty, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also had a great passion for sacrificing wealth in the path of Allah Almighty. Surely spending wealth in the path of Allah Almighty has many virtues. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The Muslim who clothes any Muslim who does not have clothes, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the dress of Paradise; and he who feeds any hungry Muslim, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him eat the fruit of Paradise; and he who makes any thirsty Muslim drink water, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him drink sealed pure wine.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 180, Hadees 1682)

‘Madani Daurah’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Clothing the Muslims who do not have clothes, providing food to the hungry and giving water to the thirsty to drink are excellent virtuous deeds. Let’s make intention that we will also help the

poor, give food to the hungry and water to thirsty Islamic sisters, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, Islamic sisters are motivated to perform countless such virtuous deeds. Therefore, from today or rather right now associate yourself with this Madani environment and take part practically in 8 Madani activities to spread the call towards righteousness.

Remember! One of the eight Madani activities is ‘Madani Daurah’ (Madani visit), through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their houses. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani Daurah’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least an elderly woman) should make ‘Madani Daurah’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). To propagate “Call towards righteousness” is such an important noble cause that all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and even our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been sent in the world for this blessed purpose. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this Madani activity derives many benefits of the world and the Hereafter:

٭ By the blessing of ‘Madani Daurah’, one gets privilege of acting upon the blessed Sunnah of the Last Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ By the blessing of ‘Madani Daurah’, one gets opportunities to meet Islamic sisters and saying Salam to them.

٭ By the blessing of ‘Madani Daurah’, the Madani pearls enriched with Islamic knowledge and call towards righteousness are preached amongst Ummah.

٭ ‘Madani Daurah’ facilitates to make a non-Salah offering person achieve punctuality in offering Salah.

٭ By the blessing of ‘Madani Daurah’, Dawat-e-Islami gets famous

Therefore, you are also requested to actively participate in the Madani activities and keep associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister from Punjab (Pakistan) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being angry and peevish. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The communication of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attain the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the sounds/voices of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

Manner of inviting towards Islam

Dear Islamic sisters! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the fortunate companion who was the first amongst men to embrace Islam. A famous biographer Sayyiduna Ibn Ishaaq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has

stated: Just after embracing Islam, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ openly declared it and also started inviting [people] to it. Since he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very soft-hearted amongst his nation, he would share in their sorrow, and was everyone’s favourite personality, he was fully aware of the status and nobility of the lineage of Quraysh and their every good and evil. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also a famous and well-mannered trader. All the prominent personalities and common people of Quraysh would come to him due to his virtues in knowledge and business, and his good company. They would benefit from his blessed company. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would make an individual effort on them, tell them the virtues of Islam and would invite them to embrace Islam. In this way, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also motivated many people, who visited him, to embrace Islam by making individual efforts on them. (Ar-Riyad-un- Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 91)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 11 of his 32-page booklet ‘ Buddha Pujari ’ [The Aged (Idol) Worshipper]: Through his individual efforts, the five blessed individuals embraced Islam who are amongst the ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah. (Remember! The ten blessed companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who were given the good news of being Jannati in the world are called ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah’). (Bunyadi ‘Aqaaid aur Ma’mulaat-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, pp. 76)

Their blessed names are as follows:

1. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

2. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

3. Sayyiduna Talhah Bin ‘Ubaydullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

4. Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Awf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

5. Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Construction of Masjid in the house

Dear Islamic sisters! In the early days of Islam, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ constructed a Masjid in the courtyard of his home where he would recite the Holy Quran and offer Salah. Seeing him deeply engrossed in the acts of worship, people would gather around him. His recitation of the Holy Quran, his worship, weeping out of Divine fear would really impress people. Many people also embraced Islam by virtue of these acts of his. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 92)

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: When my respectable father would recite the Holy Quran, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not have any control on his tears, that is, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep bitterly. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 493, Hadees 806)

Weeping during recitation is an act of reward

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep uncontrollably while reciting the Holy Quran despite the fact that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had already given him the good news of being Jannati in the world. Even then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should also weep while reciting the Holy Quran and if we are unable to do so, we should at least make a weeping face because weeping while reciting the Holy Quran is an excellent deed. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Weep while reciting the Holy Quran and if you are unable to weep, make a weeping face.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 129, Hadees 1337)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Siyam in summer

Dear Islamic sisters! In addition to worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also observe Siyam [fasts] abundantly. It is stated about him that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would observe [Nafl] Siyam in summer and would not observe them in winter. Surely it was

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr’s yearning for worship that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep while reciting the Holy Quran and would observe Nafl Siyam in addition to Fard Siyam in summer. Today if we ponder over our condition, we find that we observe Fard [obligatory] Siyam with great difficulty even in winter though in winter, days are very short and nights are very long and one feels less thirsty during the day. Whereas, in summer, usually days are very long and nights are very short and one feels intense thirst during the day.

Surely the heat of this world is nothing as compared to the heat of the Hereafter because on the Day of Judgment when the sun will be shining at a distance of only 1.25 miles, people will be very thirsty and will be drenched in their own sweat, it will surely not be possible for us to bear the heat of that time. Therefore for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we should try to perform good deeds in the world. We should please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We have to perform virtuous deeds abundantly in this world in order to attain the shade of the ‘Arsh by the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Judgement Day. In order to have this Madani mind-set, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and participate practically to accumulate virtues for the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madani Muzakarah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is propagating Sunnah all over the world in approximately 107 departments for serving Islam. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has started a question-answer program to act upon the saying ‘ knowledge is a collection of countless treasures and a question is a source of acquiring them ’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, it is called ‘Madani Muzakarah’. Devotees of Rasool attend ‘Madani Muzakarahs’ during which they ask different questions about beliefs and deeds, virtues,

Manaqib, Shari’ah and Tareeqah, history and biography, science and medicine, morality and Islamic information, economic, social and organizational matters and many other topics. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه answers them with full of wisdom and enriched in the love of the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’, efforts are being made to present these Madani Muzakarahs in the form of booklets, VCDs and memory cards with the passion for conveying these interesting Madani pearls, full of knowledge and wisdom given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, to the Muslims all over the world.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Another blessed aspect of the blessed life of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very soft-hearted for neighbours.

Do not quarrel with neighbours

Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman Bin Qaasim رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated from his father: Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman Bin Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا who was scolding his neighbour. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to him: Do not quarrel with your neighbour because he will remain here, but the people who will see your quarrel will go away from here. (Kanz-ul-Ummal, vol. 5, pp. 79, Hadees 25599)

Rights of neighbours

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented the call towards righteousness with graceful manners to the one who was quarrelling with his neighbour we can derive many Madani pearls from it. Of course, when two neighbours quarrel with each other about something, they suffer loss themselves because even after the quarrel they have to live together and their quarrel becomes a fun for others.

Remember! Islam lays great emphasis on the rights of neighbour as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘I advise you to treat your neighbours well.’ Then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned so many rights of neighbours that it seemed that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give him a share in inheritance.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 111, Hadees 7523)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the privilege to take great care of our neighbour Islamic sisters!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayings of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ reformed the people not only through his character, but he also guided the Ummah by presenting the call towards righteousness through his admonitory sayings.

Sayyiduna Raafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I was present in the court of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . I humbly said: Please advise me. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said twice: ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you and grant you blessing (then said:)

1. Offer Fard Salahs on time.

2. Pay Zakah happily.

3. Observe the Siyam of Ramadan.

4. Perform Hajj of Baytullah and

5. Never become a ruler.

I humbly asked: O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! Nowadays, the rulers are the best people of Ummah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: Nowadays, governance is easy but I fear that in the future due to the excess of victories, there will be many

governments, and thus it is likely that incompetent rulers will emerge. On the Day of Judgement, the accountability of a ruler will be longer and [he will suffer] more torment, whereas non-ruler’s accountability will be lesser and [he will suffer] light torment, because it is the ruler who inflicts more cruelty and a cruel ruler breaks the promise that he gives to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Amongst these rulers, some (those who serve justice) are pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and some, (because of cruelty) are driven away from the Divine court. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! When any of you seizes neighbour’s nanny goat or camel, he becomes very happy that he has seized neighbour’s nanny goat or camel, whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will punish them definitely. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 51, Hadees 7472, Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 253)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam

Dear Islamic sisters! The Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam continues especially through the followers of Madani In’amaat in Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about the Nafl Siyam.

Few Madani Pearls about Nafl Siyam

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: If someone keeps a Nafl Sawm one day and he is given the whole earth full of gold as a reward, even then, his reward will not be complete, he will be given his reward only on the Day of Judgement. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 353, Hadees 6104)

Organizational grading for Sawm-observing Islamic sisters

٭ Excellent: The one who observes ‘Sawm-e-Dawoodi’, that is, observes a Sawm every alternate day, or at least 15 Siyam in a month at her convenience or observes Siyam throughout the year except for the five prohibited days (It is Makruh Tahreemi to observe a Sawm on Eid-ul-Fitr, and 10, 11, 12, 13 th of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam). (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 391)

٭ Better: One who observes Sawm every blessed Monday and Thursday will be considered to be ‘better’. (Observing Siyam on Monday and Thursday is a Sunnah. However, one observing seven Siyam in a Madani month at her convenience will also be organizationally considered to be ‘better’.)

٭ Average: One who observes Sawm every blessed Monday or due to some compulsion, on any other day will be considered to be average. (In this way, she will observe four or five Siyam in a month.)

٭ Remember! If a Nafl Sawm is deliberately observed, it will become Wajib to complete it. If one breaks it, its Qada will become Wajib.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 473)

٭ If parents forbid their son from observing a Nafl Sawm for fear of illness, the son should obey his parents. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 478)

٭ A wife cannot observe a Nafl Sawm without the permission of her husband. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 477)

Note

The Islamic sisters who wish to join the Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam should contact Majlis Madani In’amaat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

Madani pearls about shaking hands

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to some Madani pearls about shaking hands from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ When two Islamic sisters meet, it is Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam.

٭ While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Durood:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you.

٭ While shaking hands, whatever Du’a is asked, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be fulfilled; both will be forgiven before separating hands.

٭ Shaking hands eliminates enmity.

٭ The Sunnah of shaking hands is that both the palms are empty, having no handkerchief in the hand and the palm should touch the palm. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, vol. 3, pp. 98)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

