اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Sayings of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحۡ ـ مَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Azeez Dabbaagh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is beyond any doubt that reciting Salat upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most superior action of all the acts of worship. This is a Zikr of those blessed angels who dwell in the surroundings of Jannah and when they recite Salat upon the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, by the blessings of this, Jannah becomes spacious. (Al-Abreez, vol. 2, pp. 338)

یانبی! تجھ پہ لاکھوں دُرُوْد و سلام، اس پہ ہے ناز مجھ کو ہوں تیرا غُلام

اپنی رحمت سے تُو شاہِ خَیْرُالاَنام، مجھ سے عاصی کا بھی ناز بَردار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Intentions of delivering the Bayan

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today is the 11 th night of the month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir which has a specific relation to Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhiyyuddin Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ During today’s sacred and auspicious night, we will have the privilege of collecting some Madani pearls from the Zikr (discussion) of Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . For a long time, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ through his sayings, compositions and Bayanaat kept saving people from immorality and guided them to the right path. His Majlis was a treasure of preaching and pieces of advice and a ladder of guidance for those who deviated from Islam. All these were the special favours of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Let’s listen to an interesting parable regarding this.

Blessing of Rasool’s saliva

It has been narrated that whilst sitting in a chair, Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was saying: I had a blessed sight of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Son! Why don’t you deliver Bayan? I humbly said: O my maternal grandfather صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I am a non-Arab man; How should I deliver Bayan in front of those who speak well in Baghdad? The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told me: Son! Open your mouth! I opened my mouth, then the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his blessed saliva 7 times into my mouth and told me: Deliver Bayan before the people and call them with good logic and with advice to their Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I then offered Zuhr Salah and sat. Many people came to me and shouted at me. Thereafter, I was blessed with the view of Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Son! Why don’t you deliver Bayan? I humbly said: O my father! People shout at me. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Open your mouth! I opened my mouth, then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ put saliva 6 times into my mouth. I humbly said: why didn’t you put 7 times? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Due to the respect for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He then disappeared from my sight. (Bahjah-tul-Israar, pp. 58, Az Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat, pp. 33)

After this incident, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ delivered his Bayan first time in the month of Shawal-ul-Mukarram 521 A.H. during a grand Ijtima which was in full splendour and awe. Saints and angels covered him;

explaining the Holy Quran and Sunnah he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ called people towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and then everybody hurried to obey him. (Bahjah-tul-Israar, pp. 174)

لُعاب اپنا چٹایا احمدِ مُختار نے ان کو توپھر کیسے نہ ہوتابول بالاغوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

First Speech of our blessed Ghaus-e-Pak!

Dear Islamic brothers! Having been persuaded by the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم and benefitting from the blessed saliva, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ attracted people by his first speech and then a large number of people started attaining blessings from his blessed company. People from all walks of life would attend his gatherings; Islamic scholars and Jurists would all gather. His sermon was such that 400 hundred people with pens and inkpots used to attend to write his sayings.’ (Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 12)

مُحَرِّر چار سو مجلس میں حاضرہوکےلکھتےتھے ہوا کرتا تھا جو اِرشادِ والاغوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The valuable pieces of advice of Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to reflect fear and hope, patience and pleasure, abstinence and piety and fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; through speeches and advices he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would deliver the lessons of love and brotherhood; attract people’s attention to the hereafter, he would deliver Dars to be safe from all internal diseases including the desire for high respect and possessions, hypocrisy, ostentation, hatred and malice. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also persuaded people to not get attached to this world, to have strong faith, the importance of righteous deeds and have perfect manners. His blessed sayings would be from his heart entering the hearts of

his listeners. Shaykh Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There was not a single gathering of Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in which non-Muslims would not be blessed with the treasure of faith by him; disobedient people, robbers, people gone astray, people of corrupt beliefs would repent on his hands. When more than 500 non-Muslims and hundreds of thousands of sinful people had repented before him and abstained from committing evil deeds then what can be said for others? (Every one used to gain benefit from his blessed sayings.) (Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 13) اَمْرٌ بِالْمَعْرُوْف وَ نَہْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر i.e. With regards to enjoining good and forbidding evil, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was not concerned about the authorities and would even present the call towards righteousness to the caliphs, ministers, kings and everybody else. Sayyiduna Imam Shamsuddin Muhammad Bin Ahmad Zahbi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would declare Haq on his pulpit and anyone who would make a tyrant rule over people, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would object to him.

(Tareekh-ul-Islam, pp. 39-99)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent 33 years of his blessed life in Dars and teaching and writing Fataawa, while for 40 years he delivered the Madani pearls of his speeches and pieces of advice and at the age of 90 in 561 H. he passed away.

(Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 9)

سلاطینِ جہاں کیونکر نہ اُن کے رُعب سے کانپیں نہ لایا شیر کو خطرے میں کُتّا غوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Useful cartridge

Dear Islamic brothers! As the crown of our heads, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ practiced what he preached, therefore, his words of calling towards righteousness entered the hearts of the people, transforming the world of their hearts. Remember! If a bullet is fired by the best gun, then even a lion can be killed by it. The words of our presenting the call towards

righteousness are like bullets and our role is like the role of a gun. If one who practices on what he says, calls towards righteousness and forbids from evils then his words will be effective, therefore in order to make words effective, we must rectify ourselves practically as well. About the advice which is not acted upon by the adviser himself, Huzoor Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Advising others without practicing yourself is of no importance. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 78) Furthermore, he has stated: The act of not acting upon yourself and advising others is like a house without a door, having no necessary things and is such a treasure, out of which nothing should be spent and is like such a claim, for which there is no witness. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 78)

Dear Islamic brothers! If a physician has the best medicines for every disease and the people make use of it, but when the physician himself suffers from the disease, he grows lazy and eventually loses his life, he will certainly be called foolish. In the same way, the people who advise others to avoid sins and perform virtuous deeds, but they do not make efforts to act upon their own pieces of advice, they are completely in loss.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Some dwellers of Heaven will go towards the dwellers of Hell and ask them, for what reason were you sent to Hell? Although, By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We have entered Heaven as a result of your teachings, then they will reply, whatever we used to advise, we would not act upon it ourselves.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 22, pp. 150, Hadees 405)

عمل کا ہو جذبہ عطا یا اِلٰہی گناہوں سے مجھ کو بچا یا اِلٰہی

عبادت میں گزرے مِری زِندگانی

کرم ہو کرم یا خدا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The one imparting knowledge to others and forgetting himself is like a lamp (candle) which provides people with light whereas it burns itself.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 2, pp. 166, Hadees 1681)

Dear Islamic brothers! What bigger loss is there for the preacher who does not practice will be than the fact that the people listening to his speeches will get the eternal blessings of Heaven, whereas he will be deserving the torment of Hell for not acting upon his knowledge. Therefore, every preacher and religious personalities should continue to endeavour to act upon their knowledge for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and call others to righteousness instead of pretending to be pious in the eyes of the people.

سُنّتوں کی کروں خوب خدمت

ہر کسی کو دُوں نیکی کی دعوت

نیک میں بھی بنوں اِلْتِجا ہے

یاخدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Real enemy of a human!

Dear Islamic brothers! Nafs and Satan are the real enemies of humans. The Nafs is more dangerous than Satan, because this was the same Nafs that destroyed the faith of Satan making him deserving eternal disgrace. Hujjah-tul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, "Nafs has several meanings: (One of them is) Nafs is something that stimulates the lust and anger in humans. Sufiya-e-Kiraam often use this word, because in their opinion, the Nafs is the power that develops negative traits in humans. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 5)

Undoubtedly, one who follows his Nafs, it will destroy him. Talking about the method of protection from the destruction of the Nafs, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Nafs only suggests evils; it is in its nature; it will be reformed after a long period of time; it is compulsory for you to oppose your

Nafs all the time! (i.e. get ready to oppose it.) (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 43 Majlis, 139) At another place he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Always keep saying to your Nafs that your righteous earnings will benefit you and your bad earnings will prove to be a curse for you; no other person will perform deeds with you nor will give you anything out of his deeds. (O bondsman, remember!) Keep performing righteous deeds and it is necessary to oppose your Nafs; one who prevents you from evil is your friend and one who misguides you is your enemy. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, 43 Majlis, pp. 140) he further said: As long as the Nafs is not free from impurity and bad desires, how could it get the closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Terminate the desires and hopes of your Nafs, only then will your Nafs obey you. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, Majlis 43, pp. 140)

Dear Islamic brothers! No doubt, listening to Nafs and remaining heedless of fighting against it is a complete unwise act. Therefore, it is compulsory for us to fight against the Nafs, try to control it, reduce its desires i.e. to keep pleasure away from it, to attract it to acts of worship more and more. Furthermore, for the protection against its disasters and mischiefs, keep making Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as well. Surely, it is also wise to fight against an enemy by considering it/him an enemy, rather than being heedless of him/it. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Wise is he who makes his Nafs subservient to him and performs deeds for post-death and unwise is he who acts upon his desires and also hopes for the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 207, Hadees 246)

اللّٰہ اللّٰہ کے نبی سے

فریاد ہے نَفْس کی بَدی سے

اِیمان پہ مَوت بہتر او نَفْس!

تیری ناپاک زِندگی سے

گہرے پیارے پُرانے دِل سوز

گُزرا میں تیری دوستی سے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Advantages of the blessed company of Saints

Dear Islamic brothers! One reason for not being able to control the Nafs is not to recognize how it traps us and uses/plays its tricks. Due to having no knowledge of this, a person falls prey to it. In order to recognize the tricks and deceptions of the Nafs, be in the company of the beloved and the righteous people of Allah.

Pointing towards the same thing, Huzoor Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: مَنْ اَکْثَرَ مِنْ مُّخَالَـطَۃِ الْعَارِفِیْنَ بِاللہِ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ عَـرَفَ نَفْسَہٗ, i.e. One who has the company of the bondsmen (Saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) who have the Ma’rifat of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he then recognizes his Nafs. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 180)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further said: Undoubtedly, it is one of the attributes of the saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that when they look at a person and focus their attention to him (his heart) then his faith, belief and steadfastness further increase.

(Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 219 summarized)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that by the blessings of being in the company of the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the world of hearts transforms. Nowadays a means of attaining good company is association with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Being associated with the Madani environment we should attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, weekly Madani Muzakarahs seen collectively and participate in other Madani activities to gather the enthusiasm for protecting ourselves from sins and performing good deeds. In addition to these things, we should also travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month. Through its blessings, one will be blessed with the company of lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he will get into the habit of acting upon the Madani In’amaat, because one moment’s company of the righteous people transforms the lives of great sinners. It has been narrated that once having paid his visit to sacred Madinah, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was heading towards the blessed Baghdad barefooted. On the way, a thief was standing, waiting for a traveller so that he could rob him; when Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

got close to him he asked: who are you? The thief replied: a villager, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ by means of Kashf (Divine inspiration) had seen his sin and wickedness. A thought entered the thief’s mind, ‘Perhaps he is Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also became aware of the thought that entered his mind, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: I am Abdul Qaadir. Having heard this, he immediately fell upon his blessed feet and started saying یَا سَیِّدِیْ عَبْدَالْقَادِرِشَیْئًالِلہِ (i.e. O my master Abdul Qaadir! Have mercy on my condition.)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had mercy on his state and made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for his reformation, a voice was then heard from the unseen: ‘O Ghaus-e-A’zam! Show this thief the right path and by guiding him, make him a Qutb.’ With the blessed sight of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, that person received the status of Qutbiyyat. (Seerat-e-Ghaus-us-Saqlayn, pp. 130, Az Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat: 38)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! By only one blessed sight of Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ the determination of the thief and the pollution of his heart was all washed away and he was made the Qutb of that time by Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak. It has become obvious that It is not a big deal for saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to wash the dirt of our sins and the rust of our hearts when their blessed sight can turn a thief into a Qutb. Therefore, we should be in the company of saints. Talking about the advantages of their closeness and devotion, Ahmad Bin Harb رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Having love for righteous people, being in their company and acting upon their actions and sayings after observing them are the most beneficial actions for a human heart.

(Tanbeeh-ul-Mughtareen, Al-Bab-ul-Awwal, pp. 41)

گناہوں کے امراض سے نِیم جاں ہوں

پئے مُرشِدی دے شِفا یاالٰہی

بنادے مجھے نیک نیکوں کا صَدْقہ

گُناہوں سے ہر دَم بچا یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Ponder over the Hereafter!

Dear Islamic brothers! Be in the company of righteous people, avoid sins, perform more and more virtuous deeds, turn away from the mortal beauty of the world and ponder over the hereafter by engaging yourself in its preparation. Remember! The world is like a path which we must travel to reach our destination; now that destination is Paradise or Hell depending on how we have travelled this way. Do we travel it in obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم or in their disobedience. Unfortunate are those who by seeing the attractions of this world suffer its deception and become totally heedless of their death.

Making (people) wake up to this fact, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: O bondsman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! End your hopes! Overcome your greed! And offer Salah as you are about to depart from this world (i.e. offer every Salah considering it to be your last). Remember, it is not appropriate for a believer that he sleeps in the state that his written will is not kept underneath the head of his bed. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 220) i.e. Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is making us wake up to the fact that death may come anytime, therefore a person should consider every day as his last day, every Salah his last Salah and every sleep his last sleep. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further said: O man, your eating and drinking, living with your family, meeting with your friends, should be like the one who is about to leave this world, because the person whose life and affairs are all controlled by someone else should live in this world like this. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 220) Giving a warning to those people who are heedless of the Hereafter, Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: (O ignorant human!) Ponder for a while! When nothing can be achieved in this mortal world without hard work (i.e. for the mortal blessings of this world one has to work hard), then the thing that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has (and that will always exist), how is it possible to get it without any hard work? (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 222)

Dear Islamic brothers! Huzoor Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is persuading us to get rid of the mortal beauty of this world and to make our minds for preparation of the grave and the Hereafter. Surely a wise person prepares for his death before it arrives, he accumulates the treasure of good deeds and is buried a with Madani lamp of the Sunnah which brightens his grave, otherwise the

grave will not care for anyone buried in it, whether the person is rich or poor, a minister or his adviser, a ruler or the one being ruled, officer or subordinate, employer or employee, doctor or patient, contractor or labourer, in short, is anyone lacks good deeds for the Hereafter, misses Salahs deliberately, does not observe fast in the month of Ramadan without any Shar’i reason, does not give Zakat despite it being Fard for him, does not perform Haj despite it being Fard for him, does not impose veiling despite having the power to do so, disobeys his parents, has the habit of speaking lies, backbites, tale-telling, keeps watching films and dramas, listening to songs and music, getting his beard cut or trims it to less than a fist, in short, keeps committing many sins, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be displeased with him and he will receive nothing but embarrassment.

Fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!

Dear Islamic brothers! No Muslim can deny that every person has to account for his deeds before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after living this brief life. Thereafter if we succeed in obtaining the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be blessed with the great blessings of Paradise or مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Due to our sins, we may be given the horrible punishments of Hell. Therefore it is certainly an unwise act to become heedless of accountability in the Hereafter due to being lost in the beauty, pleasures and elegance of this worldly life. Remember! Salvation can be achieved if we act upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and we accumulate virtues and avoid committing sins. For this great purpose, the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is essential. Unless we have this blessing, it is almost impossible to escape sins and love good deeds. Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: O bondsman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Are you fearless of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but rather feel fear; if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had not created Paradise and Hell, even He has this right that he should be feared and trusted. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 75, 76)

Remember! Fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not refer to just reading or listening to incidents of the grave, Plains of Resurrection, Accountability and the Meezan (the scale of balancing) and then becoming sad and weeping sometimes but apart from all this, giving up committing sins while fulfilling the obligatory requirements practically and engaging ourselves in obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are

actions of paramount importance for attaining salvation in the Hereafter. Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: (O bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!) Obey Him عَزَّوَجَلَّ being a true seeker of His great Excellency and Personage. Fulfil His commands, refrain from what Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made unlawful for you, exercise infinite patience before Divine decrees, seek forgiveness in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, show utmost humility and shed tears before your Creator. Furthermore, when you seek true forgiveness from the bottom of your heart and continue carrying out righteous deeds constantly and consistently; then, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant you benefits. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 75)

We should judge ourselves as to how many breaths we have inhaled? How important was the period of our childhood, youth and old age? As well as how many stages of life have we spent? How many times, during our past, did we feel the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our hearts? Did we shed tears out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Did our body shiver out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? If our reply is in yes, then think whether we felt all these situations and states from the bottom of our hearts and if it is so then ponder if we have been spending the rest our of lives obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and practically fulfilling all obligatory acts? Or did we just became satisfied by observing these feelings considering that we are amongst those who feared Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and continued doing evil things. And if our answer is in the negative, then seriously ponder that perhaps our hearts have become harder than rocks due to committing sins frequently which has left us unaware of these feelings. If we are truly undergoing this entire situation mentioned here then it is in fact a matter of great concern that this hardness of our hearts leads to negligence that may plunge us into the bottomless pit of Hell.

سلسلہ آہ!گُناہوں کا بڑھا جاتا ہے

نِت نیا جُرم ہر اِک آن ہوا جاتا ہے

آہ! جاتی نہیں ہے عادتِ یاوہ گوئی

وَقْت انمول یُوں برباد ہوا جاتا ہے

اپنی اُلْفَت کا مجھے جام پِلا دو ساقی!

قَلْب دُنیا کی مَحَبَّت میں پھنسا جاتا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! I t is a part of human nature to commit mistakes and errors but making it a habit and showing no repentance and seeking no forgiveness is a great misfortune and a matter of deep regret. Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: O people! Consider you’re the period of your life as sufficient for you until you are alive; soon you will meet your death. Considering these valuable moments sufficient, carry out good deeds if you have the ability to do so, as well as consider repentance and forgiveness as an opportunity and avail it until it is available for you. (Al-Fath-ul-Rabbani, pp. 29)

Dear Islamic brothers! Daily, in our routine lives, we witness the funeral processions and incidents warning us of the dangers of leading a sinful life informing us to consider your life as sufficient before you face your death, but it is observed that only those people pay attention who are worried to improve their Hereafter. We observe that death overcomes young people, elderly people and children as well. Death is a reality we may face at any age, at any moment and at any time. Neither does it care for a person’s busy schedule nor does it care if the person has enormous wealth or is poverty stricken. The moment our breaths come to an end; death leads him to the grave in no time. Therefore, considering this life as a sufficient time period, seek forgiveness from today immediately showing remorsefulness as the Glorious Quran states:

فَمَنۡ تَابَ مِنۡۢ بَعۡدِ ظُلۡمِہٖ وَ اَصۡلَحَ فَاِنَّ اللّٰہَ یَتُوۡبُ عَلَیۡہِ ؕ اِنَّ اللّٰہَ غَفُوۡرٌ رَّحِیۡمٌ ﴿۳۹﴾

‘So if one repents after his wrongdoing and reforms himself, Allah will incline towards him with His mercy; indeed Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful.’

(Surah Al-Mai’dah: verse: 39)

وَ تُوۡبُوۡۤا اِلَی اللّٰہِ جَمِیۡعًا اَیُّہَ الۡمُؤۡمِنُوۡنَ لَعَلَّکُمۡ تُفۡلِحُوۡنَ ﴿۳۱﴾

And turn in repentance together towards Allah, in the hope of attaining success.

(Surah An-Noor, verse: 31)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed verses, Sayyiduna Ismail Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded all the Muslims to seek forgiveness, because instinctively, a human is weak, despite all attempts and efforts he, anyhow, falls into a mistake.

Imam Qushayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The neediest person of seeking forgiveness is one who does not feel its need. The abovementioned verses describe the blessed attribute of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ‘The blessed attribute of great Mercy and Compassion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded all the believers to seek repentance so that the sinners may not fall into disgrace. Because, if only sinners were asked to do so they would fall into disgrace, these blessed verses provide some hope that sinners especially are not the ones who have been addressed or mentioned which brings them disgrace in particular in this world, similarly, they will not be disgraced in the Hereafter as well. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, Part 18, Surah An-Noor, Taht-al-Ayah, 6, 31 /145)

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah’s عَزَّوَجَلَّ mercy and kindness is so boundless that no matter how big a sinner is or how big a transgressor is, even disobeying Divine rights day and night, but despite that, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is most merciful and grants us more and more relief and if we seek true repentance, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives all of our wrong-doings. The Divine mercy does not come to an end here, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers more blessings and even transforms evil deeds into virtues.

اِلَّا مَنۡ تَابَ وَ اٰمَنَ وَ عَمِلَ عَمَلًا صَالِحًا فَاُولٰٓئِکَ یُبَدِّلُ اللّٰہُ سَیِّاٰتِہِمۡ حَسَنٰتٍ ؕ وَ کَانَ اللّٰہُ غَفُوۡرًا رَّحِیۡمًا ﴿۷۰﴾

Except one who repents and accepts faith and does good deeds – so Allah will turn their evil deeds into virtues; and Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful.

(Surah Al Furqan, verse: 70)

Dear Islamic brothers! How Mercifully Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is persuading us to seek forgiveness and how tremendous glad tidings are being conveyed to us by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Despite this, after having listened to all these mercies and favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, if anyone persists in committing sins and delays in seeking repentance then who could be more unwise than that sinner? To understand the significance of seeking forgiveness and repentance along with protecting ourselves from Satan, Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1. All humans are sinners, but the best of sinners are those who seek repentance. (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 491, Raqm 4251)

2. Whoever likes that his record of deeds makes him happy, he should increase seeking repentance? (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 347, Raqm 17579)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya

Dear Islamic brothers! The great sayings of the blessed Saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی provide us with inspiration for seeking forgiveness and we are privileged to show true repentance to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The biographies of the blessed Saints encourage and strengthen us to restrain the Nafs-ul-Ammarah (the Nafs that urges one to evil) and one makes up his mind-set to lead a life submitting to the will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and obey Him عَزَّوَجَلَّ with heart and soul.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is engaged in propagating the call towards righteousness, disseminating the knowledge of the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and illuminating the world with the light of ‘Ilm-e-Deen. The Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has reached approximately 192 countries of the world and almost 95 departments have been setup to organize and coordinate the system of Dawat-e-Islami. Majlis Mazaraat-e- Awliya is also one of these departments. Responsible Islamic brothers connected to this Majlis visit the blessed tombs of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and

carry out various Deeni services there along with other Madani activities, for example, on the occasion of the ‘Urs, of any blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Islamic brothers of this Majlis hold an Ijtima’-e-Zikr-o- Na’at, take Madani Qafilahs of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they stay in Masajid close to the blessed shrine and they hold special Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Halqahs in the courtyard of the shrine during the ‘Urs, in which the method of ablution (Wudu), Ghusl, Tayammum, Salah, Isal-e-Sawaab etc., as well as the manners of visiting the shrines and the blessed Sunnah of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are taught; besides that, people are persuaded to attend the Madani Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, travel with the Madani Qafilahs and practice upon the Madani In’amaat booklets/cards.

During the ‘Urs, immense Isal-e-Sawaab is donated to the blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه of that Mazaar. Custodians (Mutawwalis, and Sajjadah Nasheens etc.) are visited from time to time and they are informed about the services rendered by Dawat-e-Islami, Jami’aat-ul-Madinah, Madaris-ul-Madinah and other Madani activities and efforts being undertaken in overseas countries. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant Dawat-e-Islami progress by leaps and bounds!

Summary of the Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! Through his blessed sayings, Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ always reformed the beloved Ummah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jilaani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ always instructed righteous people to remain steadfast on virtuous deeds, whereas to sinful people and those who are desiring the world he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ instructed them to have love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after giving up love for the world. By virtue of Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ’s sight of Wilayat and his blessed sayings, many people followed the right path. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ proposed that to overcome the Nafsani desires and the association of the company of the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are the cures for the Nafs. Similarly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ always persuaded people to ponder over the hereafter and act upon their

knowledge. Ghaus-e-Pak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also said that one way to control the Nafs and Satan is to have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart.

If only we too could have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then performing good deeds and avoiding sins will become easy!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Take part in 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Keep associating yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan (adults Islamic brothers) is also one of the 12 Madani Zayli activities in which free education of the Glorious Quran is provided and learning and teaching the Quran is considered as one of the greatest and noblest acts.

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ The Best Amongst you is the one who learnt the [Glorious] Quran and taught it to others .

(Sahih Bukhari, Fazail-ul-Quran, Hadees 5027)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In view of the importance and the need of learning and teaching the Glorious Quran and for disseminating the teachings of the Glorious Quran, thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Baalighan for Islamic brothers are conducted at various Masajid etc., under Dawat-e-Islami and thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Balighaat for Islamic sisters are conducted in different timings at different places. Islamic brothers teach Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters. Various Du’as are memorised along with teaching & learning the Glorious Quran with proper pronunciations, learning rulings

about Salah and attaining free education of the Sunnah. So, you too should take part in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan for improving your worldly life and the Hereafter.

­­­

I did not offer even Salat-ul-Jumu’a h

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the spirit to get rid of showing off and love of wealth, always remain associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Make it your habit to travel with the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami. There are great blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Therefore, an Islamic brother of Gujranwala (Punjab, Pakistan) sent me his letter in which he mentioned, ‘I was living my life in fashion, sins and indecent deeds. Due to bad company, I had even become an alcoholic. I had been so wicked that I did not offer even Jumu’ah Salah. Despite being a Hafiz of the Quran, I didn’t even open the Quran for almost twelve years and, as a result, I had been made to forget almost all of it. I was living a life of ignorance. Luckily, the star of my fortune shone when I met an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. I was impressed by his good character and affectionate behaviour. He invited me to attend Dawat-e-Islami’s three day Sunnah-Inspiring global Ijtima’ being held in Madina-tul-Awliya, Multan. I politely excused myself telling him that I am jobless and cannot afford the expenses of the journey. He encouraged me very politely and arranged my ticket.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ َ! I was privileged to participate in the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ . The Sunnah-Inspiring speeches and the heart-rending Du’a changed my life altogether. When I returned from the Ijtima’, a Madani transformation had taken place in my heart. Then, along with lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I was privileged to travel with a Madani Qafilah in which I adopted many Sunan. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ With the blessings of the Madani environment I learnt the forgotten Quran by heart again. I also got the privilege of performing Imamat for seven successive years. At present, I am serving Dawat-e-Islami as a responsible member of ‘Punjab Makki Majlis’.

Sunnah and etiquettes of travelling

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I will take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. If possible start your journey on a Thursday because it is a Sunnah to start a journey on a Thursday. (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 5, pp. 161)

2. If it is possible to travel at night then one should travel at night because the journey is completed faster.

3. If there are many Islamic brothers travelling together, then make one the leader (Ameer).

4. Upon leaving for the journey, ask pardon of any faults from friends, family; and whoever asks to be forgiven, he should be forgiven.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 19, vol. 6)

5. While wearing clothes that you will travel in, and if it is not a Makruh time, whosoever offers 4 Rak’aat Nafl with ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ وَ قُلۡ ’ then leaves home, those Rak’aat will protect his family and wealth.

6. Whenever we leave on a journey, we should entrust the family and wealth to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Without doubt Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best Protector. If possible one should say the following words to the family:

اَسْتَوْدِعُكَ اللّٰہَ الَّذِیْ لَا یُضِیْعُ وَ دَائِعَہٗ

Translation: I put you in Allah’s protection who doesn’t waste given debts. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 372, Hadees 2825)

1. The Islamic brothers who travel for business should read the following 5 Surahs of the Holy Quran:

a. قُلۡ يٰاَ يُّهَا الۡكَفِرُوۡنَ: Till the end

b. اِذَا جَآءَ نَصۡرُ اللّٰهِ وَالۡفَتۡحُ: Till the end

c. قُلۡ هُوَ اللّٰهُ اَحَدٌ: Till the end

d. قُلۡ اَعُوۡذُ بِرَبِّ الۡفَلَقِ: Till the end

e. قُلۡ اَعُوۡذُ بِرَبِّ النَّاسِ: Till the end

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

