اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Destruction of Following Desires

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes the reward of one Qeerat for him and one Qeerat is equal to the mount Uhud. (Musannaf ‘Abdur Razzaq, vol. 1, pp. 39, Hadees 153)

شافع روزِ جَزا تُم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود دافع جُملہ بَلا تُم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a famous saying, ‘As you sow so shall you reap’. On the basis of it when a Muslim performs good deeds and acts upon them steadfastly, he gets the best reward for it. On the contrary, when the same Muslim performs bad deeds, he gets severe punishment for them and he is

destroyed. In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, held under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to something about it.

Can a disease itself become a medicine?

On page 367, volume 1 of the two-volume book ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah it is stated: The renowned pious person of the spiritual Sufi order of Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One night, I became very restless. I kept myself busy worshipping Allah Almighty, but I had no inner peace. I tried my best to pay full attention to my worship with extreme humility and presence of the heart, but I could not succeed in my effort. I then started reciting the Holy Quran, and yet I could not concentrate and get inner peace. I wondered as to why I was not able to concentrate on Divine worship and I lost my inner peace. Eventually, in the last part of the night, I put my shawl on my shoulder and went out of my home. After walking some distance, I saw a person wrapped in a shawl.

When I approached him, he raised his head and asked me, ‘Why are you so worried?’ Has the Judgement Day begun?’ I asked, ‘Has the fixed day of the Judgement Day come?’ That person replied, ‘No, but I am just asking if you are going to attain inner peace due to being worried about the state of agitation and restlessness.’ I replied in the affirmative and said that I have really come out to attain the peace of the heart and I want to know as to why I am not getting inner peace tonight?’ [I then asked him] Ok tell me! ‘Do you need anything from me?’ He answered in the affirmative and said he needed something from me. I asked him: Tell me what you need from me. He replied: ‘O Abu Qaasim! Tell me if there is any situation in which disease itself becomes a medicine.’ I replied, ‘Yes! There is one such situation in which disease itself becomes a medicine. Listen carefully! When you oppose the desires of your Nafs, all diseases of your heart will go away from you and the same diseases will themselves become a medicine.’

Having heard this, that man took a sigh of relief and said, ‘I have been answered this question in the same way seven times tonight, but I had the desire to listen to this answer from you. By the grace of Allah Almighty, this desire of mine has been fulfilled and I have heard the answer to my question

from your tongue. Saying this that person left and then he was never seen again. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how excellent prescription for the diseases of the heart Sayyiduna Abu Qaasim Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a great pious person of the Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah spiritual Sufi order gave to that person by saying that when he would oppose his desires of Nafs, all the diseases of the heart would go away from him and the same diseases themselves would also become a medicine. From this it has been learnt that satisfying and fulfilling the Nafsani [carnal] desires are very deadly diseases as they fill the heart with the filth of sins. Just ponder over this, isn’t it the reason due to which nothing virtuous affects upon our hearts and we do not take interest in acts of worship? So we should also get the lesson from this parable that instead of wasting our life in satisfying desires unnecessarily, we should live a life full of virtuous deeds as per Sunnah.

Definition of following Desires!

Remember! Fulfilling each and every desire of Nafs without caring whether it is permissible or impermissible is called following desires. (Baatini Beemariyon Ki Ma’loomat, pp. 101) Surely satisfying desires only brings about loss. The evil influences of it can be very well judged by the following blessed Hadees as well.

Three deadly things

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Three things bring destruction: (1) Being obsessed with greed (2) Following Nafsani [carnal] desires. (3) A person’s act of feeling proud of himself.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 212, Hadees 5754)

Dear Islamic brothers! If we succeed in overcoming Nafsani [carnal] desires, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will also get out of evil habit of greed and will also get rid of various kinds of sins. In this way, our inner self will get purified as well as we will attain the blessing of extreme humility and presence of the heart in acts of worship. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Dear Islamic brothers! Human desires never end; with the passage of time, they keep increasing. At present, people do not care whether they have to take a loan or use impermissible or Haraam sources to fulfil these desires. Let’s listen to few blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran condemning the act of following desires so that we too learn about the destruction of Nafsani desires and try to avoid them. In Ayah 59 of Surah Maryam, Part 16, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then a fter them came the unworthy successors who wasted prayer and followed their desires, so soon they will encounter the valley Ghayy (in Hell). (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 59)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has reported that Sayyiduna ‘Uqbah Bin ‘Aamir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: I heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Soon the people of the book and the people of Labn will be destroyed from my Ummah. I humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are the people of the book?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Those who learn the book so that they quarrel with true believers through it.’ I humbly asked, ‘Who are the people of Labn?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Those who satisfy their desires and waste their Salah.’ (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 5, pp. 527)

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Ash’as رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام: Undoubtedly, the hearts which are connected to the desires of the world are away from Me. (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, pp. 527)

In Ayah 27 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اللّٰهُ یُرِیْدُ اَنْ یَّتُوْبَ عَلَیْكُمْ-  وَ یُرِیْدُ الَّذِیْنَ یَتَّبِعُوْنَ الشَّهَوٰتِ اَنْ تَمِیْلُوْا مَیْلًا عَظِیْمًا(۲۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah wills to turn towards you with His mercy; but those who indulge in their own pleasures wish that you stay far away from the Straight Path. (Part 5, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 27)

(Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, pp. 526)

The contextual background of the abovementioned Ayah is that non-Muslims would consider it Halal to perform Nikah with the daughters of their brothers and sisters. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made it Haraam to perform Nikah with them, they started saying to Muslims: The way you consider it permissible to perform Nikah with maternal and paternal aunt’s daughters though the aunts are Haraam for you, similarly, perform Nikah with the brother and sister’s daughters too. Upon that the abovementioned Ayah was revealed saying that these people also want you to start committing fornication like them.

(Madarik, Surah An-Nisa, Taht-al-Ayah: 27, pp. 223)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has condemned those who satisfy their desires! Such people will be put into the valley of Hell namely, Ghayy . Similarly, in another blessed Ayah, hypocrites have been condemned because they were disgraced due to satisfying desires and now, due to malice and enmity, they want Muslims to fall into this evil habit too.

Dear Islamic brothers! If we want to follow Islamic teachings after getting rid of fashion, want to live our lives as per Sunnah after giving up love for fashion, want our reformation and Madani Tarbiyyat for our children and want to give them the mind-set of pondering over the Hereafter from their childhood, we have to associate [ourselves] with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment, countless lovers of fashion and lovers of western culture have repented and started following Sunnahs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to make your mind to abandon Nafsani [carnal] desires for the sake of the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, some blessed Ahadees are being mentioned about the condemnation of satisfying desires so that more success can be achieved in staying safe from this deadly disease.

Paradise and Hell are nearer to you

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Paradise is nearer to you than your shoelace is near to your shoe and so is Hell (i.e., very near). However, Paradise has been covered up with troubles and Hell with desires and pleasures. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 243, Hadees 6487)

Who is wise and who is unwise?

In the same way, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

اَلۡكَيِّسُ مَنۡ دَانَ نَفۡ سَه ٗ وَ عَمِلَ لِمَا بَعۡدَ الۡمَوۡتِ وَ الۡعاجز مَنِ اتَّبَعَ نَفۡسَه ٗ هُوَا هَاثم تَمَنَّي عَلَي اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Translation: Wise and sensible is he who makes an accountability of his Nafs [self] and performs deeds for the life after death and weak is he who follows Nafsani [carnal] desires and hopes to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (Allah Almighty’s mercy to attain Paradise). (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 496, Hadees 4260)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, Paradise is an extremely beautiful place full of blessings and comforts, but it is not easy to get there, rather extremely difficult passes are on its way in the form of acts of worship, spiritual exercises and virtuous deeds which have to be crossed, whereas, Hell is the place of terrors, troubles and different torments, but it is extremely easy to get to it because Hell is covered up with Nafsani [carnal] desires, so the person who lives his life satisfying impermissible desires of his Nafs, it is feared that he might be made to enter Hell. Therefore, whoever, amongst us, wishes to enter Paradise and desires to stay safe from the torment of Hell [everyone should have this desire] should try to overcome his permissible desires along with impermissible desires by opposing Nafs because if we do

not suppress our permissible desires, they will cause us to have impermissible desires. Let’s listen to another blessed Hadees for admonition.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created Paradise and Hell, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to Paradise and said, ‘Look at Paradise and its blessings which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘So Sayyiduna Jibraeel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) came to Paradise and saw Paradise and the blessings of Paradise which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise and came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘By Your Honour and Majesty! Whoever will hear of this Paradise must try to enter it.’ Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gave the order and Paradise was covered with difficulties and troubles. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then said to Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘Go again and see Paradise and its blessings which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Jannah.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to Paradise again and what he saw was that it was covered with difficulties and troubles. Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came to the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By Your Honour and Majesty! I fear that now no one will be able to enter it.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then said, ‘Now go towards Hell and see Hell and its torments which I have prepared for the inhabitants of Hell.’ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went and saw that one part of [ the fire of] Hell was climbing up the other one. So he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘O Allah Almighty! By Your Honour and Majesty! There is no one who after hearing about (the severity of) Hell will enter it (i.e., he will try to protect himself from it).’ Hence by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Hell was covered with the covers of desires and pleasures. Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ordered Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم, ‘Go towards Hell again’ Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went and came to the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said, ‘O Allah Almighty! By Your Honour and Majesty! I fear that now no one will be able to stay safe from it, but rather they (after indulging themselves in desires) will enter it.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2569)

Explanation of blessed Hadees

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah Ibn-e-Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Desires refer to the worldly activities by which pleasure is obtained whether it is directly prohibited by Shari’ah or it causes abandonment of any Divine commandments if it is done. Moreover, doubtful/suspicious acts and permissible and Mubah acts which may lead to Haraam if performed are all included in it [desires]. (Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 11, pp. 273)

Sayyiduna Atiyyah Bin Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A man cannot become pious and abstinent until he gives up permissible and Mubah acts in order to avoid impermissible acts.

(Al-Mustadrak, Hadees 7969)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this blessed Hadees it has been learnt that a bondsman can enter Paradise after experiencing these difficulties and troubles and get rid of Hell after giving up following his Nafsani [carnal] desires.

In Kufa while delivering sermon, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated: O people! I fear most for you that you may follow your carnal desires and have high hopes because high hopes make a person forget the Hereafter and obedience to Nafsani [carnal] desires leads a person astray. Be careful! Undoubtedly, the world is about to deceive you and surely the Hereafter is about to come and there are people who want both, hence you become the ones who desire the Hereafter and do not become the ones who desire the world. Today is [the time of] deed, [but] no accountability and tomorrow [on the Judgement Day] there will be accountability, [but] no opportunity for deed.’ (Az-Zuhd, pp. 58)

When Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked about the reason for weeping bitterly when looking at a grave, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I imagine my loneliness because no one amongst the people will be with me in the grave.’ (Then presenting the call towards righteousness) he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: The grave is Paradise for the one whose world is like a prison and it is a prison for the one whose world is Paradise for him. Death is the message of release for the one whose worldly life was like imprisonment. The one who gives up Nafsani [carnal] desires in the world will find full reward in the Hereafter. A

better person is he who leaves the world before the world leaves him, and who is content with his Creator before meeting Him. Everyone will be treated in his grave according to his worldly life, that is, if he spends his life performing virtuous deeds, he will find comforts in the grave, but if he meets his death committing sins, he will be totally destroyed. (Maw’izah Hasanah, pp. 61-62)

Dear Islamic brothers! The pious bondsmen of Allah Almighty would deeply ponder over the internal conditions of the grave and would keep themselves far away from the instability of the world and obedience to the desires of Nafs. Surely, these blessed personalities would know that taking interest in the world and satisfying desires bring about loss in the Hereafter.

But unfortunately! We do not learn any admonitory lesson even after visiting the graveyards many times and lowering many dead bodies with our own hands. Those who would follow their desires and consider this world to be everything for them are reaping today what they sowed in the world.

Remember! On the surface, the graves appear similar, but they are different from the inside. Some people’s graves are a beautiful flower garden and orchard whilst others are full of burning coals, snakes and scorpions. Just ponder over it! If a person is buried alive in the narrow, dark and frightening grave as a punishment for missing only one Salah or for lying only once or for backbiting only once or having unlawful gaze only once, or listening to a song once or watching a movie once or abusing somebody only once or scolding someone only once out of anger without any Shar’i permission or having beard shaved only once or trimming it less than the length of a fist once, what will be his condition! Undoubtedly, those who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ tremble even to imagine it. It is only worldly imagination, otherwise who will be able to endure the torments which a person will have to suffer after death if he displeases Allah Almighty? It is stated in Hilyat-ul- Awliya: When a bondsman is buried in his grave, all those things come to frighten him of which he was frightened in the world, but did not fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 10, pp. 12, Raqm 14318)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Qafilah – one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to prepare for the grave and Hereafter, safeguard yourselves against the sins, develop a habit of worship and recitation of the Holy Quran and defeat every attack of Shaytan and Nafs, you should associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami which is the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. Moreover, participate devotedly in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities is “Madani Qafilah”. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Madani Qafilah is a source of acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen [knowledge of Islam]. Madani Qafilah is a means of being showered with mercy. Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, one gets steadfastness in Faraaid and Wajibat [obligatory acts]. Due to the blessings of Madani Qafilah, one gets the opportunity of acting upon the Sunnahs. Due to the blessings of Madani Qafilah, one gets the privilege of offering Ishraq, Chasht, Awwabeen and Tahajjud. Due to the blessings of Madani Qafilah, one gets the opportunity to act upon the Sunnah of inviting people towards righteousness. For encouragement, let’s listen to a Madani parable of a Madani Qafilah and rejoice.

Salvation from sins

An Islamic brother had deeply indulged in sins before joining the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Missing Salahs deliberately, disobeying parents and committing various sins were some of his everyday routines. The darkness of sins had surrounded him so much that he would not listen to anyone’s advice. He would turn a deaf ear to everyone who would advise him. The company of evil people had badly affected his manners and character. How positive changes took place in his life is a pleasant story to listen to. One day, an Islamic brother who was a devotee of Rasool and was associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami met him. He made individual efforts to transform the life full of sins into a fragrant Sunnah-following life and motivated him to travel with the Madani Qafilahs along with the devotees of Rasool of Dawat-e-Islami. He could not refuse him due to his sincere and affectionate invitation and got ready for the Madani Qafilah. Moreover, very soon, he became a traveller of Madani Qafilah with the devotees of Rasool. By virtue of traveling in the Madani Qafilah, he

attained the blessing of offering five daily Salahs regularly in the first row for the first time in his life. Moreover, he learnt about purity, Salah and other important Shar’i rulings in the other learning and teaching Madani sessions. Furthermore, due to the blessings of the company of the devotees of Rasool, a prominent change took place in his character. He developed a deep dislike for sins in his heart and got inclined towards righteous deeds. He also developed a mindset to act upon the Sunnahs. He made a firm intention to offer Salahs with steadfastness and also adorned his head with a green Islamic turban soon.

لوٹنے رحمتیں قافلے میں چلو سیکھنے سُنتیں قافلے میں چلو

چاہو گر برکتیں قافلے میں چلو پاؤ گے عظمتیں قافلے میں چلو چلو

Dear Islamic brothers! Salvation lies in abstaining from the desires of Nafs. Those who abstain from the desires of Nafs for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, so Allah Almighty blesses them with the everlasting favours of the Paradise as reward. Therefore, it is stated in Surah Nazi’aat, Ayah no. 40 and 41:

وَ اَمَّا مَنْ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّهٖ وَ نَهَى النَّفْسَ عَنِ الْهَوٰىۙ(۴۰) فَاِنَّ الْجَنَّةَ هِیَ الْمَاْوٰىؕ(۴۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And as for he who feared to stand before his Lord and prevented his soul from (illicit) desire. So indeed only Paradise is his abode.

In this ayah, Allah Almighty has praised those who refrain from following their desires and given them the glad tidings of Paradise.

Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Daarani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: “To refrain from one of the desires of Nafs is more beneficial for the heart than the Siyam (fasting) of one year and Qiyam (Nafl Salah) of the nights of the entire year.” (Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 2, pp. 336)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how many virtues lie in abstaining from desires? As the one who abstains from desires, Allah Almighty blesses him with the reward of Paradise. Therefore, we shall also try not to remain

deprived of these rewards and blessings and try our best to abstain from desires in order to attain these rewards and blessings.

There can be various reasons that entice one to follow desires. I will mention five of those reasons and their cure so that it becomes further easy for us to refrain from these destructive traits.

1 Habit of being impressed quickly

Upon listening to the praise of something or seeing someone having something, one develops the desire in the heart that I should also have this thing (i.e. someone’s nice mobile phone, laptop, iPad, house, shop, car, etc.). Upon looking at these things, whether we need them or not, we just want to obtain those things by hook or by crook. Now because obtaining all these things is very difficult, this person will cross all the boundaries of Halal and Haraam in order to fulfil his desires and end up being in the deep pits of destruction.

Cure

Its cure is that such a person should develop the habit of distinguishing between needs and unlawful desires. In this regard, he should consult with a righteous and sincere friend and should ponder over the harms and condemnation of desires. Moreover, in order to fulfil his lawful desire, he should only adopt lawful means.

2 Ill trait of extravagance

Similarly, another reason to entice one to fulfil his desires can also be the ill trait of extravagance. This is because an extravagant person will end up buying everything he likes without thinking whether it is useful to him or not. This way, such a person wastes a lot of money of his on fulfilling his desires.

Cure

The cure for this is that while spending money, a person should focus only on his needs. He shall not buy anything unnecessarily. If possible, the amount that was to be spent on useless thing, he should give it as sadaqah [charity].

Remember! Spending on something in which spending is forbidden by Shari’ah or by norms, i.e. spending on sins and transgression, spending on strangers in such a way that you ignore your own family members and household, is called extravagance. (Baatini Beemariyon ka Ilaj, pp. 301)

If extravagance is against the Shari’ah, then it is Haraam and if it is against the norms, then it is Makruh Tanzeehi. (Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 2, pp. 28)

It is stated on page no. 256 of the masterpiece, Faizan-e-Sunnat, volume 1, authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

Mufassir-e-Shaheer, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions in Tafseer Na’eemi, volume 8, page 390:

There are many explanations of extravagance.

1 Considering Halal things to be Haraam,

2 Using Haraam things,

3 Eating, drinking and wearing more than one’s needs,

4 Eating, drinking or wearing whatever one wants to,

5 Keep eating and drinking frequently during the day and night which makes one have stomach problems, fall ill,

6 Eating and drinking the things that are harmful to health,

7 Always thinking about eating, drinking and wearing. Thinking that what I will eat now, what will I drink now? (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 3, pp. 154),

8 Eating for heedlessness,

9 Eating to commit a sin,

10 Being used to excellent foods and clothing so much so that he cannot eat ordinary food,

11 Considering excellent foods to be the result of his own efforts.

In short, this one word [extravagance] contains various rulings. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 8, pp. 390)

3 Thinking unnecessarily about others’ affairs

Similarly, one reason for indulging in following desires is thinking unnecessarily about others’ affairs. Thinking unnecessarily about the excellent dresses, grand palaces and luxurious lifestyle of others not only creates the destructive trait of jealousy in a person, but it also ignites the fire of following desires in one’s heart. Then, blinded by his desires, such a person even adopts impermissible means to earn wealth in order to fulfil his desires.

Cure

The cure for this is that such a person should refrain from thinking about the affairs of other people. He should have patience and be thankful for what Allah Almighty has bestowed upon him. He should look at those who are poorer than him and pay gratitude to Allah Almighty. Moreover, he should study the biography of righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and ponder over the affairs of their lives so that his heart could be inclined towards righteousness and piety.

4 Heedlessness from one’s own reform

One of the reasons for following Nafs and Shaytan is not to pay attention towards one’s own reform. If a person does not hold himself accountable for his deeds, he never gets aware of his own shortcomings and sins. Therefore, such a person keeps committing sins and following shaytan.

Cure

Such a person should carry out his self-accountability on a daily basis. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, it is called performing “Fikr e Madinah”. Before going to sleep in the night, one should ponder on the fact that what righteous actions did he perform today? Which evil actions and sins did he commit today? He should scold his Nafs for his sins and promise himself not to commit sins again. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani In’amaat given by

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه are very useful to hold the accountability of the Nafs. Moreover, performing Fikr e Madinah on a daily basis and submitting the Madani In’amaat booklet every Islamic month is also one of the Madani activities out of the twelve Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Acting upon the Madani In’amaat is a great means of carrying out one’s self-accountability and preparing oneself for the grave and Hereafter. Therefore, try to act upon the Madani In’amaat. Fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat while performing Fikr-e-Madinah on a daily basis and submit it to your responsible Islamic brother within the first ten days of every month.

اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with its blessings, you will develop a Madani mindset to refrain from the dangerous disease of following Shaytan and committing other sins.

5 Eating to full stomach

Similarly, one of the reasons for following desires is also to eat to a full stomach. It is obvious that Shaytan easily dominates the one who eats to a full stomach. Due to this, one does not get inclined towards the righteous actions, instead, his desires increase, making him interested in committing sins more.

Evils of having a heavy build

Sayyiduna Yahya Mu’aaz Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: One who gets used to eating to a full stomach, flesh grows on his body; and the person with flesh growing on his body fulfils his desire; and the one who fulfils his desire, his sins increase; and the one whose sins increase, he becomes hard-hearted; and the one who becomes hard-hearted, he drowns in the evils and attractions of this world. (Munabbihat lil ‘Asqalani, pp. 59)

Attack of sins on the one who eats to full stomach

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a matter of great concern that eating to full stomach causes a person to fall into the pits of sins. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: ‘Excessive eating causes mischief in

body parts and creates the desire of committing violent and immodest deeds. When a person eats to his full stomach, his eyes desire to see immodest things, his ears desire to hear evil things, his tongue wants to speak about indecent things, his private part demands the satisfaction of desires and his feet are keen to move towards impermissible places. On the contrary, if a person is hungry, all of his body parts remain peaceful. They will neither desire for any evil nor will they get happy when seeing it.’ Abu Ja’far رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘When the stomach is hungry, all other body parts are at peace. They desire nothing, and when the stomach is full, other body parts become hungry and take the person to committing evil things.’ (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 82)

Cure

Dear Islamic brothers! Remedy for refraining from sins after eating to a full stomach is that a person should protect himself from the evils of Nafs by eating less than hunger. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, one is motivated to abstain from consuming a Haraam morsel. Moreover, he should even eat permissible and Mubah food in less quantity with the intention of gaining energy to perform worship so that he can relish the blessing of sweetness of the worship and does not get inclined towards sins. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, eating less than hunger is called “Qufl e Madinah of the stomach”. In order to get a mindset to act upon this, Shaykh e Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written a wonderful book called “Payt ka Qufl-e-Madinah – The Excellence of Hunger”, comprising 162 pages. By the blessing of reading this book, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be able to collect various Madani pearls about the manners of eating, benefits of eating less than hunger, rules of remaining healthy and various other Madani pearls. This book can be purchased from any branch of Maktaba tul Madinah. In addition, it can also be read, downloaded and printed out from the website of Dawat-e- Islami, www.dawateislami.net.

Majlis for the reform of prisoners

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The fragrant Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat e Islami provides a good company. After being associated with the Madani environment, millions of people have repented from their sinful lives and started leading a life of piety. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the enthusiasm of propagating Islam, Madani work is conducted in various jails of the world under the Majlis “Islah Bara`ay Qaydiyan” (Majlis for the reform of prisoners) of Dawat-e-Islami in order to reform the prisoners. In various prisons of Pakistan, Madaris for the teaching of Quran have been established. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ these Madaris will be established in other prisons as well. Dars from the booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat is delivered every day in prisons. Moreover, monthly and weekly Ijtima of Zikr o Na’at is also held in various prisons. Grieved prisoners are given the Ta’wizaat of Majlis Maktubaat o Ta’wizaat e Attariyyah of Dawat-e-Islamic free of cost. Different courses are organized for conveying religious and moral teachings to those who are set free. For example, 41 days’ Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah course, 63 days’ Tarbiyyati course, 12 days’ Madani course, Imamat course and Mudarris course etc. are also conducted.

Madani pearls in relation to blessed Hadees

Dear Islamic brothers! Bringing the Bayan towards the end, let’s listen to some Madani pearls in relation to Hadees-e-Pak. First, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who memorises 40 Ahadees in relation to Deen and imparts it to my Ummah, Allah Almighty will resurrect him on the Day of Judgment with such glory that he will be a Faqeeh [Jurist], and I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgment and will bear witness for him. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 258)

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: May Allah Almighty keep him fresh who listens to my Hadees, remembers it and imparts it to others! (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 298, Hadees 2665)

Announcement

Rest of the important Madani pearls in relation to Hadees-e-Pak will be mentioned in the learning sessions. Therefore, in order to learn these Madani pearls, do participate in these learning sessions.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭…٭…٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 28 June 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls in relation to blessed Hadees

٭ In Islam, word of Rasoolullah (i.e. Hadees) has the highest rank after the Word of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (i.e. Quran). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 2)

٭ It is Fard [obligatory] for every human being to obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this obedience is impossible without knowing Hadees and Sunnah. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 9)

٭ Claiming to have Iman on Quran after denying the Ahadees is merely a false statement. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 36)

٭ Do not state something [as a Hadees] unless it is known that it is really a blessed Hadees. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 451)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Refrain from stating a Hadees attributed to me unless you have certain knowledge. The one who deliberately associated a lie with me should make his abode in the Hell. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 439, Hadees 2960)

٭ Do not forward any Hadees through SMS without reference unless you have it verified from a Sunni Mufti [Islamic jurist] or ‘Aalim [Islamic scholar] who has correct beliefs. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 440)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for reading the book

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a for reading the book ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰهُمَّ افۡتَحۡ عَلَيۡنَا حِكۡمَتَكَ وَانۡشُرۡ عَلَيۡنَا رَحۡمَتَكَ يَـا ذَا الۡجَلَالِ وَالۡاِكۡرَام

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Open the door of knowledge and wisdom for us, and have mercy on us! O the One Who is the Most Honourable and Glorious!

(Al-Mustatraf, vol. 1, pp. 40)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

٭ I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

٭ I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

3 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

