اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Ramadan

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ حَیْثُمَا کُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَّیَ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَکُمْ تَبْلُغُنِیْ ’ Recite Salat upon me wherever you are as your Salat reaches me.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Hadees 2729)

قبر میں خوب کام آتی ہے بیکسوں کی ہے یارِ غار درود

بیٹھتے اُٹھتے جاگتے سوتے ہو اِلٰہی مِرا شِعار دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Millions of thanks be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has bestowed the blessed month of Ramadan upon us. Today is the last Friday night of the blessed month of Sha’ban. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ willing so we will very soon be enjoying the blessings of Ramadan. Let’s listen to great virtues of Ramadan.

First night of the month of Ramadan

On page 35 of his renowned book ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan (amended) ’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: On the first blessed Ramadan, a breeze called Museerah blows beneath the great ‘Arsh, shaking the leaves of Heavenly trees and making such a pleasing sound that no one has ever heard better sound than this. Having heard this sound big-eyed Houris [beautiful Heavenly maidens] appear and stand on the tall palaces of Paradise and say, ‘Is there anyone who asks for our hand in marriage from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that we perform Nikah with him?’ These Houris then ask the Daaroghah (custodian) of Paradise, (Sayyiduna) Ridwan عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘What night is tonight?’ (Sayyiduna) Ridwan عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام recites Talbiyah (i.e. Labbayk) in reply and says, ‘It is the first night of the blessed month of Ramadan; the doors of Paradise have been opened for the Sawm-observing Muslims of the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 60, Hadees 23)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how affectionate and kind Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to Sawm-observing believers! He عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens the doors of Paradise for them in the blessed month of Ramadan. Moreover, this blessed month of Ramadan has great status and excellence because Paradise is decorated for the whole year in order to welcome it (Ramadan).

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘No doubt, Paradise is decorated for blessed Ramadan from the beginning of the year to the next year.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated, ‘On the first day of Ramadan, a breeze blows beneath Heavenly trees to the large-eyed Houris [maidens of Heaven]. They humbly say, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make such bondmen out of Your bondmen our husband

by seeing whom we feel pleased, and when they see us they feel pleased too.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 312, Hadees 3633)

Congratulations! The sacred month of Ramadan is coming very soon with abundant mercy and forgiveness. The greatness and excellence of the blessed month of Ramadan can also be judged by the fact that as soon as this blessed month of Ramadan would begin with its blessings, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would congratulate his blessed companions and give them good news upon its arrival.

Congratulating on arrival of blessed Ramadan

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that giving good news to his blessed companions the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would state: The sacred month of Ramadan, which is extremely blessed, has come to you. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made its Siyam obligatory on you. The doors of Paradise are opened and the doors of Hell are closed and Satans are tied up in it (Ramadan). There is a night in it, that is better than a thousand months and the one who is deprived of its goodness is absolutely deprived.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 3, pp. 331, Hadees 9001)

Regarding this blessed Hadees the renowned commentator, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Since this sacred month of Ramadan has both Hissee [ حِسِّی ] (i.e. that can be felt) and Ghaybi (hidden) blessings, another name of it is also ‘a blessed month’. In the blessed month of Ramadan, there is blessing naturally in the sustenance of believers and the reward for every virtuous deed is seventy fold or even more than this. From this blessed Hadees it has become obvious that feeling happy and wishing one another upon the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan are Sunnah. Moreover, the arrival of a thing makes us happy, so we should also feel sad when it leaves.

It is for this reason majority of Muslims feel sad and weep on Jumu’a-tul-Wada’ [the last Friday of blessed Ramadan], and Khutaba recite some farewell words on this day so that Muslims make efforts to perform more and more virtuous deeds by valuing the remaining time of this blessed month. All these have been derived from this blessed Hadees. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 137)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, an atmosphere of great happiness is created with the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan that is full of mercy and forgiveness; it is given a great and big welcome, but farewell is bidden to it in tears as well when this blessed month leaves us.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written the following beautiful Kalam [poetry] to express his joy upon the arrival of this blessed month to show gratitude to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for this great blessing and to highlight the greatness and significance of this month of forgiveness.

مرحبا صد مرحبا!

مرحبا صد مرحبا پھر آمدِ رَمَضَان ہے كِھل اُٹھے مُرجھائے دل تازہ ہوا اِیمان ہے

ہم گُناہگاروں پہ یہ كتنا بڑا احسان ہے یا خُدا تُونے عطا پھر كر دیا رَمَضَان ہے

تجھ پہ صَدقے جاؤں رَمَضَاں تُو عَظِیمُ الشّان ہے كہ خدا نے تجھ میں ہی نازِل كیا قرآن ہے

اَبرِ رَحمت چھا گیا ہے اور سَماں ہے نُور نُور فَضلِ ربّ سے مَغفِرَت كا ہو گیا سامان ہے

ہر گھڑی رحمت بھری ہے ہر طرف ہیں بَرَكتیں ماہِ رَمَضَاں رَحمتوں اور بَرَكتوں كی كان ہے

آ گیا رَمَضَاں عبادت پر کَمَر اب باندھ لو فیض لے لو جلد كہ دِن تیس كا مہمان ہے

عاصیوں كی مغفرت كا لے كر آیا ہے پیام جُھوم جاؤ مُجرِمو رَمَضاں مَہِ غُفران ہے

بھائیو كر لو گُناہوں سے سبھی توبہ كہ اب پڑ گئے دوزخ پہ تالے قید میں شَیطان ہے

خوش دِلی سے سُنّتیں اپنائے جاؤ بھائیو خُلد كے دَر كُھل گئے ہیں داخِلہ آسان ہے

مَسجِدیں آباد ہیں زورِ گُنہ كم ہوگیا ماہِ رَمَضَانُ المبارک كا یہ سب فیضان ہے

روزہ دارو جُھوم جاؤ كیونكہ دِیدارِ خدا خُلد میں ہوگا تمہیں یہ وعدۂ رحمٰن ہے

دو جہاں كی نعمتیں ملتی ہیں روزہ دار كو جو نہیں ركھتا ہے روزہ وہ بڑا نادان ہے

یا الٰہی تُو مدینے میں كبھی رَمَضَاں دكھا مُدّتوں سے دل میں یہ عطّار كے ارمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sixty thousand are forgiven every night

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn-e-Mas’ood رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَ ـ عَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَ ـ عَـالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم stated: Every night of blessed Ramadan, a Munadi [i.e. a proclaimer] calls out in the skies until the dawn, ‘O the one who asks for goodness! Complete (i.e. keep obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and rejoice, and O the evil one! Give up your evil and take an admonitory lesson . Is there anyone who wants forgiveness so that his need be fulfilled? Is there anyone who repents so that his repentance be accepted? Is there anyone who makes Du’a so that his Du’a be answered? Is there anyone who asks for something so that he be bestowed what he asks for?’ Each night of Ramadan at the time of Iftar, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ frees sixty thousand sinners from Hell and on the day of Eid, sinners equal to the total of the whole month are forgiven.’

(Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 146)

Dear Islamic brothers! The moments of the month of Ramadan are so blessed that Divine mercy and forgiveness are being distributed to bondmen in its every moment. This is the sacred month in which days are spent in observing Siyam and nights in reciting the Holy Quran, and both these i.e. Sawm and Holy Quran will intercede for Muslims on the Judgement Day.

Sawm and Holy Quran will intercede

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sawm and Quran will intercede for a bondman on the Day of Judgement. Sawm will humbly say, ‘O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I prevented him from eating and satisfying his desires during the day, accept my intercession for him.’ The Holy Quran will say, ‘I prevented him from sleeping in the night, accept my intercession for him.’ Hence the intercession of both will be accepted.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, pp. 586, vol. 2, Hadees 6637)

Reason for forgiveness

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had intended to punish the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would never have bestowed upon them Ramadan and Surah Al-Ikhlas.’

(Nuzha-tul-Majalis, vol. 1, pp. 216)

Home Dars

Dear Islamic brothers! Home Dars is also an excellent source of giving your family members the mind-set to perform other Fard [obligatory] acts regularly besides observing Siyam of the blessed month of Ramadan, making them the ones who act upon Sunnahs and creating Madani environment at home. Home Dars is a source of gaining the blessings of the blessed month of Ramadan and developing the significance of Fard (obligatory) Siyam in your hearts. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘Home Dars’ is the source of protecting the faith of family members and reforming their deeds. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Home Dars’ unity is created. By virtue of its blessings one gets rid of quarrels and discords. By virtue of the blessing of Home Dars, one increases his Islamic knowledge day by day. Therefore, give or listen to the Dars at least once daily from Faizan-e-Sunnat at your homes in order to develop Madani environment. Dars can also be given from the annotated and referenced booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه according to situation. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to perform other Madani activities as well with zeal and enthusiasm along with ‘Home Dars’! Aameen

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Home Dars for persuasion:

Madani parable

The whole family members of an Islamic brother from Akola (Maharashtra, India) were non-practising as well as people with corrupt belief due to having relationship with heretics. One day when they all were busy watching TV together their 17-year-old brother, who was attending the Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in those days, entered the room walking with his back towards the TV they were watching, took something that belonged to him out of the wardrobe and returned in the same manner. Having seen this strange action from him his elder brother angrily shouted: ‘Are you mad? Why are you acting childishly today?’ Without saying anything in response the younger brother went to another room.

Their mother summarized: My younger son told me that he had sworn that he would not look towards TV. In anger, the elder brother stopped talking to his younger brother. The younger brother gathered all the family members

and started giving Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat, but the elder brother did not attend the Dars. One day he also sat close in order to hear what his younger brother was saying in the Dars. When he heard the Dars he was very impressed by it, thereafter he started attending Home Dars daily. The darkness of his heart was removed gradually and he started attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of the Dars he got rid of the company of heretics and started having a beard. Before [this reformation], he used to listen to the cassettes of the orator [Khateeb] with corrupt beliefs very enthusiastically, but now in place of them he has started listening to the cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches, released by Maktaba tul Madinah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would worship abundantly

Dear Islamic brothers! We should worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly especially in the blessed month of Ramadan and perform every such act that earns us the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If we do not attain forgiveness even in this blessed month then when will we attain it? Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be very much engrossed in Divine worship with the arrival of this blessed month.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said, ‘When the month of Ramadan would come, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and did not come to his luminous bed throughout the month.’ (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 449)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also spend the whole month of Ramadan in pleasing our Lord and worshiping Him. Surely the one who attains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ succeeds in the world and the Hereafter, and the blessed month of Ramadan is the best source of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is the month of great glory and dignity having countless features. One of them is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed the Holy Quran in this blessed month. In Ayah 185 of

Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated about the revelation of the Holy Quran and the month of Ramadan:

شَهْرُ رَمَضَانَ الَّذِیْۤ اُنْزِلَ فِیْهِ الْقُرْاٰنُ هُدًى لِّلنَّاسِ وَ بَیِّنٰتٍ مِّنَ الْهُدٰى وَ الْفُرْقَانِۚ-فَمَنْ شَهِدَ مِنْكُمُ الشَّهْرَ فَلْیَصُمْهُؕ-وَ مَنْ كَانَ مَرِیْضًا اَوْ عَلٰى سَفَرٍ فَعِدَّةٌ مِّنْ اَیَّامٍ اُخَرَؕ-یُرِیْدُ اللّٰهُ بِكُمُ الْیُسْرَ وَ لَا یُرِیْدُ بِكُمُ الْعُسْرَ٘-وَ لِتُكْمِلُوا الْعِدَّةَ وَ لِتُكَبِّرُوا اللّٰهَ عَلٰى مَا هَدٰىكُمْ وَ لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُوْنَ(۱۸۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The month of Ramadan in which was sent down the Quran - the guidance for mankind, the direction and the clear criterion (to judge between right and wrong). So whoever among you finds this month, must fast for the (whole) month; and whoever is sick or on a journey, may fast the same number in other days. Allah desires ease for you and does not desire hardship for you so that you complete the count (of fasts), and glorify Allah as He has guided you, and so that you may be grateful. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 185)

Dear Islamic brothers! In this blessed Ayah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also commanded us to observe Siyam in the blessed month of Ramadan. Remember! After admitting the oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Risalat and having faith in all the essentials of Islam the way Salah has been made obligatory for every Muslim, similarly, the Siyam of blessed Ramadan have also been made obligatory for every Muslim (man and woman) sane and the one who has reached puberty. It is stated in Durr-e-Mukhtar: Siyam were made obligatory on the 10 Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 2 Hijri. (Durr-e-Mukhtar ma’ Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 330)

Reason why Sawm was made obligatory

Dear Islamic brothers! Most of the acts in Islam have been fixed to remind us of some faith-refreshing events. For example, the Sa’ee of Hajis between Safa and Marwah reminds us of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She walked and ran between both these hills seven times in search of water for her Beloved

son Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loved this act of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, therefore to make this blessed Sunnah of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remain alive, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Sa’ee of Safa and Marwah Wajib for Hajjis and Umrah-performing people . In the same way, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spent some days of blessed Ramadan in the cave of Hira. During this period of time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would avoid eating during the day and get busy doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the night. Hence in order to remind us of these glorious days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Siyam obligatory so that the Sunnah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم continues to exist. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 935)

How strong is faith of Sawm-observing person!

Dear Islamic brothers! It is very hot, the throat and lips are getting dry due to thirst, water is available, but a Sawm-observing person does not even look at it; food is available, but he does not extend even his hand to it despite being very hungry. Just imagine, how strong the faith of this person is in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It is because he knows that his actions can be hidden from the entire world, but they cannot be concealed from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This belief of his in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the practical result of a perfect Sawm, because other acts of worship are performed by any apparent movements, but Sawm is related to internal [form of worship] whose state no one knows except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If he (Sawm observing person) eats and drinks something secretly, people will still feel that he is observing Sawm, however, he is protecting himself from eating and drinking only due to Divine fear. That is why the Sawm-observing people will be blessed with abundant gifts and rewards. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Sawm and rejoice:

1. Expiation for past sins

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who observes the Sawm of Ramadan, recognizes its limits and avoids the thing that should be avoided, so it will be the expiation for [the sins] which he has committed before.’ (Al-Ihsan bittarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 5, pp. 183, Hadees 3424)

2. Reward for observing Sawm

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Every righteous act of a man is rewarded ten to seven hundred times. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘ اِلَّا الصَّوۡمَ فَاِنَّهُ لِيۡ وَ اَنَا اَجۡزِيۡ بِهٖ ’ i.e. except Sawm because Sawm is for Me and I will give its reward Myself . A bondman refrains from eating and satisfying his desires only for My sake. There are two joys for a Sawm-observing person: One, at the time of Iftar and the other one when he meets his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The smell that comes from the mouth of a Sawm-observing person is purer than Musk [a special type of fragrance] in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 580, Hadees 1151)

3. Sawm is a shield

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sawm is a shield; when any of you is observing Sawm, he should neither utter words of indecency nor shout. Then if someone else abuses him or wants to fight against him, he should say, I am observing Sawm. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 624, Hadees 1894)

Special reward for Sawm

Dear Islamic brothers! In the abovementioned blessed Ahadees many features of observing Sawm have been stated. Very good news is for the Sawm-observing person who observes Sawm in a way as it should be observed, that is to say, if he protects all his body parts from committing sins besides avoiding eating, drinking and intercourse, so the Sawm by the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will become the expiation for all his past sins.

Moreover, the saying of the blessed Hadees has to be paid special attention in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has told us the blessed saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘ فَاِنَّهُ لِيۡ وَ اَ نَا اَجۡزِيۡ بِهٖ ’ i.e. Sawm is for Me and I will give its reward Myself. Some blessed Muhaddiseen [1] have also read this blessed saying of Hadees-e-Qudsi in the following manner ‘ اَنَا اُجۡزٰي بِه ٖ ’ as it is stated in

Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, then it will mean ‘ I am Myself the reward for the Sawm ’. سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه! i.e. After observing Sawm a Sawm-observing person finds Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ himself. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 945-947)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sleeping is also worship

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Abi Awfa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The sleep of a Sawm-observing person is worship and his silence is doing Tasbih [glorifying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] and his Du’a is answered and his deed is accepted.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 415, Hadees 3938)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How fortunate a Sawm-observing person is! His sleep is worship, silence is Tasbih of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Du’as and good deeds are accepted in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

تیرے کرم سے اے کریم! کون سی شے ملی نہیں

جھولی ہماری تنگ ہے تیرے یہاں کمی نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Body parts ’ doing Tasbi h

The mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The bondman who spends his morning observing Sawm, the doors of the sky are opened for him, his body parts make Tasbih [glorification of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] and the angels living in the sky of this world keep making Du’a for his forgiveness until sunset. If he offers one or two Rak’aat Salah, they become Noor for him in the skies and his wives amongst large-eyed Houris [Heavenly maidens] say, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ send him to us, we are very eager to see him and if he recites ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ ’ or

‘ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰه ’ or ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر ’, then seventy thousand angels keep writing rewards for him until sunset.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 299, Hadees 3591)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Look, how fortunate a Sawm-observing person is! The doors of the sky are opened for him and his body parts make Tasbih of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels living in the sky of this world make Du’a for his forgiveness until sunset. When he offers Salah, there is light for him in the sky and large-eyed Houris [heavenly maidens], who are appointed for him, wait for his arrival in Paradise. Further, if he says لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ ’ or ‘ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰه ’ or ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر ’, seventy thousand angels write reward for him until sunset. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 956)

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only will Sawm-observing people receive abundant mercy in the world, but they will also attain great status and rank in the Hereafter.

Gold Daster-Khuwan [dining mat]

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘On the Day of Judgement, a gold Daster-Khuwan [a dining mat] will be kept for Sawm-observing people, though people will be waiting [for their accountability].’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 214, Hadees 23640)

Heavenly fruits

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The one whom Sawm prevents from eating or drinking what he desires, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him eat from heavenly fruits and quench his thirst with heavenly wine.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 3917)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Aimmah Masajid

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool in order to know the greatness and status of the blessed month of Ramadan and to perform virtuous deeds abundantly. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is working approximately in 104 departments for serving Islam and propagating the call towards righteousness. One of them is ‘Aimmah Masajid’ that performs the task of appointing Aimmah and Muazzins for filling Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims and also fixes reasonable salaries for them so that these Islamic brothers propagate the call towards righteousness abundantly by being free from their financial problems.

Aimmah and Muazzins play a vital role in filling Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, blessed Aimmah, who are associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, keep Masajid filled with Salah-offering Muslims through Sada-e-Madinah, calling people towards Salah with Jama’at by making individual efforts on them, by Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, by making them attend Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah and by virtue of the blessing of the Madani Qafilahs of devotees of Rasool for learning Sunnahs. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves the one who loves Masjid. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 400, Hadees 6383)

‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: A person has to form the habit of sitting in the Masjid for the sake of the love for Masjid, observing I’tikaf in it for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, offering Salah, doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and teaching and learning Shar’i rulings. Allah’s love for the bondman is like that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him space under the shade of His mercy and gives him protection. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 6, pp. 112)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to travel with Madani Qafilahs as much as possible, fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat daily through pondering over the Hereafter and develop devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in our hearts by associating ourselves with this Madani environment!

ہوجائیں مولا مسجدیں آباد سب کی سب

سب کو نمازی دے بنا یا رَبِّ مُصطفٰے

اَحکامِ شَرع کا مجھے دے دے عمل کا شوق

پیکر خُلُوص کا بنا یا رَبِّ مُصطفٰے

Dear Islamic brothers! When the turn of receiving reward for deeds comes, Sawm-observing people will be rewarded beyond measure.

Immeasurable reward

Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that it was stated: On the Day of Judgement, a Munadi [someone who calls out] will call out like this: Every deed-performer will be rewarded equal to his deed/deeds except for Islamic scholars and Sawm-observing people as they will be rewarded beyond measure. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 413, Hadees 3928)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that what we sow in the world, we shall reap the same. Islamic scholars and Sawm-observing Muslims are very fortunate because they will be blessed with immeasurable reward on the Judgement Day.

Remember! When Sawm-observing people will start entering Paradise, they will also be given special honour at that time.

Heavenly door

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, there is a door in Heaven, called Rayyan [ رَیَّان ]. On the Day of Judgement, Sawm-observing people will enter through it; no one else except for them will enter. It will be asked, ‘Where are the Sawm-observing people?’ Hence these people will stand up; no one else will enter through this door except them. The door will be closed when they have entered. Hence no one else will enter through this door. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 625, Hadees 1896)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How fortunate the Swam-observing Muslims are! They will be given special honour on the Day of Judgement; they will have to go to Paradise. Other fortunate Muslims will also be entering Paradise in a large

number, but a Sawm-observing person will especially enter Paradise through ‘Bab-ur-Rayyan.’

Dear Islamic brothers! The way observing Sawm is an act of great excellence and privilege, similarly, not observing Sawm brings about deprivation and misfortune.

Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ مَنْ اَدْرَکَ رَمَضَانَ وَلَمْ یَصُمْهُ فَقَدْ شَقِیَ ’ the one who gets the month of Ramadan and does not observe Siyam of it, he is unfortunate . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 62, Hadees 3871)

Loss of missing one Sawm

If someone misses a single Sawm of Ramadan deliberately without any Shar’i reason, he cannot attain the excellence of that missing Sawm, though now he observes Sawm throughout his life.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who does not observe one Sawm of Ramadan without any Shar’i reason or without any illness, so the Sawm of [his] entire life cannot be its Qada, though he observes later on. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 638, Hadees 1934)

It means that in any way he cannot attain the excellence that can be attained by observing Sawm in the blessed month of Ramadan. Therefore, we should not miss the great blessing like the Sawm of Ramadan at all due to being heedless. We should fulfil the rights of this blessed month in a proper way lest we become deprived of forgiveness due to our negligence regarding the right of Ramadan. Remember! The one who remains deprived of forgiveness even in this month suffers a very big loss.

Be disgrace d!

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: May the person, in front of whom my Zikr is done but he does not recite Salat upon me, be disgraced! May the person, who finds the month of Ramadan, but the month leaves before he is forgiven, be

disgraced! May the person, with whom his parents attain old age, but they do not make him enter Paradise (i.e. that person does not attain Paradise by serving his old parents.), be disgraced! (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 61, Hadees 7455)

Dear Islamic brothers! We too should perform abundant acts of worship in the blessed month of Ramadan and perform virtuous deeds abundantly in order to accumulate the blessings and mercy of this blessed month and get the gift of forgiveness from the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Life is very short, therefore we should value these moments and instead of wasting the sacred moments of Ramadan in useless and bad activities we should try to spend them in reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and in other virtuous deeds.

Attain blessings of I’tikaf

Let’s have the privilege of observing I’tikaf for the whole month of Ramadan or at least the last 10 days which is arranged under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to increase the passion for respecting the blessed month of Ramadan, attain its abundant blessings, earn abundant virtuous deeds and protect ourselves from sins. The mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَنِ اعۡتَكَفَ اِيۡمَانًا وَّ اِحۡتِسَابًا غُفِرَلَهُ مَا تَقَدَّمَ مِنۡ ذَنۡبِهِ ’ i.e. whoever observes I’tikaf with faith and the intention to get reward, all of his previous sins will be forgiven.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 516, Hadees 8480)

I’tikaf for whole month

Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always worship abundantly for gaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly worship especially in the blessed month of Ramadan. Since Layla-tul-Qadr has been concealed in the month of Ramadan, the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once observed the I’tikaf for the entire month in order to search for this blessed night.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated, ‘Once after observing I’tikaf from the 1 st of Ramadan to the 20 th the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘In search of Layla-tul-Qadr, I observed the I’tikaf of the first ten days of the blessed month of Ramadan, then observed the I’tikaf of the middle ten days, then I was told that Layla-tul-Qadr is in the last ten days. Therefore, whoever amongst you wants to observe I’tikaf with me should do so.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 594, Hadees 1167)

Dear Islamic brothers! If not possible every year, we should observe I’tikaf for the entire month of Ramadan at least once in our life following this Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Staying in the Masjid is a very great privilege and an I’tikaf-observing person is so fortunate that he stays in the Masjid leaving all his activities in order to gain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It is stated in Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri: The virtues of I’tikaf are absolutely obvious, as in it a person completely devotes himself to worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for attaining His pleasure and gives up all the worldly affairs and activities that are obstacles to the closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . All of his time is spent in Salah or similar to the acts of Salah (because to wait for Salah also brings the reward like Salah.) The real purpose of observing I’tikaf is to wait for Salah with Jama’at and an I’tikaf-observing person resembles the angels who do not disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and obey whatever command they are given; he resembles those who glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night and never gets tired of it. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 212)

Sayyiduna ‘Ata Khurasani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: An I’tikaf-observing person is like the one who has reached the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and says, ‘O my glorious Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will not leave until You forgive me.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 426, Hadees 3970)

ہم سے فقیر بھی اب پھیری کو اُٹھتے ہوں گے اب تو غنی کے در پر بستر جما دِیے ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to book “Faizan-e-Ramadan”

Dear Islamic brothers! Save the sacred moments of the blessed month of Ramadan from wasting in useless and evil activities! Life is very short, therefore value it. Instead of wasting time in playing cards, listening to film songs and committing in many other types of sins try to spend it in reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Salat-Alan-Nabi.

In relation to this month, the study of the renowned book of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan ’ is very useful. This book contains abundant information about approximately all the important rulings related to blessed Ramadan such as Salah, Sawm, Taraweeh, I’tikaf and Eid-ul-Fitr. In addition, it also has countless Madani pearls. You also intend to study this book. This book has been translated into different languages of the world besides Urdu. This book can also be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . You also make intention to read this book as well as deliver Dars and listen to Dars from it.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners of I’tikaf

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about the Sunan and manners of I’tikaf. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever observes I’tikaf with faith and the intention to get reward, all of his previous sins will be forgiven. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 516, Hadees 8480)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one doing I’tikaf (for 10 days) in Ramadan is like the one who has performed Hajj and ‘Umrah twice. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 3966)

٭ I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan is ‘Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah ‘Alal Kifayah.’ (Durr-e-Mukhtar ma’ Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 430) This implies that if any one person from the whole city does I’tikaf, it will be sufficient for everyone (in the city) but if no body did it then everyone is blameworthy. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 5, pp. 152)

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ I’tikaf ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

٭ Observing Sawm is not a condition for Nafl I’tikaf and there is no time limit for it either. Whenever you enter a Masjid, make the intention of I’tikaf. (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 235; summarized)

٭ The most important purpose of doing I’tikaf in Ramadan is to search for Layla-tul-Qadr. (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 232)

٭ The best Masjid for I’tikaf is Masjid-ul-Haraam, then Masjid-un-Nabawi عَـلٰی صَاحِبِھَا الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, then Masjid-ul-Aqsa (Bayt-ul-Muqaddas) and then any Jaami’ Masjid where the five daily Salah are offered with Jama’at.

(Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 240)

٭ It is a special mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the Mu’takif will gain the reward of even such righteous deeds he used to do outside the Masjid but can no longer perform them due to I’tikaf. It is as if he is still performing them, and their reward will be recorded for him. For example, if an Islamic

brother used to visit sick people, but cannot do that due to I’tikaf he will still get its reward.

٭ Islamic sisters do I’tikaf in their Masjid-e-Bayt. (The place a woman specifies for Salah in her home is called Masjid-e-Bayt.) (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 289)

٭ A Mu’takif can exit the Masjid (boundaries) during I’tikaf due to the following two reasons: (1) Shar’i needs (2) Physical needs.

(Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 265)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

