Muballighah must read the bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Good Environment

Along with conditions of friendship

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed an angel to my grave who has been granted the power of hearing the voice of every creature. Hence, whosoever, until the Day of Judgement, recites Salat upon me, [the angel] presents that person’s name along with his father’s name to me. The angel says, ‘The so-and-so son of the so-and-so person has recited Salat upon you.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 251, Hadees 17291)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We have millions of favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our everyday life by virtue of which we live our life. One of them is ‘Good Environment and Good Society’ in which a Muslim tries to live her life as per the commandments of Islam. Let’s have the privilege to listen to something about this great favour.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Heart completely changed

Sayyiduna Hasan Bin Hadar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A person from Baghdad told me that Sayyiduna Abu Haashim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Once I intended to visit Basra and reached the shore so that I could catch a boat and set out for the destination. When I reached there, I saw a boat in which a maidservant and his master were on board. I also wanted to get on the boat, but the master of the maidservant said, ‘No one except us will sit in this boat; we have hired the whole boat, therefore you take some other boat.’ Having heard this, the maidservant said to her master, ‘Let this poor man get into the boat.’ As a result, the master of the maidservant allowed me to get into it and the boat started heading towards Basra. The weather was very pleasant. I was sitting separately from them in a corner and they were busy chatting and enjoying the beautiful weather. Then the master of the maidservant asked for food and a dining mat was laid out. When they both sat for eating the meal, they called me, ‘O poor man! You also come and have a meal with us.’ I was very hungry and had nothing to eat so I joined them at their invitation. When we finished the meal, that person asked for wine from his maidservant. The maidservant brought immediately the wine and he started drinking it. He then ordered a wine for me, I said, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you, I am

your guest and I have had meal with you, now I will not drink wine at all.’ He replied, ‘Well, as you wish.’ Under the influence of the wine, he asked his maidservant to bring Sarangi (a stringed instrument of India played with a bow) and sing him a song. The maidservant brought musical instrument and started singing a song. Her master kept listening to the song and rejoicing.

It continued for a long time; they both were intoxicated with the pleasure and I was busy with the Zikr of my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After a long time when his intoxication subsided, he turned to me and started saying: ‘Have you ever listened to a song better than this? Look, how beautifully she has sung the song! Can you sing in this manner?’ I replied, ‘I can recite such a Kalam for you before which this song has no worth.’ He surprisingly asked: ‘Is there any Kalam better than songs?’ I replied in the affirmative and said: ‘There is a Kalam much better than this song.’ He said, ‘If your claim is true then recite it for us. We also want to listen to the Kalam that is even better than songs?’ So I started reciting the following blessed Ayahs of Surah At-Takweer, part 30:

اِذَا الشَّمْسُ كُوِّرَتْﭪ(۱) وَ اِذَا النُّجُوْمُ انْكَدَرَتْﭪ(۲) وَ اِذَا الْجِبَالُ سُیِّرَتْﭪ(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When the sunlight is rolled up and when the stars fall down and when the mountains are driven.

(Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 1 to 3)

I kept reciting the Holy Quran and his condition kept changing. He started crying and kept listening to the Holy Quran with undivided attention and humbleness. It seemed as if the Tajalliyat of Divine Kalam had illuminated his dark heart and this Kalam had greatly affected his heart. Now he was becoming acquainted with the pleasure of Divine love. Reciting the Holy Quran when I reached the following blessed Ayah:

وَ اِذَا الصُّحُفُ نُشِرَتْﭪ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when the Records of Account are laid bare. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 10)

He said to his maidservant, ‘I free you for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ then he poured all the containers of wine into the sea, broke all musical instruments and things of amusement and humbly came close to me, hugged me and started sobbing and asked: ‘O my brother! I am very sinful; I have spent my entire life in committing sins; if I repent now, will Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept my repentance?’ I treated him with love and replied, ‘Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much those who repent and attain purity; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very pleased with those who repent; no one returns empty-handed from the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . You repent from Him, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will surely accept [your repentance].

So that person repented of all of his past sins in front of me and kept on seeking forgiveness abundantly in tears. We then reached Basra and became friend for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . For forty years, we lived like brothers. After forty years he passed away, I was very grieved over his demise. Then, one night I saw him in my dream, I asked, ‘O my brother! What happened to you after departing this life and where is your abode?’ He replied in a very sweet voice, ‘My Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent me to Paradise after I had left the world.’ I asked, ‘O my brother! For what deed have you been blessed with Paradise?’ He replied, ‘When you recited this blessed Ayah for me,

وَ اِذَا الصُّحُفُ نُشِرَتْﭪ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when the Records of Account are laid bare. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 10)

by virtue of its blessing transformation took place in my life and by virtue of it I have been forgiven and Paradise has been bestowed upon me.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 305)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how a blessed company of a righteous person prevented a person, who used to take pleasure in committing sins, from committing sins and thus he started performing virtuous deeds after

repenting of his sinful life. He had realized that his salvation was in the blessed company and companionship of that righteous person. He became the friend of the same righteous person for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that by its blessing the rest of his days could be safe from the curse of sins. Finally, this person who had the good company for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accomplished his aim and departed this life by staying safe from sins and protecting his Iman [faith].

خوب خدمت سُنّتوں کی ہم سدا کرتے رہیں

مدنی ماحول اے خدا ہم سے نہ چھُوٹے عمر بھر

Recognizing good environment

Dear Islamic sisters! This world is divided into races, colours, different kinds of civilizations and classes. Every person from every class, civilization, colour and race considers herself to be the best person of the society and beats the drum for her own eminence and superiority, but remember, the best society and a good environment are the ones which are based on fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, piety, virtue and abstinence, in which people love one another for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and take care of one another’s rights and those who belong to them are the people of good character. If someone has their company, she becomes like them. Surely wise is she who recognizes such a good environment and becomes its part and leads a pure life like the other people of this environment.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is a great blessing for us. It is not hidden from anyone that by virtue of the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, countless people, who deviated from the straight path, have become the embodiment of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A large number of people are aware of the measures taken by Dawat-e-Islami for the reform of the society and scholarly, practical and moral Tarbiyyat (edification) of the youth. Let’s associate ourselves with this fragrant Madani environment along with our children. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will get abundant worldly and Hereafter benefits.

Advantages of good environment

Remember! The person who adopts good environment not only gains its benefits herself, but she also benefits others. It can be understood by this example that a bee instead of having filthy and dirty environment like other flies has good environment; it has the company of fruits and flowers in a garden. As a result, honey is produced which brings countless benefits. In Ayah 69 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یَخْرُ جُ مِنْۢ بُطُوْنِهَا شَرَابٌ مُّخْتَلِفٌ اَلْوَانُهٗ فِیْهِ شِفَآءٌ لِّلنَّاسِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: From their bellies comes a drink of various colours, in which is health for mankind. (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, Ayah 69)

Obviously, these are the blessings of good environment. It has become obvious that the people who are associated with good environment are not only commendable themselves, but they also benefit others. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ خَيۡرُ النَّاسِ اَنۡفَعُهُمۡ لِلنَّاسِ ’ The best amongst people is the one who brings most benefits to them.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 222, Hadees 5787)

Dear Islamic sisters! If a person is associated with a good environment, it reforms her inside and outside both because good environment provides good company and everyone knows that a good company makes a person good too after having its influence on her. ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Roomi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

صُحبتِ صالِح تُرا صالِح کُنَند صُحبتِ طالِح تُرا طالِح کُنَند

I.e. company of good will make you good and company of bad will make you bad.

عطائے حبیبِ خدا مدنی ماحول ہے فیضانِ غوث و رضاؔ مدنی ماحول

Though good company regardless of being brief, carries abundant benefits.

Excellence of attending Majlis of Zikr

Sahih Muslim contains a long blessed Hadees which has good news for those who form Halqah for Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make Zikr of their True Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ after gathering. In the end of this blessed Hadees, the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ فَيَقُوۡلُوۡنَ رَبِّ فِيۡهِمۡ فُلَانٌ عَبۡدٌ خَطَّاءٌ اِنَّمَا مَرَّ فَجَلَسَ مَعَهُمۡ ’ i.e., Angels humbly say (in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ): O Merciful Rab! Amongst them so-and-so [person] was a big sinner; when he passed by them (i.e. those who were making Zikr), he sat with them. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ stated, ‘ وَلَه ٗ غَفَرۡتُ هُمُ الۡقَوۡمُ لَا يَشۡقٰي بِهِمۡ جَلِيۡسُهُمۡ ’ i.e., I have also forgiven him [because] it is such a nation [of making Zikr] that the one who sits with them is not unfortunate either.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1444, Hadees 2689)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how beneficial the company of virtuous people is! If a sinful person sits with them, she does not get deprived of Divine mercy either! So when the person who has good company for a moment, does not get deprived of Divine mercy, how can the fortunate, who associate themselves with Sunnah-inspiring righteous environment forever, be deprived of Divine mercy?

Similarly, Sayyiduna Abu Razeen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Shall I not guide you through the essence of that thing by which you get goodness of the world and the Hereafter (hence that real thing is that) you attend the gathering of those who make Zikr and when you are alone, keep moving your tongue with the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as far as you can and love in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and have enmity in the way [for the sake] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 492, Hadees 9024)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It refers to the gatherings of Islamic scholars, perfect blessed saints and righteous and pious people because these gatherings are the gardens of Paradise. It is stated in another blessed Hadees:

No matter whether these gatherings are from Madaris or the gatherings for delivering Dars of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees or the gatherings of blessed Sufiya [mystics]’s Zikr, this saying is very comprehensive and covers all. The gathering that develops fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, devotion to the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and eagerness of obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is useful. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 603)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Companionship of bad people

Dear Islamic sisters! As a matter of fact, we should associate ourselves with good environment for the good of the world and the Hereafter and have the company of righteous Islamic sisters and establish friendship with them, but unfortunately, the love for sins has blackened our inside. Today our condition is that we avoid good people and bear malice towards them, but after leaving their company we have the company of such people who not only keep us away from virtuous deeds, but sometimes they also make us commit abundant sins. It is very necessary to refrain from the company and friendship of such people.

Have only good company

It will be a great privilege if we have the blessed company of sincere bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotees of Rasool.

By virtue of their closeness and the blessing of calling towards righteousness presented to us from time to time by them we will get other benefits as well as our sins will also be cured, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Remember! We should only have good company and keep ourselves away from bad people. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The example of a good and bad companion is like the one who carries Musk (i.e. Kastoori) and the one who blows the bellows into furnace. The one who carries musk will either gift you or you will buy from him or you will have pleasant fragrance from him, whereas the one who blows the bellows into furnace

either will burn your clothes or you will have unpleasant smell from him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1414, Hadees 2628)

Examples of immediate influences of company

Dear Islamic sisters! Every company surely has its influence. For example if you meet an Islamic sister whose eyes are filled with tears and signs of sorrow are evident on her face due to the death of her dear one, so by seeing her in this state you may also feel sad for a while. Moreover, if you sit with any such Islamic sister whose face is lighting up with pleasure due to a success, who is smiling and her blissful talk is showing gladness then you will also become happy for some time inadvertently.

Influences of good and bad company

Similarly, if someone has the company of such people who are totally heedless of Fikr-e-Aakhirat and do not feel any kind of hesitation in committing sins, so there is a strong possibility that she will also become like them very soon. If someone has the company of devotees of Rasool whose hearts are filled with Fikr-e-Madinah (contemplation of the Hereafter), who are busy all the time trying to reform themselves for the success of the Hereafter and who weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so there is a great hope that the same conditions will also influence the heart of this person, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic sisters! You do not need to worry at all about good Madani environment. Associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. By virtue of its blessing, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ highly exalted moral virtues will keep on becoming the part of your character un-knowingly. Every Islamic sister should attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami held in her own city .

اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of attending these Ijtima’aat, we will have the opportunity to ponder over our past way of life and our heart will become restless for the betterment of the Hereafter and as a result we will feel ashamed of abundance of sins and be privileged to make repentance.

As a result of attending weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, we will have the invocations of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi on our lips instead of foul language and useless talks and our tongues will become habitual of reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Na’ats. We will get the enthusiasm or passion for gentleness in place of anger, patience and forbearance in place of impatience, humbleness and respect for a Muslim in place of arrogance.

We will get rid of the greed for worldly possessions and wealth and will attain the greed for virtuous deeds. Islamic sisters should also regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Islamic sisters held in their own city.

Monthly Tarbiyyati Halqah—One of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain the enthusiasm for virtuous deeds and get rid of sins and become the one who takes part in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

One of the 8 Madani Activities of Zayli Halqah is “Monthly Tarbiyyati Halqah”. This Tarbiyyati Halqah is arranged on the Third Thursday of every month at area or city level (Duration: Maximum 2 hours). In this Tarbiyyati Halqah Ghusl, Wudu (ablution), Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as and Shar’i rulings related to Islamic sisters are taught as per method prescribed by the Madani Markaz. Furthermore, the invocations of Shajarah ‘Attariyyah are also being memorized. You are also requested to avail the privilege of attending these Tarbiyyati Halqahs and try to mould your life according to Sunnahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessings of attending Tarbiyyati Halqahs and reciting Blessed Shajarah entails many blessings. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

Family quarrels got patched up

An Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) had lots of discord at home. The tension was building up day by day. They had quarrels quite often due to which there was no pleasant environment at home. Due to this situation, she was very worried. There was no way of creating a pleasant environment at home. In the meantime, she had the idea of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah from ‘Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah’. She started reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah with the intention to get rid of family discord. By virtue of the blessings of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah her family quarrels got patched up and a peaceful environment was created at her home.

مشکلیں حل کر شہِ مُشکل کُشا کے واسِطے

کر بَلائیں رَد شہیدِ کربَلا کے واسِطے

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before having the company of any person we should think whether we should have her company or not because it is stated in blessed Tirmizi: A man is on the religion of his friend so he should see who he is establishing friendship with. (Tirmizi, chapter 45, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy protecting Muslims from sins and taking them to the virtuous path all over the world. It is busy making efforts in presenting call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments in order to propagate this Madani activity further. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. The main aim of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing and to persuade them to act upon the Madani

In’amaat. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May all the Islamic brothers and sisters act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate these Madani In’amaat in their Halqahs, areas, cities, villages, goths (small villages) so that every Muslim practises them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the greatest reward of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s all make intention that we will not only try to act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Farewell to the month of Ramadan

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed month of Ramadan came to us with mercy and blessings and now it will depart soon. Alas! We could not fulfil the rights of this month. Ah! With its departure, the eagerness and enthusiasm of acts of worship will also be reduced.

تیرے آنے سے دِل خوش ہوا تھا اور ذوقِ عبادت بڑھا تھا

آہ اب دل پہ ہے غم کا غَلَبہ اَلوَدَاع اَلوَدَاع ماہِ رمضاں

Let’s valuing the rest of the blessed moments of Ramadan try to perform more virtuous deeds and make this intention too that we will try to retain the passion for worship that we have gained in the blessed month of Ramadan in the remaining 11 months of the year especially on the occasion of blessed Eid, instead of wasting all our Ramadan efforts by committing sins we will try to spend these delightful moments as per the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Generally, people become busy shopping for Eid as soon as the moon of Eid-ul-Fitr is sighted and hence they become deprived of the blessings of the worship of the night of Eid.

Remember! There is good news of very huge reward for the one who worships in the night of Eid that we spend heedlessly. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard.

Worship performed during Eid night

1 The person who worships in the night of two Eids (i.e., night of Eid-ul-Fitr & night of Eid-ul-Adha) for gaining reward, his heart will not die on the Day when hearts [of people] will die. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 1782)

2 The one spending the following five nights worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Heaven becomes Wajib for him: the nights of the 8 th, 9 th and 10 th Zul-Hijjah (3 nights), the night of Eid-ul-Fitr and the 15th night of Sha’ban (Shab-e-Bara`at). (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 98, Hadees 2)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Siyam of 6 days of Shawwal after Eid-ul-Fitr

Dear Islamic sisters! Make this intention too that we will try to observe Nafl Siyam after Ramadan in order to gain further blessings which we have gained by observing the Siyam of blessed Ramadan. We will try our best especially to observe 6 Siyam of Shawwal. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of 6 Siyam of Shawwal:

1 One who observes Siyam in Ramadan and then observes for 6 days in Shawwal comes out of sins as if his mother has given birth to him today.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, Hadees 5102)

2 One who observes the Siyam of Ramadan and then after them observes 6 in Shawwal so it is as if he has observed Sawm for entire life. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 1164)

3 One who observes 6 Siyam (in Shawwal) after Eid-ul-Fitr, has observed the Siyam of the whole year because the one who brings one virtue will get ten. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 1715)

Tenfold reward for one virtue

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become very easy to earn the reward for Siyam of the whole year by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for the sake of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Every Muslim should have this privilege. The wisdom behind the reward for one year is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by His grace, bestows tenfold reward to his bondmen for one virtue.

In Ayah 160 of Surah Al-An’aam, part 8, it is stated:

مَنْ جَآءَ بِالْحَسَنَةِ فَلَهٗ عَشْرُ اَمْثَالِهَاۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: For one who brings one good deed, are ten like it. (Part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 160)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Hence, the Siyam of the month of Ramadan are equal to the Siyam of 10 months and six Siyam are equal to 60 Siyam (2 months). In this way, the reward for the Siyam of the whole year can be obtained, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

When should Siyam of Shash Eid be observed?

Dear Islamic sisters! In the footnote of Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is better that these Siyam be observed with gaps and if 6 Siyam are observed consecutively after Eid, even then there is no harm. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 140)

Mufti Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qaadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: If these Siyam are observed consecutively after Eid, even then there is no harm, but it is better to observe them with gaps i.e., 2 Siyam in every week and 1 Sawm on the second day of Eid-ul-Fitr and if one observes [these Siyam] during the whole month, it seems even more suitable. (Sunni Bihishti Zaywar, pp. 347)

In short! With the exception of Eid-ul-Fitr day, Siyam of Shish Eid can be observed whenever you want during the whole month.

Madani pearls for those acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever walks on a path in search of knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes the path to Paradise easy for him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1448, Hadees 2699)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever leaves his home for acquiring knowledge, he is in the path of Allah until he returns. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 295, Hadees 2656)

٭ Travelling for acquiring Islamic knowledge is a blessed practice of our pious predecessors. (40 Farameen-e-Mustafa, pp. 23)

٭ Through knowledge, human life becomes pleasant and successful, and our worldly life and the Hereafter both get better. This knowledge refers to knowledge which is obtained from the Quran and Hadees.

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

