اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Every Type of Intoxication is Haraam

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When the day of Thursday arrives, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends angels who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They record those who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday). (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 1, pp. 184, Hadees 688)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Unfortunately, a number of people in our society have fallen into the evil habit of taking different types of drugs. These drugs are extremely destructive for one’s religion and faith, life and wealth and for health. Alas! Some lose their senses due to the intoxication of alcohol, some are destroying their lives by taking the hemp drug [bhang], opium, cannabis resin [Charas], etc. Furthermore, a number of people smoke cigarettes, chew betel leaves [pan], Gutkha, Mainpuri, etc. The main reason for using these things is due to company of bad friends (drug-addicted friends), increasing unemployment, inflation, lack of Islamic knowledge and having no knowledge of the warnings mentioned in the Holy Quran and Hadees. Remember! Some of the above-mentioned things such as betel leaves, Gutkha, Mainpuri, etc. are not intoxicating, but they are harmful to the health. Let’s listen to the destructions of those things which are injurious to the health and intoxicating so that our new generation can keep themselves far away from such things by listening to disadvantages they cause in this world as well as in the Hereafter, then perhaps those who are taking drugs can try to protect themselves from the deadly effects of drugs. Let’s listen to a parable first:

In the famous book ‘Ihya-ul-Uloom’, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Zakariyyah Ghalabi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: One night I went to Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He wanted to return home after offering Maghrib Salah. All of a sudden, a person who was intoxicated appeared in front of him while pulling a woman towards himself by taking her arm. When the woman called out for help, people gathered to punish him. Having seen the young man, Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recognized him and said to the people: Leave my nephew alone. He then said: O my nephew! Come to me. So the young man started feeling ashamed. He then stepped forward and hugged him and said to him: Come with me. That man started walking with him and both reached the home of Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who told one of his servants, ‘Let him sleep in your room for tonight.’ When he comes to his senses, inform him of what he has done and do not let him go but bring him to me. When he came to his senses, the servant told him the entire story due to which he was extremely ashamed and started weeping and intended

to leave. The servant then said: Hadrat has ordered me to take you to him. After bringing him to Hadrat, Hadrat asked him: Do you not feel ashamed of yourself and the family you come from? Do you not know who your father is? Fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and stop what you are doing. Lowering his head, that young man started weeping and then raising his head and said: I promise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: The thing for which I will be questioned about on the Day of Judgement that I will never consume anything intoxicating again, nor will I ill-treat any woman and I make repentance to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Sayyiduna Ibn-e-’Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Come to me. Kissing his forehead he said: O my son! It is very good that you have repented. Thereafter, that young man started attending his gatherings and writing blessed Hadees from him.

شرابِ مَحَبَّت کچھ ایسی پِلا دے

مجھے اپنا عاشق بنا کر بنا دے

کبھی بھی نشہ ہو نہ کم یا اِلٰہی

تُو سر تا پا تصویرِ غم یا اِلٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! Drug addiction is a very evil thing that tempts a person to do many immoral activities and disgraces him everywhere. Remember! Intoxication wastes the human intellect; it causes a person to perform acts of disobedience by making him heedless of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It breaks the barrier of thinking rationally and the addict causes harm to people, he verbally or physically abuses them and engages in arguments; it eliminates the difference between good and evil and relatives from strangers. A person مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, cannot distinguish between his wife and sister. Due to this addiction, he not only disobeys his parents, who brings him up and takes care of his needs, his parents who try and keep him away from every type of sorrow throughout life, sacrifice their desires for his desires, keep dear his pleasure before their pleasure by enduring lots of sufferings, the addict insults and oppresses them . In this way, a person starts continuously committing sins.

Unfortunately, in our society, where many other types of evils are being committed, drug addiction has also taken root. Nowadays, there are a large number of people who have fallen into the evil habit of drug addiction. Whether they are men or women, old or young or very young, rich or poor,

officers or employees, traders or farmers, literate or illiterate, in short, countless people belonging to different professions, classes and ages have been badly trapped in the curse of drug addiction. Different types of intoxications such as hemp drug [bhang], opium, cannabis resin [Charas], intoxicating injections and alcohol, etc. are becoming very common day by day. Alas! How foolish a man is! On the one hand, he is ruining his life, wealth and honour, on the other hand, he is disobeying and displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Spending money for useless things and ruining one’s life has been clearly forbidden in the Holy Quran. It is stated in Ayah 27 of Surah Bani Israel, part 15:

وَ لَا تُبَذِّرۡ تَبۡذِیۡرًا ﴿۲۶﴾ اِنَّ الۡمُبَذِّرِیۡنَ کَانُوۡۤا اِخۡوَانَ الشَّیٰطِیۡنِ ؕ وَ کَانَ الشَّیۡطٰنُ لِرَبِّہٖ کَفُوۡرًا ﴿۲۷﴾

And do not waste needlessly. Indeed those who needlessly waste are brothers of the devils; and the devil is very ungrateful to his Lord.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 27)

Furthermore, it is stated in Ayah 195 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

وَ لَا تُلۡقُوۡا بِاَیۡدِیۡکُمۡ اِلَی التَّہۡلُکَۃِ ۚۖۛ

And do not fall into ruin with your own hands.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 195)

Dear Islamic brothers! Islam has taken great care of the profit and loss of its followers and has enjoined them to stay safe from those things which are harmful from religious and worldly perspectives, Islam encourages beneficial things. Therefore, the use of intoxicating things is also extremely disliked and prohibited as drug addiction brings about destruction and wastage. It is also a

collection of many medical and social defects and evils from a worldly and religious perspective.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran:

یٰۤاَیُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡۤا اِنَّمَا الۡخَمۡرُ وَ الۡمَیۡسِرُ وَ الۡاَنۡصَابُ وَ الۡاَزۡلَامُ رِجۡسٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِ الشَّیۡطٰنِ فَاجۡتَنِبُوۡہُ لَعَلَّکُمۡ تُفۡلِحُوۡنَ ﴿۹۰﴾

O People who Believe! Wine (all intoxicants), and gambling, and idols, and the darts are impure - the works of Satan, therefore keep avoiding them so that you may succeed.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 7, Surah Al-Mai’dah, Ayah 90)

The curse of intoxication can be judged by this that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has even forbidden us from going near the great worship like Salah whilst in the state of intoxication. It is stated:

یٰۤاَیُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡا لَا تَقۡرَبُوا الصَّلٰوۃَ وَ اَنۡتُمۡ سُکٰرٰی

O People who Believe! Do not approach the prayer when you are intoxicated.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 5, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 43)

Intoxicating things have been strictly forbidden in many blessed Ahadees in addition to the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to 4 blessed Ahadees in this regard:

1. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: ‘ نھٰی رَسُولُ اللَّهِ صَلَّى اللهُ عَلَيْہِ وَسَلَّمَ عَنْ كُلِّ مُسْكِرٍ وَمُفَتِّرٍ ’, i.e. the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden everything that brings about intoxication and creates disturbance. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 461, Hadees 3686)

1. The Merciful Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘ مَا اَسْكَرَ كَثِيْرُهُ، فَقَلِيْلُهُ حَرَامٌ ’ ‘Anything that causes intoxication when consumed in a high quantity is also Haraam in a small quantity.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 459, Hadees 3681)

2. Once a person, who would live in a cold region, came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! We live on a cold land and do hard work there and make a drink from the wheat through which we gain strength for our work and to overcome the coldness of our area. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Is that (drink) intoxicating? He replied: Yes. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Stay away from it. He humbly said: People will not stop drinking it. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If they do not stop, then physically go against them. (Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 460, Hadees 3683)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ لَيَشْرَبَنَّ نَاسٌ مِنْ اُمَّتِي الْخَمْرَ يُسَمُّونَهَا بِغَيْرِ اِسْمِهَا ’ i.e. Some people of my Ummah will certainly drink alcohol, by changing its name. (Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 461, Hadees 3688) Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The thing that brings about intoxication, regardless of being liquid like alcohol (etc.) or solid like opium, hemp drug (bhang), cannabis resin (Charas), etc. are Haraam. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 5, pp. 329) Therefore, it is necessary to stay safe from every type of intoxication. If only we could get rid of worldly intoxications and attain the true love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

رہوں مست وبے خُود میں تیری وِلا میں

پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard that intoxication is Haraam in the light of the Holy Quran and Hadees. Let’s listen to some warnings about this in the light of blessed Ahadees so that we can develop the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our hearts and we can protect ourselves and our society from this evil.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ اِجْتَنِبُوا الْخَمْرَ فَاِنَّهَا مِفْتَاحُ كُلِّ شَـرٍّ ’ ‘Refrain from alcohol as it is the key to every evil.’ (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 201, Hadees 7313)

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that he heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم say: ‘ اُمُّ الْخَبائث ’ Refrain from the mother of evils (alcohol) because, in the time of the Bani Israel, there was a very pious man who used to live in seclusion. A woman fell in love with him and she sent her maidservant requesting him to become a witness in a certain case. The man went to her home. As he entered, the doors were shut behind him, until he was in front of a very beautiful and elegant lady. A boy was standing beside her and there was a glass jug containing alcohol. The woman said, ‘I have not called you here to give any evidence. Instead, I want you to murder this boy, or indulge in fornication with me or drink this wine, and if you would refuse, I will shout out and disgrace you.’ The man thought that he had no option of getting out of this difficult situation, so he chose to drink the alcohol. The lady made him drink the wine. Out of intoxication, he kept on asking for more and more. He continued drinking until he committed fornication with the woman and also murdered the boy.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said, ‘Therefore, refrain from alcohol. Iman (faith) and the habit of drinking alcohol cannot coexist in one’s heart; soon, one removes the other.’

(Ibn Habbaan, vol. 7, pp. 367, Hadees 5324)

On one occasion, talking about the warnings of consuming alcohol the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Every intoxicating thing is alcohol, every intoxicating thing is Haraam and the person who drinks an intoxicating thing, his Salah of forty days will be reduced. Then if he repents, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts his repentance. (Furthermore, about the person who repents again and again and then commits the same sin, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said) If he repeats it a fourth time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the right to make him drink from طِيۡنَةُ الۡخَبَال . It was asked, ‘What is طِيۡنَةُ الۡخَبَال ?’ He replied, ‘The pus of the dwellers of Hell. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 459, Hadees 3680)

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has cursed 10 people with regard to alcohol: (1) The producer (2) The one ordering its production (3) The drinker (4) One who carries it (5) The one who orders to carry it (6) One who serves it (7) The seller (8) The one who consumes its price (9) The buyer (10) The one for whom it is bought. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 47, Hadees 1299)

Sayyiduna Abu ‘Umamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: Taking an oath on My Honour! My slave who drinks even a sip of alcohol, I will make him drink pus equal to the same amount and the slave who refrain from it out of fear for Me, I will make him drink from Haud-e-Qudus.

(Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 286, Hadees 22281)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those fortunate Muslims who abstain from intoxicating drinks (alcohol), for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this world, will be made to drink a pure (non-intoxicating) alcoholic drink in Paradise. After drinking this pure alcoholic drink, they will neither feel dizzy nor nauseas, nor will they vomit and fall unconscious. How will that wine be? Listen: It is stated in Ayah 25 to 28 of Surah Al-Mutaffifeen, part 30:

یُسۡقَوۡنَ مِنۡ رَّحِیۡقٍ مَّخۡتُوۡمٍ ﴿ۙ۲۵﴾ خِتٰمُہٗ مِسۡکٌ ؕ وَ فِیۡ ذٰلِکَ فَلۡیَتَنَافَسِ الۡمُتَنَافِسُوۡنَ ﴿ؕ۲۶﴾ وَ مِزَاجُہٗ مِنۡ تَسۡنِیۡمٍ ﴿ۙ۲۷﴾ عَیۡنًا یَّشۡرَبُ بِہَا الۡمُقَرَّبُوۡنَ ﴿ؕ۲۸﴾

They will be given pure wine to drink, which is kept preserved, sealed. Its seal is upon musk; and for this should those who crave be eager. And it is mixed with Tasneem. The spring from which drink the ones close to Allah.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 30, Surah Al-Mutaffifeen, Ayah 25-28)

In the commentary ‘Noor-ul-Irfan’, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated regarding these Ayahs: ‘ رَحِیْقٍ مَّخْتُوْم ’ There are other alcohols besides alcohol Tahoor that is packed in bottles. There will be a stream of alcohol Tahoor.

Alcohol Tahoor will be given to those who refrain from the worldly wine. This alcohol ‘ رَحِیْقٍ مَّخْتُوْم ’ will be the reward of devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The devotees must have drunk the alcohol of this devotion in the world that had the seal of Shari’at. Therefore, they will be given this sealed alcohol over there as well. Three kinds of alcoholic drinks will be in Paradise: (1) ‘ شَرَاباً طَہُوْرَا ’ the stream of which will reach every home. (2) ‘ رَحِیْقٍ مَّخْتُوْم ’ that will be packed in bottles. (3) ‘ تَسْنِیْم ’ some drops of which will be mixed with ‘ رَحِیْقٍ مَّخْتُوْم ’ for fragrance. Abrar (the pious people) will drink Raheeq-e-Makhtoom and Muqarrabeen (people close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) will drink the pure Tasneem.

In the commentary ‘Noor-ul-Irfan’, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further mentioned: Ordinary dwellers of Jannah will be given alcohol Tahoor or Raheeq-e-Makhtoom after putting some drops, but the Muqarrabeen will always drink pure Tasneem, because the springs of Tasneem will be in their homes. The taste and fragrance of Tasneem are beyond the thought of creation (people), اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will know about it after they have drunk it. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with it! (Noor-ul-Irfan, pp. 974)

شرابِ مَحَبَّت کچھ ایسی پِلا دے

مجھے اپنا عاشق بنا کر بنا دے

کبھی بھی نشہ ہو نہ کم یا اِلٰہی

تُو سرتاپا تصویرِ غم یا اِلٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! In the light of the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, we have heard severe warnings of drinking alcoholic drinks. Furthermore, it has also been learnt that alcohol is such a worst thing due to which a drinker will have to drink pus on the Day of Judgement. Let’s listen to some medical and social disadvantages of drinking alcohol, whether it’s hemp drug or opium etc.

Some disadvantages of consuming alcoholic drinks are given below: (1) Due to consuming alcoholic drinks, millions of people are suffering from deadly diseases. (2) Hundreds of thousands of people are dying due to consuming alcoholic drinks. (3) The cause of many road accidents is due to also driving was drunk. (4) Thousands of innocent people are being killed and plundered by drunkards. (5) Hundreds of thousands of women become victims of the cruelty of drunk husbands and ‘ مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ many women also start committing this grave sin and become deserving of Hell. اَلْاَمَانْ وَالْحَفِیْظ

In addition to these, the destruction of generations, laziness, depravity, breakup of families, shattering of dreams and the loss of mental capabilities etc. are also included in the disadvantages/harms of alcoholic drinks. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless Muslims with good sense and guidance and bestow salvation upon them from the evil disaster of consuming alcoholic drinks.

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, part 7, 3/22-23)

گنہ کرتے ہوئے گر مر گیا تو کیا کروں گا میں

مسلماں ہوں اگر چہ بد ہوں، سچّے دل سے کرتا ہوں

تُو بس رہنا سدا راضی، نہیں ہے تابِ ناراضی

عطا کر عافیت تُو نَزع و قَبر وحَشر میں یا ربّ

بنے گا ہائے میرا کیا کرم فرما کرم مولیٰ

ترے ہر حکم کے آگے سرِ تسلیم خم مولیٰ

تُو نا خوش جس سے ہو برباد ہے تیری قسم مولیٰ

وسیلہ فاطِمہ زَہرا کا کر لطف و کرم مولیٰ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Similarly, taking the hemp drug also has many disadvantages. Hemp makes the body parts insensitive. ‘Allamah Ibn-e-Hajar Makki Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Some Islamic scholars have said: There are 120 worldly and religious disadvantages if it is consumed. Some of them are as follows:

(1) The hemp drug makes a person think cheaply. (2) It dries the natural fluids. (3) It causes the body to suffer from different diseases. (4) Due to it a person develops the disease of forgetfulness. (5) He feels dizzy. (6) It terminates one’s offspring. (7) He becomes impotent. (8) Hemp drug causes sudden death, (9) corrupts and wastes the intellect. (10) It causes TB and (11) dropsy (the disease in which the belly swells and a person feels very thirsty). (12) His thought and ideologies are spoilt. (13) A person becomes heedless of the Zikr (remembrance) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (14) He reveals secrets and (15) commits evil deeds. (16) He becomes shameless. (17) He shows off a lot. (18) He gets deprived of love. (19) Due to the hemp drug, he becomes senseless in a way that sometimes his Satr (i.e. the parts of the body that are mandatory to be concealed) becomes exposed. (20) He loses his honour and (21) wisdom. (22) He becomes a companion of Iblees. (23) He becomes negligent in offering Salah (24) and commits Haraam acts. (25) He suffers from leukoderma and (26) leprosy. (27) He constantly remains ill and (28) also suffers from everlasting flu. (29) Due to the hemp drug, the liver is badly affected, (30) the mouth gets smelly (31) teeth decay. (32) A person’s eyelashes fall off, (33) the teeth become yellow (34) and eyesight gets weak. (35) He feels lazy, (36) and sleeps more than usual. (37) It causes laziness in his work. (38) Due to the hemp drug, a strong man becomes weak, (39) a respectable man gets disgraced, (40) a healthy man gets ill and (41) a brave man becomes a coward. (42) A person becomes very cruel. (43) If he is given food, it does not satisfy his appetite. (44) If he is granted something, he does not give thanks. (45) If he is advised, he does not act upon it. (46) The hemp drug makes an expert speaker dumb and (47) an intelligent person silly. (48) It ends one’s intelligence, (49) brings about impotence and (50) curses. (51) It distances a person from Paradise and (52) makes a person forget the Kalimah Shahadah at the time of death. (Jahannam mayn lay jaanay walay A’maal, 1/692-693)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

تُوْبُوْاۤاِلَی اللہ اَسْتَغْفِرُ اللہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Having mentioned these evils and harmful effects of the hemp drug, Allamah Ibn-e-Hajar Makki Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: All these evils are also found in opium etc., or rather opium etc. contains more evils than the hemp drug, because the face of the person who smokes opium gets deformed. It can be observed from the one who smokes it and strange things can be observed by the condition of that person such as: (1) By smoking opium a person’s body and (2) intellect are spoilt (3) he becomes cruel, worn out and deformed. (4) People who are addicted to opium, never follow the right path. (5) They only move towards those things which destroy their manners and honour. (Jahannam may lay jaanay walay A’maal, 1/693)

May we be able to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and have special mercy on our society! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make our society free of narcotics (drugs) and protect us from His disobeying Him!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

لمحہ لمحہ بڑھ رہی ہیں ہائے! نا فرمانیاں

اور گناہوں کی نہیں جاتی ہے عادت یا رسول

نیکیوں میں یا رسولَ الله دل لگ جائے کاش!

اور گناہوں سے مجھے ہو جائے نفرت یا رسول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Alcohol, hemp drug, etc. have lots of harmful effects. If they are not intoxicating, even then it is a sin to use them. Let’s listen to a question and its answer from Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah in this regard:

Question: What do the Islamic scholars say about the ruling: If a person consumes the hemp drug, opium, Tarri and Charas etc. except alcohol in a quantity that does not intoxicate him, will it be said that he has committed a Haraam act or not? ‘ بَیِّنوُ ْاتُوْجِرُوْا ’ (Please tell us and get reward.)

Answer: Intoxication is totally Haraam. Consuming intoxicating things that resembles drug addicted people, though they are not intoxicating, even then it is a sin. Islamic scholars have elaborated that drinking pure water in a way as one consumes alcohol is Haraam. However, if so little amount of opium or the hemp drug or Charas is used in any compound mixture (such as Ma’joon etc.) as a form of medicine which does not affect the intellect at all, then there is no harm in it, but one should protect himself from opium as it pierces the stomach, therefore the quantity of opium has to be increased willingly or unwillingly. وَالْعِیَاذُبِاﷲِ تَعَالٰی (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 25, pp. 213)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Each of us should avoid these deadly things and should seek the protection of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Unfortunately, in our society, there are a large number of people who, apart from these deadly intoxicating and Haraam narcotics, are habitual of chewing betel leaves and Gutkha. Though betel leaves and Gutkha are not Haraam and intoxicating, they are very harmful. Therefore, have mercy on your own condition and completely boycott them. Let’s listen to their disasters as well.

In his booklet ‘Paan Gutkha’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has mentioned: A 40-year-old man once told me: I have cancer in my gums. I have had an operation as well, but did not make any recovery. Actually, I used to chew 20 or 25 betel leaves daily along with smoking half or a full packet of cigarettes. I asked him: Do you still chew betel leaves and smoke cigarettes or not? So holding his ears he started saying that these things have destroyed me and brought me close to death. Now how can I use them! (Paan Gutkha, pp. 2)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard the way betel leaves and Gutkha destroyed the health of a person and he developed gum cancer. There are many other such patients who are in deep troubles due to smoking.

Remember! First of all the voice of the person, who chews betel leaves and Gutkha abundantly falters and he suffers from sore throat and if he does not abstain from chewing betel leaves and Gutkha by considering this warning a notice, مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ then one day it may become throat cancer. It is said: Amongst the patients of throat cancer 60 to 70 per cent are those who chew betel leaves and Gutkha. Nowadays, the disease of kidney stones is prevalent. One of the leading causes of this is to chew betel nut and consume chuna (lime). When the stone taken out of the kidney is medically examined, it usually contains a lot of calcium (i.e. lime). However, sometimes, the stone does contain the parts of betel nut as well. Those who enjoy chewing Gutkha and different types of fragrant Supari (small packets containing betel nuts), are humbly informed: According to a report of a doctor, betel nut causes kidney stones up to 80 per cent of the cases. مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ chewing betel leaves and Gutkha abundantly is also one of the leading causes of kidney failure or kidney cancer.

مین پوڑی اور گٹکا پان کھانا چھوڑ دو

بھائیو سگریٹ کا دُھواں اُڑانا چھوڑ دو

کینسر گر ہو گیا گھبراؤ گے پچھتاؤ گے

سر پٹخ کر روؤ گے، پَر کچھ نہ تم کر پاؤ گے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Giving the mindset for the preparation of the Hereafter, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: If there are no good intentions for obtaining reward, so there is even in the matters of the Hereafter in chewing betel leaves from the market, because the precious moments of life are spent by chewing betel leaves and nuts. During this time, a person does not do Zikr and recite Salat Alan Nabi and the Holy Quran. He causes disgust by spitting over and over again. If he spits on someone’s clothes, vehicles or walls etc., he faces the problems of the violation of human rights. Furthermore, there is a great difficulty for the one who chews betel leaves in

the matters of Wudu. Let’s listen to a summary of a clause in this regard from page 838 of Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, volume 1:

Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Those who are addicted to Paan know by experience that small particles of betel nuts and betel leaves (i.e. Paan) get stuck in all parts of the mouth (especially when there are gaps in the teeth) and rinsing the mouth three times or even ten or 12 times does not help in cleaning them properly. In fact, even using a toothpick or Miswak does not suffice. These particles of betel leaf and betel nut can only be removed by rinsing the mouth thoroughly with water multiple times and moving the water around each time. Rinsing the mouth in this way cannot be limited to a fixed number.

Cleaning the mouth properly has been stressed greatly. It is mentioned in many blessed Ahadees that when a person stands to offer Salah, an angel places his mouth on the mouth of the Salah-offering person and anything the person recites comes out of his mouth and enters the mouth of the angel. If, at that time, there are bits of food stuck between his teeth, the angels feel so much distress by it that nothing else causes so much distress to them.

(Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol.1, pp.838)

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘When any one of you stands at night to offer Salah, he should clean his teeth with a Miswak because when he recites the Quran, an angel places his mouth on his mouth and anything coming out of his mouth enters the mouth of that angel.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 381, Hadees 2117)

Likewise, Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub Ansari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated: There is nothing more troublesome for both angels than to see their companion offering Salah with bits of food stuck between his teeth. (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 4, pp. 177, Hadees 4061)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who chew Paan and Gutkha not only bear religious and worldly loss, but they also suffer medical loss along with inflicting pain upon the creation of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or rather مَعَاذَ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the innocent angels, due to the smell and filth of their mouths. Therefore, such Muslims should give up this destructive habit as soon as possible.

It is highly effective to study the 14-page booklet of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ namely, ‘Paan Gutkha’ for further information about the destruction of Paan and Gutkha. This booklet contains the disadvantages of lime, advantages of original Katha (catechu) and disadvantages of fake Kattha (catechu) and other important information. Therefore, obtain this booklet today from a stall of Maktaba tul Madinah and not only study it yourself, but also persuade others to study it. It can be read online or downloaded for free the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

Let’s now listen to the disadvantages of smoking cigarettes:

1. A smoker spends money to buy a trouble for himself and also troubles others by the smoke he releases.

2. By smoking cigarettes he faces difficulty in performing good deeds and worship.

3. A smoker gets inclined towards bad company.

4. Smoking cause mouth and tongue cancer.

5. It causes difficulty in breathing.

6. It damages the colour of the face and body.

7. It causes wrinkles on the face and body.

8. He is prone to a heart attack.

9. Those who smoke cigarettes and tobacco suffer from everlasting cough.

Dear Islamic brothers! The destruction of intoxication are many which cannot be counted. A drug addict violates the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His bondmen, and he does not fulfil the rights which his body has upon him. His body becomes lazy and he cannot do hard work. As a result, he loses his respect in the society and becomes dependent on others. His family members get sick of him and friends avoid him. He remains sad and spends his life miserably. In short, there is no trouble and worry which a drug addict does not experience, but despite this, unfortunately, at present the use of narcotics is rapidly increasing, due to which the whole nation, in particular the youth, is being badly affected. Therefore, we should try our best to stop these drugs. How is it possible? Of course, it is possible only when we avoid these things ourselves, and strictly advise our children to avoid them as well. We should keep our eyes on our children’s movements and the company they have in order to know what they are doing and with which children or boys they have their gatherings. In addition to this, we should also persuade the sick and the patients, who are in the habit of taking drugs, to abstain from its use. This is a good deed and if it is performed with good intentions, it will bring about rewards.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only had sympathy for the sick, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also gave them advice for treatments and prevention on many occasions. Talking about this, Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Munzir رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم approached me. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَرَّمَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی وَجْهَهُ الْکَرِيْم was also accompanying him. Some bunches of dates were hanging and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started eating them. Sayyiduna ‘Ali also started eating with him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O Ali! Stop, stop! (Do not eat these dates.) Because you have just recovered and you are still weak due to the illness, that’s why prevention is necessary for you). Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Munzir رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: I then cooked beetroot and barley, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O ‘Ali! Eat this, because it is beneficial and suitable for you.

Dear Islamic brothers! Dates is a heavy food which may be harmful if it is eaten immediately after the recovery from a disease, therefore, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered Sayyiduna Ali کَرَّمَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی وَجْهَهُ الْکَرِيْم to avoid eating

it. Therefore, we should also take care of the health and life of our Muslim brothers according to our ability and we should try to prevent them from harmful things, especially drugs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s try to understand the causes of why people usually start taking drugs. How is it possible to stay safe from these causes? Some causes of adopting the wrong path of taking drugs are especially important, and the biggest cause is to have bad company.

According to an analysis, unfortunately 90% of drug addicts become drug addicted due to the bad company of friends. In the beginning, these bad friends insist on taking drugs for free and mention baseless advantages of drugs such as ‘At least try it, it will remove your worries and you will forget your troubles; if you haven’t taken it, so what have you taken then; we are not charging money for it, etc. it starts like this, and when a person takes an intoxicating thing once, he starts falling into this evil habit in such a way that it becomes difficult for him to get out of it. Thus, he starts destroying his worldly and the Hereafter.

Another reason to start taking drugs is the home environment. Sometimes, when children see their parents taking drugs, they also become habitual of taking drugs. Therefore, if parents want to protect their children from this disease, they must stay far away from drugs as well.

Likewise, instead of performing good deeds if someone wastes his time in doing useless activities, then these acts may cause him to take drugs besides

adopting many other evil practices. The person who starts taking drugs due to poverty, forgets the time when he was absolutely powerless, he needed the affectionate lap of his mother, he needed the kind hands, or rather the finger of his father to stand on his feet. This unwise person forgets the time when his mother used to sacrifice her sleep the whole night despite doing the home chores the whole day due to his stomach ache.

This unwise person forgets the time when the sorrow of his grieved parents would turn into happiness when he would smile;

this unwise person forgets the time when his parents became very happy after seeing him walking for the very first time; he forgets the time when he would remain asleep, but his mother suffered a lot by making his breakfast, doing preparations for his school; this unwise person forgets the time when his mother would get worried and restless, until he would return from school or if he would get late someday due to any reason.

Her eyes would remain fixed on the door, waiting anxiously in the hope that a voice would be heard from outside, ‘Mother, I am back’ and out of extreme happiness she would give him a big hug. She sometimes would kiss his forehead and sometimes would clean his face with her soft hands; sometimes out of happiness, tears would stream down her face. Alas! When this foolish person causes pain and hurt to his affectionate parents by spending his precious time in the bad company of wicked friends, he is, at times, destined for disgrace and the world becomes its witness.

O lovers of the blessed Companions, of the blessed family of the Beloved Rasool! O lovers of the Noblest Rasool! Try to reunite these people with their families as they are tragically destroying their precious lives. Call these people towards righteousness and make individual efforts on them with extreme care and associate them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Bring them close to Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . If even a single person starts following the righteous path and any beloved one is reunited with his parents then imagine how many Du’as the distressed parents will make for you, and this could become a source of your salvation.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If the elders of a home give full freedom to their young ones and blindly trust them, and do not ask them about their actions such as where they were till late at night and who they were with, then due to this carelessness, children become victims of evil people and therefore they could start taking drugs. Therefore, the elders of a family should not allow their children to go out whether during the day or night just to pass their time. Furthermore, if children go out for some important work, and return home late, then they must be asked as to why they got so late and where they were, so that they form the habit of returning home in good time.

Another reason for falling into the evil habit of taking drugs is to have no awareness of the horrible consequences, and be ignorant of its religious, worldly and medical disadvantages. Obviously, if someone is not aware of the disadvantages of something, then he does not try to protect himself from it. Therefore, the person who wants to stay safe from its curse, must keep its consequences in mind.

Another reason to start taking drugs is to have excessive wealth. If someone has a lot of money or he gets money without any hard work, then he does not hesitate to spend it. This is one way in which he becomes habitual of taking drugs. Such people should keep in mind that Israaf (wastage) has been forbidden in the Holy Quran and those who spend on useless things are declared as the brothers of Satan. Furthermore, one should also remember that blessings increase if they are given importance and if they are not given importance and wrongly used, then their end is extremely bad. In Ayah 7 of Surah Ibrahim in part 13, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

لَئِنۡ شَکَرۡتُمۡ لَاَزِیۡدَنَّکُمۡ وَ لَئِنۡ کَفَرۡتُمۡ اِنَّ عَذَابِیۡ لَشَدِیۡدٌ ﴿۷﴾

‘If you give thanks, I will give you more, and if you are ungrateful then (know that) My punishment is severe.’

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah 7)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should try to protect ourselves from all those things which lead us to drug addiction, in particular, we should distance ourselves from bad company. One of the best ways to protect oneself from bad company is to be part of good company and to be associated with a good environment. Therefore, it is a Madani request to all of you to not only associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat e Islami, but to also persuade your family members, friends and relatives to get associated with this beautiful Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by its blessings one will be privileged to live his life as a practising Muslim. Furthermore, actively participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah to receive more blessings.

One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is to attend the Madani Halqah daily after Fajr Salah. In this Madani Halqah, 3 Quranic Ayaat are recited with their translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and the commentary from Khaza`in-ul-Irfan/Noor-ul-Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan. Also, 4 pages Dars is also given from Faizan-e-Sunnat and Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah is also read. There are great blessings of reciting and teaching the Holy Quran. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person who learns and teaches the Holy Quran and acts upon it, the Holy Quran will intercede on his behalf and will take him to Paradise. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 3, pp. 41)

Therefore, you also make your intention to regularly attend a Madani Halqah. Travel regularly with Madani Qafilahs in order to spread the call towards righteousness after being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, lots of blessings will be attained. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

Here is a summary of a delightful parable related by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India. He has stated: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was a great sinner. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, call people

names, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also a compulsive gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and I accepted his invitation. I immediately travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. In the company of the lovers of the beloved Rasool, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, a compulsive gambler and drinker like me who did not use to offer any Salah not only started offering Salah but was also inspired to do Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ As a result of my individual efforts, 30 Islamic brothers have so far travelled with Madani Qafilahs. I am now a Muazzin in a Masjid and busy making efforts for Madani activities.

گر آئے شرابی مِٹے ہر خرابی

چڑھائے گا ایسا نشہ مَدَنی ماحول

اگر چور ڈاکو بھی آجائیں گے تو

سُدھر جائیں گے گر مِلا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is rendering its services in more than 100 departments, one of these departments is ‘Majlis Maktoob Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the Majlis Maktoob Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah Dawat-e-Islami, the Majlis relieves grieved Muslims of their troubles, free of cost, through

Ta’wizaat with the permission of Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ ; and the facility of Istikharah is also available.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A program named ‘Ruhaani ‘Ilaj Istikharah’ is telecasted live on Madani channel, which assists thousands of Muslim all over the world. With the intention of providing convenience and wellbeing to the lovers of the Beloved Rasool around the globe, phone lines for Istikharah services are also available. Monthly, 55000 Islamic brothers happily render this service. Dawat-e-Islami’s website contains the services of ‘online Istikharah’ (via email) and for overseas Islamic brothers a ‘Whatsapp Istikharah service’ is also available through which monthly thousands of Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters are assisted by this free service. Through the facility of Kaat (treatment) service on the website of Dawat-e-Islami, Islamic brothers from across the world send emails to the Majlis for Kaat (to get rid) of their problems, monthly around 65000 grieved people avail this service. (Yearly about 7800000 people avail the service).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, until now, without any exaggeration, millions of Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah, letters of consoling and paying condolences have been sent out and until the time of writing, approximately 750 Ta’wizaat Attariyyah stalls are set up daily across Pakistan and 230 stalls are set up in other countries. The average quantity of patients around the globe is 335000.Furthermore, all over Pakistan, weekly Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah by Islamic sisters are setup at approximately 80 locations; through these stalls, thousands of Islamic sisters are assisted. In short, by virtue of the individual efforts of Ta’wizaat Bastah Zimmahdaran, hundreds of lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم travel with Madani Qafilahs, thousands of new Islamic brothers attend the weekly congregations, thousands of lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gain the privilege of entering into the Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Attariyyah Sufi order (spiritual path). Many fortunate Islamic brothers start growing their beards and start wearing the ‘Imamah (turban), they also take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs and lead a life in accordance to the Shari’ah, many also complete different free courses such as ‘Fard-e-‘Uloom’, Sunnat-e-Adaab etc.,

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah Majlis continues to give us the good news of non-Muslims embracing Islam. Those who receive Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah are encouraged and collectively distribute thousands of VCDs, CDs and booklets. Congregations of Consoling are held for the grieved and distressed people, which contain Salat-ul-Hajaat, a Sunnah inspiring Bayan, special treatment for Hepatitis C Jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes) and congregational Du’a; apart from this, Ta’wizaat for all problems are also part of this blessed congregation. Thousands of people attend these congregations and many of them regularly attend the weekly congregations, punctually attend the Madani Muzakarah and immediately travel with Madani Qafilahs. Those who need Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah should attend the weekly congregation and the weekly congregational Madani Muzakarah as well as obtain Ta’wizaat-e-Attariyyah from Ta’wizaat stalls.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دُھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard about the destructions of intoxicating things. These things are very dangerous and harmful for Muslims from a religious and worldly perspective. Usually, the happiness of a drug addict’s home comes to an end. His children become worried. His parents and wife have grievances against him. People start hating him. Sometimes, a drug addict causes inconvenience to Muslims by abusing and beating them. He suffers from different types of dangerous bodily diseases. He loses his money due to the drug addiction. He destroys himself. He becomes ungrateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by wasting his own life, money and time. Therefore, each of us should keep far away from this terrible disease and we should also protect others from it. Those, who are unfortunately suffering from this distress, should try to get rid of it as soon as possible. They should repent of it

sincerely. The best solution is to also to get associated with a good environment by giving up bad company. Therefore, it is a Madani request to all of you Islamic brothers to associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for the betterment of your worldly life and the Hereafter. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to act upon this!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Paradise.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 359, vol. 5)

3. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl/Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, p. 180, vol. 6)

4. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

§ Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

§ Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

§ Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 218-219 vol. 5)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at volume 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the devotees of the Beloved Prophet.

سُنّتیں سیکھنے تین دِن کے لیے ہر مہینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

عِلم حاصل کرو جہل زائل کرو پاؤ گے رفعتیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

