Muballigha must read the bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Reciting Holy Quran

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: مَنْ قَرأ الْقُرْآنَ و حَمِدَ الرّبَّ و صَلَّى عَلَى النَّبِي صَلَّى اللهُ عَلَيْهِ و سَلَّمَ و يَسْتَغْفِرُ رَبَّه فَقَدْ طَلَبَ الْخَيْر َمَكَانَه ‘Whoever recited the Holy Quran, praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 373, vol. 2, Hadees 2084)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has

said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Millions of thanks be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has created us in the Ummah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and granted us a great blessing by revealing the Holy Quran to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows 10 virtue s for every letter upon every Muslim who recites the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to further virtues and blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran.

Blessing of Surah Yaseen:

Imam Naasir-ud-din Basti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه once became very ill and fell into a coma. Presuming him to be dead, his close relatives gave him Ghusl [ritual bath] and Kafn [shrouded his body] and then they buried him. When he returned to consciousness in his grave at night, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was greatly surprised to find himself buried in the grave. In the state of worry, he recalled, ‘Whoever recites Surah Yasin 40 times in trouble, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes his trouble and difficulties turn into easiness.’ Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started reciting Surah Yaseen. When he recited 39 times, a shroud thief began to dig open his grave with the intention to steal his shroud. he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by his Divinely-bestowed insight, became aware that he was a shroud thief. he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, therefore, started reciting in a very low voice 40 th time so that the thief could not listen to it. As he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his 40 th recitation, the shroud thief also dug open his grave completely. he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the grave. Due to the fear, the heart of the shroud thief failed and he died. Imam Nasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thought that if he returned to the city immediately, people would be very worried and would get frightened. he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the city in the night and called out in front of every door of the street: I am Nasiruddin Basti. Seeing me in a coma you people thought I was dead by mistake and buried me,

but I am alive. After that incident, Imam Nasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote exegesis of the Holy Quran. (Fawaid-ul-Fawad, pp: 139)

فلموں سے ڈراموں سے دے نفرت تُو اِلٰہی

بس شوق مجھے نعت و تلاوت کا خُدا دے

Dear Islamic sisters! What great blessings the recitation of the Holy Quran has! When Imam Nasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned to consciousness and found himself buried, he started reciting Surah Yaseen in this state of worry and by virtue of its blessing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created means from the Ghaib [unseen] for his salvation and hence he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of his grave alive and safe. Surely, the Holy Quran is a very beautiful blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Book of mercy and blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed to the blessed luminous heart of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the guidance and success of His bondmen. It is sufficient for its greatness that it is Kalamullah (i.e., it is the beloved Kalam [Word] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). This blessed Book is absolutely perfect from every point of view. It was revealed by Rabb-ul-Alameen [Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ], brought by Rooh-ul-Ameen [Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ] and the one to whom it was revealed is رَحْمَۃٌ لِّلْعَالَمِیۡن [The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. The Ummah (nation) for whom this sacred Book was revealed is the best of all, the language in which it was revealed is Arabic, a clear language and the month in which it was revealed is the most sacred amongst all the months and the night in which it was revealed is the most superior night and the places where it was revealed are the most dignified places. The Holy Quran is a Divine revelation. It is a source of attaining closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is the Divinely revealed book for the guidance and salvation of the entire creation, until the world exists. It is the summary of all revealed books. It is the collection of all branches of knowledge. It is a collection of guidance, a treasure of mercy and a source of blessings. It is such a code which if followed properly, all issues and problems can be solved. It is such a Noor [light] through which all the

darkness of misguidance can be removed. It is such a path that directly leads to the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Paradise. It is such a system of reform and Tarbiyat (learning) that makes a person ideal after purifying herself. It is such a tree that the one who sits under its shade feels inner peace. It is such a faithful companion that stands by us even in the grave and remains faithful to us even on the Judgment Day. It contains cure for sick hearts. The one who holds fast to it will be guided and the one who acts upon it will succeed in both worlds (i.e., in this world and in the Hereafter).

In Ayah 23 of Surah Al-Zumar, Part 23, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in praise of the Holy Quran:

The Best Book

اَللّٰهُ نَزَّلَ اَحْسَنَ الْحَدِیْثِ كِتٰبًا مُّتَشَابِهًا مَّثَانِیَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Allah has sent down the best of Books (the Holy Quran), which is consistent throughout, the one with paired statements.’

Two conditions have been stated in Tafseer Khazin for the Holy Quran اَحْسَنُ الْحَدِیث to be the best Book: (1) From word point of view (2) From meaning point of view

1 The Holy Quran occupies the most superior position of eloquence from the word point of view. Neither is it from the kind of couplets of poetry nor is it in the style of public sermons and booklets, but rather it is a kind of Kalaam that is different from everything in its manner i.e. writing style.

2 From the meaning point of view, nowhere is there any contradiction and difference in the Holy Quran. It contains pieces of news of the past, events of primitive people, abundant pieces of news of Ghaib [the

unseen], promises and warnings, and the Bayan of Paradise and Hell. (Tafsir-ul-Khazin, part: 23)

It is stated in a blessed Hadees اَصْدَقُ الْحَدِیثِ کِتَابُ اللّٰہ i.e., the most truthful Kalaam is the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shu’b-ul-Iman, Hadees: 4786) It is stated in another blessed Hadees: خَیْرُ الْحَدِیثِ کِتَابُ اللّٰہ i.e., the best Kalaam is the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 867)

Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami (Madani movement of devotees of Rasool), ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ implores humbly in the Blessed Court of Allah Almighty for propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran to Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and to Madani children.

ہر روز میں قرآن پڑھوں کاش خدایا!

دے اللّٰه! تلاوت میں مرے دل کو لگا

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yaar Naeemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: Hadees categorically means a ‘talk’ and Kalaam [speech], therefore, according to this meaning, the Holy Quran is a Hadees, and Kalam of the people is also Hadees, but in (Hadees) terminology, only the blessed sayings and actions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are called ‘Hadees’. Here it is in literal meaning. The Kalaam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is superior to all other Kalaams as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself is to His creation. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, 146/1)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard the virtues and marvels of the Holy Quran. Surely the glory and greatness of the Holy Quran cannot be judged. Its recitation is worship, listening to it is worship, touching it is worship even looking at it is also worship. This sacred Kalaam is full of

mercy and blessings. Let’s, first of all, listen to the excellence of those who love this sacred Book.

Way of recognising love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The one who likes to know whether he loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should see that if he loves the Holy Quran (i.e., he recites it and acts upon it. Sharah Shifa Mulla Ali Qari) so he also loves Allah Kareem and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, Hadees: 8657)

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin Abdullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The sign of having love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is having love for the Holy Quran, the sign of having love for the Holy Quran is having love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the sign of having love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is having love for the Sunnah [i.e. loving his Ahadees, traditions and life style etc.,] the sign of having love for Sunnah is having love for the Hereafter, the sign of having love for the Hereafter is having hatred towards (the sensual attractions of) this world and the sign of having hatred towards this world is taking it as per need and such a quantity be taken that leads to the Hereafter. (Al Shifa, Huqooq-ul-Mustafa, pp: 28)

It is stated in Jami’-ul-Uloom Wal Hikam: Nothing is sweeter and more pleasurable than the Kalaam [speech] of the beloved in the sight of lovers. The Kalam [speech] of the beloved brings about pleasure to their hearts and this is the utmost point of their aim. (Jami-ul-Uloom Walhikam, 482)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard how important it is to have love for the Holy Quran! Love for the Holy Quran is being declared to be the sign of love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sign of love for the Holy Quran is also acting upon it along with its recitation.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, the people who love the Holy Quran and also act upon it besides reciting it are very fortunate, but unfortunately, there are a large number of people in our society who are very far away from the Holy Quran and do not recite it even after many months. That is why today we are facing different types of problems. We are seriously facing the issues of strained relations, discords and unemployment. Almost every one of us has the Holy Quran at our homes and it is also a great privilege, but unfortunately we have forgot after placing it in our homes and do not even open it, though there is great excellence of reciting the Holy Quran at homes.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The home, in which Quran is recited, becomes full of blessings for its dwellers; its goodness is abundant; angels visit it and devils go away from it. The home, in which Quran is not recited, becomes confined to its dwellers; its goodness is reduced; angels go away from it and devils enter it. (Ihya ul Uloom, Mutarjam, pp: 826/1)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: You continue to have relation with Quran; recite it regularly; hence by the One in Whose possession my soul is! Surely Quran runs away (is forgotten) faster than the camels which are tethered [tied to a post] with their ropes. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 412, Hadees 5033) Therefore, pay true attention to it, form a habit of reciting it daily then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will also have its bounties and blessings. Your worries will also be removed from your homes and there will be blessing in your sustenance and اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all the matters will become easy and will start getting resolved.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to something about the greatness and excellence of the recitation of the Holy Quran so that we can also develop

the importance of the Holy Quran and desire to recite it daily in our hearts. In Ayah 29 of Surah Al-Fatir, Part 22, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ یَتْلُوْنَ كِتٰبَ اللّٰهِ وَ اَقَامُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اَنْفَقُوْا مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ سِرًّا وَّ عَلَانِیَةً یَّرْجُوْنَ تِجَارَةً لَّنْ تَبُوْرَۙ(۲۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Indeed those who read the Book of Allah, and keep the prayer established, and spend from what We have bestowed upon them in secret and publicly, are hopeful of a trade in which there is never a loss.’

Regarding this blessed Ayah it is stated in Tafseer-e-Baghawi: تِجَارَةً means the reward Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has promised; there is no loss at all, that is, this reward will neither be invalid nor be wasted. (Tafseer-e-Baghawi, vol. 3, pp: 492) It is as if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is giving good news of great reward to the reciters of the Holy Quran.

At another place, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in this manner in praise of the reciters of the Holy Quran:

اَلَّذِیْنَ اٰتَیْنٰهُمُ الْكِتٰبَ یَتْلُوْنَهٗ حَقَّ تِلَاوَتِهٖؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِهٖؕ-وَ مَنْ یَّكْفُرْ بِهٖ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْخٰسِرُوْنَ۠(۱۲۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Those to whom We have given the Book, read it in the manner it should be read; it is they who believe in it; and those who deny it, they are the losers.’

Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: In this Ayah اُولٰٓىٕكَ یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِهٖؕ- i.e., ‘it is they who believe’ refers to the blessed companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who believed in the Ayahs of Allah Kareem and attested to them. (Tafseer Durr e Mansur, pp: 273) It has become obvious that the recitation

of the Holy Quran is the part and quality of believers. Regarding this Ayah, it is stated on page 200 of Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan, vol. 1’, a great and easy commentary, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah:

Rights of Holy Quran:

It has also been learnt that there are many rights of the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The right of the Holy Quran is that it should be revered, it should be loved, it should be recited, it should be understood, it should be believed in, it should be acted upon and it should be conveyed to others.

Similarly, countless virtues of the Holy Quran have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to 4 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard.

1 Recite the Holy Quran as it will come to intercede for its reciters on the Judgement Day. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 804)

2 It is a Hadees-e-Qudsi that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated: ‘The one who is prevented by the recitation of the Holy Quran from asking from Me and begging Me, I will grant him better reward than the reward of those who are thankful.

3 Three types of people will be on the mounds of dark musk [a type of fragrance]. They will not feel any kind of nervousness, nor will they be asked for accountability until people get finished with their accountability. (One of them) is the person who recites the Holy Quran for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and leads the Salah of people who are happy with him. (Shub-ul-Iman, Hadees: 2002)

4 People of the Holy Quran (i.e., those who recite it and act upon its commandments) (Ithaf-us-Sadah, pp: 13) are Allah-loving ones and His special people. (Sunan Ibn e Maja, Hadees: 215)

اللّٰه! مجھے حافظِ قرآن بنا دے

قرآن کے اَحکام پہ بھی مجھ کو چلا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how great the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran are! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is praising such people. Moreover, abundant virtues have also been mentioned for them in blessed Ahadees.

The reciters of the Holy Quran have been declared to be the special servants of Allah Almighty. Further, the person who recites the Holy Quran for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will neither feel any kind of nervousness nor will be asked for accountability on the Judgement Day. Just ponder! How great deprival it is to not recite the Holy Quran despite so many blessings and favours!

On the other hand, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی had such a great yearning for reciting the Holy Quran that they would deeply ponder over each blessed Ayah and would recite the Holy Quran with extreme pleasure and delight. One pious person رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I start one Surah and observe such a thing in it that I remain standing until the morning, but the Surah does not get completed. (Ihya-ul-‘Ulum, pp: 852)

It is narrated about another pious person رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who has stated: I do not consider the blessed Ayah, which I recite without understanding and attention, to be a source of reward. (Ihya-ul-‘Ulum, pp: 852) Sayyiduna Sulayman Daarani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When I recite an Ayah of the Holy Quran, I spend four or five nights pondering over it. If I do not stop myself pondering over it, I do not get time for the next Ayah. (Ihya-ul-‘Ulum pp: 852) Ameer-ul-Momineen Sayyiduna Usman Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would recite the Holy Quran so abundantly that 2 copies of the Holy Quran were worn-out

due to it. Many blessed companions would recite the Holy Quran by looking at it and they did not like to pass a single day without seeing the Holy Quran. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp: 843) O Allah Kareem عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of devotees of the Holy Quran, make us devotees of the Holy Quran! May we find no peace without seeing and reciting the Holy Quran!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Recitation of the Holy Quran is the best worship. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اَفْضَلُ عِبَادَۃِ اُمَّتِیْ قِراءَۃُ الْقُرْاٰنِ i.e., the best form of worship of my Ummah is the recitation of the Holy Quran. (Shub-ul-Iman, Hadees: 2022) So we should not avoid reciting it. Surely, wise is she who is busy collecting more and more virtuous deeds in this world, therefore, make an intention to recite the Holy Quran regularly without missing a single day in future اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic sisters! For propagating Quranic education, only desire is not sufficient, but rather we should make efforts practically to propagate the teachings of the Holy Quran. Dawat-e-Islami is propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ By virtue of the blessing of the Tarbiyat by Ameer e Ahl-e-Sunnat, Dawat-e-Islami is leaving no stone unturned to convey the teachings of the Holy Quran and Hifz-o-Nazirah in the countries, cities, villages and every street and location. You also help Dawat-e-Islami in these efforts. How can you help? Listen! Get Madrasahs built for Dawat-e-Islami from your Halaal earnings so that [the Islamic brothers/sisters of] Dawat-e-Islami can teach the Holy Quran to your Madani children [boys and girls]. Fix some amount of money from your salary and income in order to propagate the teachings of the Holy Quran. If you want, you can take the responsibility of paying the expenses of any Madrasa tul Madinah or the salary of any Mudarris (teacher). You can also include others in this virtuous deed. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Wills, you will get abundant reward for propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran. If you

have not learnt to recite the Holy Quran, you too should attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah. There are Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic sisters] in which Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters the Holy Quran free of charge at homes.

Importance of individual efforts:

Dear Islamic sisters! Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has given us a Madani aim that ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ We should act upon Madani Ina’mat for reforming ourselves. Similarly, we should start making individual efforts to make Muslims righteous, Salah-offering, make them habitual of following Sunnah and keep them away from sins.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Quran is the best cure

Dear Islamic sisters! Whoever recites the Holy Quran daily in the morning and evening not only collects abundant reward, but by its blessings she also gets cured of inner (spiritual) and outer (physical) diseases. Once a person made a complaint of his sore throat to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Start reciting the Holy Quran.’ A man came and humbly said: I have got a chest pain. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Recite Holy Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: الصُّدُوْرِ وَشِفَآءٌ Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And cure for the hearts.’ (Al-Durr e Mansur, 4/366) or rather the Holy Quran is also the best cure for various illnesses. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: خَیْرُالدَّوَاءِ اَلْقُرْاٰنُ i.e., ‘The best cure is the Holy Quran.’ (Sunan Ibn e Maja: Hadees 3501)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Allamah Abdul Rauf Manawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written: i.e., the best Ta’weez (amulet) is that which is done through any Quranic Ayah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ نُنَزِّلُ مِنَ الْقُرْاٰنِ مَا هُوَ شِفَآءٌ وَّ رَحْمَةٌ لِّلْمُؤْمِنِیْنَۙ-وَ لَا یَزِیْدُ الظّٰلِمِیْنَ اِلَّا خَسَارًا(۸۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We send down in the Quran that which is a cure and mercy for the believers, and only loss increases for the unjust because of it. (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 82)

So the Holy Quran is the cure for the body, heart and soul in fact for all. When some Kalaams have qualities and benefits, what do you think about the Kalaam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that is superior to all other Kalaams as Allah Almighty is superior to His creation? There are some such Ayahs in the Holy Quran which are for eradicating some specific diseases and troubles, but only specific people attain the Maarifat [Divine insight] into these Ayahs. (Fayz-ul-Qadir, 628/3)

Dear Islamic sisters! The whole Holy Quran is a cure for diseases and saves from troubles and difficulties. Every Surah of the Holy Quran has its own excellence and glory that is sufficient to protect life and possession, give pleasure [to the heart] by removing sorrow and grief and eliminate the disease. Let’s listen to the brief virtues of some blessed Surahs of the Holy Quran mentioned in the 679-page book ‘Jannati Zaywer’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

٭ Any Du’a that is made after reciting Surah Al-Fati h ah 100 times, will be answered .

٭ Satan flees from the home by virtue of reciting Surah Al-Baqarah.

٭ Recitation of Ayatul Kursi removes poverty.

٭ Whoever always recites Surah Kahf will stay safe from the Fitnas [mischiefs] of Dajjal.

٭ By virtue of reciting Surah Yaseen at the graves of parents every Friday the sins of parents equal to the number of its letters are forgiven.

٭ Recitation of Surah Dukhan removes difficulty.

٭ If the Dam (i.e. blowing after reciting) of Surah Al-Jaasiyah is made upon the one who is dying, he will die in goodness.

٭ Reciting Surah Al-Hujurat and drinking the water on which its Dam has been made are beneficial for goodness and blessings in the home.

٭ Recitation of Surah Qaaf brings about abundance of fruits in the orchard.

٭ All aims are achieved by reciting Surah Al-Rahman 11 times .

٭ The one who recites Surah Al-Waaqi’ah daily will never suffer from starvation.

٭ The one who recites Surah Al-Mulk every night will stay safe from the torment of the grave.

٭ Reciting Surah Al-Muzzammil 11 times eases every difficulty.

٭ Making Du’a for memorising the Holy Quran after reciting Surah Al Muddassir makes it easy to memorize the Holy Quran.

٭ By reciting Surah Al-Naazi’aat one will not have the agony of death.

٭ By virtue of reciting Surah Ad-Duha the person, who has run away, will return.

٭ The possessions on which Surah Alam Nashrah is recited will have abundant blessings.

٭ Recitation of Surah Al-Teen 3 times improves manners and character.

٭ Surah Alaq has the cure of joint pain.

٭ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase the respect of the one who recites Surah Al-Qadr in the morning and evening.

٭ Surah Al-Bayyinah has the cure for leukoderma and jaundice.

٭ Surah Al-Zilzaal is equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran.

٭ Dam of Surah Al-Aadiyaat is useful for the animal or the person who has become the victim of the evil eye.

٭ Recitation of Surah Al-Qaari’ah protects from calamities.

٭ Debt is paid off very soon by reciting Surah At-Takaasur 300 times.

٭ Sorrow is removed by reciting Surah Al-‘Asr.

٭ Surah Al-Humazah and Surah Al-Feel protect from the evils of the enemy.

٭ Surah Quraysh has been proved for the protection/safety of life.

٭ Recitation of Surah Al Maa’oon is very effective in great difficulty.

٭ By reciting Surah Al-Kawsar a childless couple becomes a couple with children.

٭ Surah Al-Kafiroon is equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran.

٭ Surah Al-Ikhlas is equal to one-third of the Holy Quran and it has many virtues.

٭ Surah Al-Falaq and Surah Al-Naas protect a person from Jinn, Satan and the evils of jealous people. (Jannati Zewer, pp: 588)

May we be blessed with the passion for reciting the Holy Quran! Let’s include ourselves in the Du’a made by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat:

تلاوت کا جذبہ عطا کر الٰہی معاف فرما میری خطا ہر الٰہی

تلاوت کروں ہر گھڑی یا الٰہی بکوں نہ کبھی بھی میں واہی تباہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Buy a very beautiful book of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ namely, ‘Madani Treasure of Blessings’ from Maktaba tul Madinah and study in order to know something about the virtues of different Surahs of the Holy Quran and get further information about them. This book should be in every home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it contains famous Quranic Surahs, Duroods and spiritual treatments along with countless fragrant Madani pearls. It can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

Learn Holy Quran with correct pronunciation!

Dear Islamic sisters! In Ayah 4 of Surah Al-Muzzammil, part 29, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ رَتِّلِ الْقُرْاٰنَ تَرْتِیْلًاؕ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And recite the Quran delightfully in slow distinct stages [1] .

About this blessed Ayah it is mentioned on page 413 of Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan, vol 10: It means that one should recite the Holy Quran with calmness in a way that every letter should be pronounced clearly. She should take special care of the places where Waqf has to be performed and the pronunciation of Harakaat [diacritical marks]. Having said ‘ تَرْتِیْلًا ’ at the end of the blessed Ayah it has been emphasized that for the reciter of the Holy Quran it is extremely necessary to recite the Holy Quran with Tarteel [clearly and distinctly]. (Madarik, Taht-al-Ayah, pp. 1292)

Remember! The reciter of the Holy Quran will receive Divine blessing if she knows how to recite the Holy Quran correctly. People, in our society,

do not avoid paying high fees for gaining modern worldly education, doing English language, computer and different other courses etc., but unfortunately, due to lack of Islamic knowledge, they have no time to learn the Holy Quran free of charge with correct pronunciation. Remember! The people who do not know how to recite the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation commit sins instead of earning reward.

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Malik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: ‘Many reciters of Quran are such that (due to reciting incorrectly) the Holy Quran curses them.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Ulum, pp: 364)

A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: [Learning] recitation of the Holy Qur'an with correct pronunciation to such an extent that every letter should be clearly distinct from the other letter is obligatory for every individual. Without it Salah is definitely invalid. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, 3/253)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: ‘Undoubtedly recitation of the Holy Quran with correction pronunciation to the extent that the reciter can pronounce the letters with correct pronunciation/places of articulation according to the rules of correct pronunciation and can refrain from reciting them incorrectly is obligatory for every individual.’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, 6/343) Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It is Wajib for the one who cannot pronounce letters correctly to make every effort in pronouncing them correctly day and night. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 570)

Dear Islamic sisters! If we also want to recite the Holy Quran with correct rules and pronunciation/places of articulation and we should, we must attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) which are conducted almost daily in homes in different countries of the world in which Islamic sisters receive education of the Holy Quran, Salah and Sunnah free of charge and also memorize Du’as.

How great the virtues of the education of the Holy Quran are! Listen to the two sayings of The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, from page 484, volume 3 of 1197-page book ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

1 The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran and teaches [it to others]. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 5027)

2 One who is expert in reciting the Holy Quran is with Kiraaman Kaatibeen and for the one who falters in it, and finds it hard [i.e., s/he cannot pronounce easily, pronounce with difficulty], there are two rewards. (Sahih Muslim, pp: 400, Hadees 798)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic sisters] to learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We can get the blessings of the Holy Quran in the true sense when we recite it also keeping in view its manners. If we do not take care of the manners, we will neither get its benefits nor its blessings, but rather in some situations we can commit sins. Let’s listen to some manners of reciting the Holy Quran so that we can attain its blessings by reciting it in a proper way.

1 Amir-ul-Mu`minin, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Faruq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to kiss the Holy Quran in the morning every day, and would say, ‘This is the covenant of my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and His Book.’ (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 634)

2 It is Musta h ab to recite Ta’awwuz ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰه ’ when beginning Tilawat, and it is Sunnah to recite Tasmiyah ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the start of a Surah, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

3 It is Mustahab to perform Tilawat in the state of Wudu, facing the Qiblah, and whilst wearing good garment. (ibid, pp. 550)

4 Reciting the Holy Quran by looking at it is Afzal (superior) to reciting it by heart, because this not only involves reciting the Holy Quran, but it also includes the acts of looking at the Holy Quran and touching it, and all these are acts of worship. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 495)

5 The Holy Quran should be recited in an exceedingly elegant voice, and if somebody does not possess a pleasant voice, he should try to beautify his voice when reciting. But it is impermissible to recite in such a melodious tone which causes to miss or add letters, like the way singers do. This is impermissible, take utmost care in upholding the rules and regulations of recitation [Tajwid].

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 694)

6 It is Afzal (superior) to recite the Holy Quran in an audible voice, as long as it doesn’t cause trouble to Namazis (Salah-performing individuals) or anybody who is ill or anybody who is asleep. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 497)

7 When the Holy Quran is recited aloud, it is Fard on all attendees to listen to it provided they have congregated for the purpose of listening. Otherwise, it is sufficient even if one of them listens, though others are busy carrying out their activities. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 23, pp. 353)

8 It is Haraam for everybody in a gathering to recite aloud. In gatherings of Isal-e-Sawab, usually everybody recites aloud. This is Haraam

[strictly forbidden]. If there are few people for recitation, the ruling for them is to recite quietly. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 2, pp. 552)

9 It is impermissible to recite the Holy Quran aloud in the marketplace, or anywhere where people are busy doing their activities. If people would not listen to it, the reciter will be a sinner. If he has started recitation before people get busy in their activities and that place is also not used for work and people do not listen to it either then people will be the sinners whereas if the reciter starts reciting after they get busy in their activities then he will be a sinner.

(Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 497)

10 There is no harm in reciting the Holy Quran whilst lying down, as long as the legs are folded up [i.e. not stretched out] and the face is not covered by any piece of cloth, etc. Additionally, it is also permissible to perform Tilawat whilst walking or working, provided attention of the heart is not distracted; otherwise it would be Makruh [disliked]. (ibid, pp. 496)

11 It is impermissible to recite the Holy Quran in the bathroom or in the places of impurity. (ibid)

12 Listening to the recitation of the Holy Quran is better than reciting the Holy Quran or offering Nafl Salah [supererogatory prayers].

(ibid, pp. 497)

13 If somebody recites incorrectly, it is Wajib for the listener to correct him, provided that it does not create grudge and jealousy. (ibid, pp. 498)

14 Recite the holy Quran with Tarteel (slowly and distinctly), this is the Mustahab way.

15 During recitation, if someone feels laziness and weakness, it is better for her to stop recitation for some time so that she could start recitation again actively and comfortably.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Keep reciting the Holy Quran as long as you remain attentive; then, when you start getting inattentive, stop recitation. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 419, Hadees 5060)

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to learn more etiquette of reciting the holy Quran, read the booklet, ‘Excellence of reciting the Holy Quran’, authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ .

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Different departments of Dawat-e-Islami for disseminating the teachings of the Holy Quran

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Baneen

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Juzz waqti

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Rihaishi

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Banaat

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighat

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Baneen online

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Banaat online

Madani children, living in Pakistan and abroad, are provided with the education of Holy Quran Hifz-o-Nazirah in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Baneen. Those children who go to school are provided with the education

of the Holy Quran for one or two hours in ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Juz Waqti’ after their school study. Students are provided with accommodation in ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Rihaishi’ where they acquire the education of Quran Hifz-o-Nazirah. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Banaat (for Islamic sisters), Qaria Islamic sisters provide the Madani female children with the education of Quran Hifz-o-Nazirah free of cost. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighat, Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters the Holy Quran, Salah, Du’as and their specific rulings etc., collectively at homes free of cost.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil-Baneen online, the Qari Islamic brothers, via internet, teach Madani children (boys) and adult Islamic brothers recitation of Holy Quran, Sunnah and make them memorise Du’as.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Lil Banaat online, Islamic sisters, via internet, teach Islamic sisters Holy Quran with correct articulation and give them Tarbiyat according to Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ students from more or less 86 countries have been acquiring education of the Holy Quran.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, there are approximately 2761 Madrasa-tul-Madinah (Lil-Baneen and Lil Banaat) in Pakistan and abroad in which approximately 128413 Madani children are being provided with Hifz-o-Nazirah education free of cost.

یہی ہے آرزُو تعلیمِ قرآں عام ہو جائے

تلاوت کرنا صُبح و شام میرا کام ہو جائے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Rabita Baray e ‘Aalimaat

As a result of deep affection of the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Hazrat ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, with Sunni scholars and Mashaikh, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool established a department namely ‘Majlis Rabita Bil-‘Ulama wal Mashaikh’. In the same manner a Majlis-e-Rabita for ‘Aalimaat is also established in Islamic sisters. The Islamic sisters of this Majlis meet the Scholar Islamic sisters and introduce them the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah, One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters). Arrange at least one Madrasa tul Madinah (for Islamic sisters) in one Zayli Halqah. The target is to have at least 12 Islamic sisters for studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah. (Duration: maximum 1 hour and 12 minutes). It can be arranged any time between morning 8 and the Azan of ‘Asr (at a purdah-making place). Teach them the method of giving Ghusl, making Wudu, offering Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as, Shar’i rulings on women along with the correct recitation of the Holy Quran not without looking at the book, but by looking at the book namely ‘Islami behno ki Namaz’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Arrange Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) as per the Madani pearls. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Madrasa-tul-Madinah is also an extremely effective source of imparting and gaining Islamic knowledge. It is stated about the excellence of gaining Islamic knowledge: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed to Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْهِالـصَّلٰوةُوَالـسَّلَام: Learn good things yourself and teach them to others as well. I will illuminate the graves of those who learn goodness and teach it so that they do not feel any kind of terror. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 5, Hadees 7622)

Passion for fashion turned into devotion to Sunnah

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi: I was so crazy about western culture that I would wear pants and shirt like boys. I would talk to Na-Mahram males unhesitatingly and would remain in the company of ill-mannered friends. My father used to run a hotel. I was so bold that I would sit at the counter of the hotel despite being prohibited by my father. I used to study at a school. Glory be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I suddenly took an interest in studying at a Madrasah and mentioned it to my father. Seizing the opportunity, he admitted me to Dawat-e-Islami’s Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters). I started learning the Holy Quran.

After a few days, our teacher told us about the annually-held global Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in Multan and persuaded us to visit houses in order to invite other Islamic sisters for the Ijtima’ calling them to righteousness. We spread the invitation to the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ actively and excitedly. I was anxiously waiting for the ‘special session’ of the last day because I had never attended any Ijtima’ before. At last, the day of the Ijtima’ arrived. I attended ‘the special session’ of the annual Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ enthusiastically in which I had the opportunity to listen to the telephonic speech on the topic of ‘ Cure for Sins ’. The speech made me tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I suddenly realized how flagrantly I was disobeying my Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ and leading a sinful life!

At the end, a heart-rending Du’a was made. When I saw countless weeping Islamic sisters during the Du’a I also started weeping with my heart full of remorse. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I repented of sins and made a firm intention to get reformed. By the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, I attended the Ijtima’ which had a profound impact on my heart, inspiring me to associate myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I started observing Islamic veiling and offering Salah regularly. Today, my parents

Surahs.) Sayyiduna Jubayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ said: I started reciting them [those Surahs] and I began to remain the most prosperous and free from the care and worries of the provisions of the journey amongst all my travelling companions throughout my journey.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 314, Hadees 1745)

٭ It is Sunnah to say ﴿ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ﴾ when going up the stairs, walking upwards or our bus etc., is passing through such a street that goes upwards. Moreover, it is Sunnah to say ﴿ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰهِ ﴾ when coming down the stairs, or walking downwards. Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ narrated: We would say ﴿ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ﴾ when climbing upwards, and we would say ﴿ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰهِ ﴾ when coming downwards. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 307, Hadees 2994)

٭ When you get off at destination, recite the following Du’a from time to time, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be safe from every loss:

اَعُوْذُ بِکَلِمَاتِ اللّٰہِ التَّآمَّاتِ مِنْ شَرِّ مَا خَلَقَ

Translation: I seek refuge in the perfect words of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from the evil that is created by Him. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 301, Hadees 17508)

٭ When [you are] scared of an enemy, recite Surah Lee-Aeelaaf [Quraysh]. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be safeguarded from every evil. (Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp. 80)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

