اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Parables of Mi’raaj

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ یَا اَیُّھَا النَّاسُ! اِنَّ اَنْجَاَکُمْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مِنْ اَھْوَالِھَا وَمَوَاطِنِھَا اَکْثَرُکُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلٰوۃً فِیْ دَارِ الدُّنْیَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, on the Judgment Day the person who will attain salvation from its terror and

accountability amongst you will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world. (Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Great night

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight is the 27 th night of Rajab-ul-Murajjab 1439 Hijri. Thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has, once again, blessed us with a sacred night full of great virtues and blessings. It is the great night in which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed a great miracle upon our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In today’s Bayan, we will be privileged to briefly listen to what events occurred and what Tajalliyat [Divine manifestations] and luminosity were showered during this luminous night. If we listen to it attentively and with ease of mind, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will grow further in our heart.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Great miracle of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

On the 12 th year of Nubuwwah when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 51 years old, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed the great gift of Mi’raaj upon him and made him visit not only from Masjid-ul-Haraam to Masjid-ul-Aqsa, but also all the seven skies in one part of the night. In addition, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enabled His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to observe His Tajalliyat [Divine manifestations] and luminosity and also blessed him with His sight and conversation.

This blessed event of Mi’raaj occurred on the 27 th of Rajab-ul-Murajjab. A perfect pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ‘Allamah Maulana Makhdoom Muhammad Haashim Thathvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: According to the authentic saying, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visit [Mi’raaj] in the night on the 12 th year of Nubuwwah i.e. before one year of migration on Saturday or Monday night and according to a famous narration on the 27 th Rajab-ul-Murajjab. (Seerah Sayyid-ul-Ambiya, pp. 127)

Opening of blessed chest

In the night of Mi’raaj, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام opened the blessed chest of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His blessed heart was taken out and washed by putting it in a golden tray filled with sacred Zamzam water.

Then [as per the glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] further wisdom, faith and the luminosity of Prophethood were filled in it and then it was put back in the blessed chest and was sewn with a needle. Islamic scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said that opening of the chest occurred four times in the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; the opening of chest that occurred in the night of Mi’raaj was the fourth one. First time, it occurred at the time of his blessed birth, second time, when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 10 years old and third time, on the occasion of the first revelation of the Holy Quran in cave Hira. (Seerah Sayyid-ul-Ambiya, pp. 127)

Riding animal of Mi’raaj’s bridegroom

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Buraaq (whose name was Jarood), a tall and extremely white quadruped [four-footed animal] bigger than the donkey, but smaller than the mule, was brought to me. It would step as far as it could see. I mounted it and reached Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and the place where the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام would tether their riding animals I tethered it. I then entered Masjid-ul-Aqsa and offered two Rak’aat Salah in it.

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 97, Hadees 259)

Led Salah of blessed Ambiya

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the Imam of all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام in this Salah [1] because all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, were gathered in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas [2] to show the greater glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came here, all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام welcomed him. They all requested him to lead the Salah at the time of Salah. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام then held his blessed hand and requested him to move forward and then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led the Salah of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 3, pp. 65, Hadees 3879)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Buseeri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

وَ قَدَّمَتۡكَ جَمِيۡعُ الۡاَنۡبِيَاءِ بِهَا وَ الرُّسُلِ تَقۡدِيۡمَ مَخۡدُوۡمٍ عَلٰي خَدَمِ

i.e. In Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, all the Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام requested the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be in front of them as Makhdoom [a master] is in front of his servants. (Qasidah Burdah, pp. 240)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a great Salah as all the blessed Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام were Muqtadis and our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was Imam and the first Qiblah was the place where this blessed Salah was offered. Surely, no such Salah had ever been offered in the whole universe before, and nor had the sky ever seen such a beautiful scene. Anyway, the great mystery of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم being the first and the last has also been resolved today. This secret has also been discovered and the meaning has become clear like daylight because today he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who is also the last Rasool, is leading the Salah of the previous Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Talking about the same blessed secret, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

نمازِ اَقصٰی میں تھا یہی سِرّ، عِیاں ہوں معنیٔ اوّل آخِر

کہ دَست بستہ ہیں پیچھے حاضِر، جو سلطنت آ گے کر گئے تھے

Explanation of the couplet: In the night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led the Salah of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام in Masjid-ul-Aqsa. The secret behind this was to reveal the meaning of first and the last so that it can become obvious that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who came into the world as the last Nabi, is not less than any Nabi in glory and greatness, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is greater than other Ambiya in glory and greatness. The evidence for this is that all the Ambiya who had declared their Prophethood before are standing behind the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with hands folded [with due respect]. When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى

عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم met the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام present there after the Salah, one by one all the blessed Ambiya praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام said: All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who made me Khaleel [friend] and bestowed Mulk-e-‘Azeem [great kingdom] upon me. Furthermore, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ made me His obedient and the Imam of the people so that I could be obeyed and saved me from the fire and made it cool and peaceful for me.

After him, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام stood up and praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: All praise be to Allah Almighty Who made me His Kaleem [enabled me to converse with Him] and made me kill pharaoh and gave salvation to Bani Israel and made (one of the groups of) my Ummah a nation which would show the right path and do justice justly.

Then praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام stated: All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who gave me a very big kingdom and blessed me with the knowledge of Holy Zaboor and softened iron in my hand and brought mountains and birds under my control that praise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ [with me] and bestowed upon me wisdom and the knowledge of making decision.

Then praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام stated: All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who gave me control over winds and brought Jinns under my control. As per my wish they make high palaces, pictures and trays equal to big ponds and heavy and extremely big cauldrons. Similarly, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ taught me the language of birds and bestowed everything upon me by His grace and made me superior to His many bondmen who have faith and gave me such an empire which no one can get after me and made my kingdom very vast.

Remember, in the Shari’ah of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, picture was not Haraam. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, part 22, Surah Saba, Taht-al-Ayah 13)

After this, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام stated praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who called me His Kalimah and also made me like (Sayyiduna) Aadam (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) in this way that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him with clay and said ‘ كُنۡ ’ (Be) so he became and bestowed book and wisdom and

Tawrat (Torah) and Injeel (Bible) upon me and blessed me with the miracle that I make a bird statue with clay, and then blow onto it so it immediately becomes a bird by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Moreover, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gave me this miracle as well that I cure the born blind and leukoderma patient and bring the dead back to life by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lifted me (without death to the sky) and purified me (from infidels) and gave me and my mother protection from the harm of cursed Satan. Therefore, there is no way for Satan against us.

When all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and mentioned His blessings that were bestowed upon them, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood up and stated praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Who has made me merciful for the entire universe and sent me with glad tidings and warning and revealed Quran to me in which everything has been clearly mentioned and made my Ummah superior to all other Ummahs. My Ummah is the last Ummah and it is the first Ummah (amongst the Ummahs that will enter Paradise) and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed my chest [heart] with vastness (for guidance and Ma’rifat, knowledge and wisdom) and relieved me of the burden (by accepting my intercession on behalf of my Ummah) and exalted my Zikr for me and sent me as the last Nabi.

After our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had completed his blessed conversation, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام stood up and said: These are the great attributes and marvels by virtue of which the status of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is higher and superior to all of us.

(Summarized from: Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 285)

سب سے اَولٰی و اَعلٰی ہمارا نبی سب سے بالا و وَالا ہمارا نبی

بزمِ آخر کا شمع فَروزاں ہُوا نُورِ اَوّل کا جَلوہ ہمارا نبی

خَلق سے اَولِیا اَولِیا سے رُسُل اور رَسُولوں سے اَعلٰی ہمارا نبی

مُلکِ کونین میں اَنبیا تاجدار تاجداروں کا آقا ہمارا نبی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

After meeting the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم set out on the journey to the skies from Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, a cup of wine and a cup of milk were presented to him.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Jibra`eel-e-Ameen (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام) brought wine and milk to me in two separate cups. I took milk [1] ; upon this Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said:

اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيۡ هَدَاكَ لِلۡفِطۡرَ ةِ لَوۡ اَخَذۡتَ الۡخَمۡرَ غَوَتۡ اُمَّتُكَ

i.e. All praise be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who guided you to nature. If you had accepted the cup of wine, your Ummah would have gone astray.

(Sahih Bukhari, pp. 1181, Hadees 4709)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: I was then taken towards the sky. Jibra`eel-e-Ameen (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام) knocked at the door of the sky. It was asked: Who are you? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was asked: Who is with you? He replied: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It was then asked: Has he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Then the door was opened for us. Over there I met Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ; he welcomed me and made Du’a for me. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 97, Hadees 259)

Weeping due to being worried for children

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some people on the right and left of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would look towards his right side he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would smile and would start weeping when he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would look towards his left side. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: The faces on the right and left of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام are his children; children on his right are dwellers of Paradise and on his left are dwellers of Hell. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-us-Salat, pp. 161, Hadees 349)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said: I was then taken to the second sky; Jibra`eel-e-Ameen knocked at the door. It was asked: Who are you? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was asked: Who is with you? He replied: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). It was asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Then the door was opened for us and I met two maternal cousins—Sayyiduna ‘Isa Bin Maryam and Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . They both welcomed me and made Du’a for me.

I was then taken to the third sky. Jibra`eel knocked at the door. A voice came: Who are you? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was then asked: Who is with you? He replied: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). It was asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Then the door was opened for us and there I met Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام who was blessed with half of the beauty. He welcomed me and made Du’a for me.

I was then taken to the fourth sky; Jibra`eel knocked at the door of the sky. It was asked: Who are you? Jibra`eel replied: I am Jibra`eel. He was asked: Who is with you? He replied: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). It was then asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The door was then opened for us and I met Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام ; he welcomed me and made Du’a for me. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said about Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, ‘We have given him a high status.’

I was then taken to the fifth sky; Jibra`eel knocked at the door. It was asked: Who are you? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was asked: Who is with you? Jibra`eel said: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). It was asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? Jibra`eel replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The door of the sky was then opened for us and I met Sayyiduna Haroon عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام ; he welcomed me and made Du’a for me.

I was then taken to the sixth sky. Jibra`eel knocked at the door. It was asked: Who is there? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was then asked: Who is with you? He replied, ‘He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It was asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said that the door was opened for us and I met Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . He welcomed me and made Du’a for me.

Then I was taken to the seventh sky. Jibra`eel knocked at the door. It was asked: Who is there? He replied: I am Jibra`eel. It was asked: Who is with you? He replied: He is [Sayyiduna] Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). It was asked: Has he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم been called? He replied: Yes, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been called. Then the door was opened for us and I met Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام who was leaning against Bayt-ul-Ma’moor [the Qiblah of angels that is in the sky right above the Holy Ka’bah]. Everyday 70 thousand angels visit this Bayt-ul-Ma’moor and the angel that visits once does not get the opportunity to visit it again. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 97, Hadees 259)

Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: (about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) He is your father; please say Salam to him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said Salam and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied to his Salam. Then welcoming the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام stated: ‘ مَرۡحَبًا بِالۡاِبۡنِ الصَّالِحِ وَالنَّبِيِّ الصَّالِحِ ’ i.e. A righteous son and a righteous Nabi is welcomed . (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 977, Hadees 3887)

Having met Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام on the seventh sky, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached near Sidra-tul-Muntaha [1] which is a luminous jujube tree whose root is on the sixth sky and branches over the seventh sky [2] ; its leaves resemble the ears of the elephant and fruits are shaped like a large earthen pitchers of Maqaam-e-Hijr. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: It is Sidra-tul-Muntaha. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw four streams here which would come out from the root

of Sidra-tul-Muntaha; two streams were visible and two were hidden. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: O Jibra`eel! What type of streams are these? Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly replied: Hidden streams are from Paradise and visible streams are the Nile and the Euphrates. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 976, Hadees 3887)

Maqaam-e-Mustawa

As the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم moved forward from Sidra-tul-Muntaha, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام remained at the same place and humbly refused to go further. (Al-Muwahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 2, pp. 381)

Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that it has been stated in some narrations that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: If you need something, you can humbly say it to me, I will mention it in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: Please mention this wish of mine to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ widens my arms, on the Judgment Day more, so that I can make your Ummah cross Siraat Bridge through my arms. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 1, pp. 164)

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

اَہلِ صِراط رُوحِ اَمِیں کو خَبَر کریں

جاتی ہے اُمَّتِ نَبوِی فَرش پَر کریں

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said even more beautifully at another place:

پُل سے اُتارو راہ گُزر کو خَبر نہ ہو

جِبرِیل پَر بِچھائیں تو پَر کو خَبر نہ ہو

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then moved forward alone and reached a place travelling upwards, called Mustawa; over here he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard

the creak of pens [1] by which angels write the daily Divine commands and from Lawh-e-Mahfuz, they write the events of one year in separate books, and then these books are handed over to the concerned angels on the 15 th night of Sha’ban. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 155)

Above even ‘Arsh-e-‘Ula

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then moved ahead of Mustawa and reached ‘Arsh; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went even further upwards and then reached a place where words like ‘ where ’ and ‘ when ’ themselves became useless as these words are used for places and times, but the place our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached had neither any place nor time, hence it is called La-Makaan.

سُراغِ اَین و مَتٰی کہاں تھا، نِشَانِ کَیف و اِلٰی کہاں تھا

نہ کوئی راہی نہ کوئی ساتھی نہ سنگِ منزِل نہ مَرحلے تھے

اَین: Where مَتٰی: When کَیف: How اِلٰی: To which place

سنگِ منزِل: The mark of a stone that signals the destination

Explanation of couplet: In the night of Mi’raaj, where did the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم go? When did he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم go? How did he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم go and to which place did he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم go? Who can answer these questions because the place where the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached in the night of Mi’raaj had no concept of ‘when’ and ‘where’, no sign of ‘how’ and ‘where’, no one was with him, nor was there any clue to any destination. All these things are related to the place which was totally different.

Dear Islamic brothers! Here Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed that special closeness upon His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which no one had ever had nor will have. In Ayahs 8, 9 & 10 of Surah An-Najm, part 27, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

ثُمَّ دَنَا فَتَدَلّٰىۙ(۸) فَكَانَ قَابَ قَوْسَیْنِ اَوْ اَدْنٰىۚ(۹) فَاَوْحٰۤى اِلٰى عَبْدِهٖ مَاۤ اَوْحٰىؕ(۱۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then the Spectacle became closer, and came down in full view. So the distance between the Spectacle and the beloved was only two arms’ length, or even less. So Allah divinely revealed to His bondman, whatever He divinely revealed.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written about these blessed moments in Qasidah Mi’rajiyah: How beautiful was the view of that moment when special closeness was bestowed upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written:

بڑھ اے مُحَمَّد، قریں ہو احمد، قریب آ سرورِ مُمَجَّد

نِثار جاؤں یہ کیا نِدا تھی، یہ کیا سَمَاں تھا، یہ کیا مزے تھے

تَبارَکَ الله شان تیری تجھی کو زیبا ہے بے نیازی

کہیں تو وہ جوشِ لَن تَرَانی کہیں تقاضے وِصال کے تھے

خِرَد سے کہدو کہ سر جھکا لے گماں سے گزرے گزرنے والے

پڑے ہیں یاں خود جِہَت کو لالے کسے بتائے کدھر گئے تھے

اُدھر سے پیہم تقاضے آنا اِدھر تھا مُشکل قدم بڑھانا

جلال و ہیبت کا سامنا تھا جمال و رَحمت اُبھارتے تھے

بڑھے تو لیکن جھجھکتے ڈرتے حیا سے جھکتے ادب سے رُکتے

جو قرب انھیں کی رَوِش پہ رکھتے تو لاکھوں منزل کے فاصلے تھے

وہی ہے اوّل وہی ہے آخِر وہی ہے باطِن وہی ہے ظاہِر

اُسی کے جلوے اُسی سے ملنے اُسی سے اُس کی طرف گئے تھے

It is stated in Salam-e-Raza:

کس کو دیکھا یہ موسٰی سے پوچھے کوئی

آنکھ والوں کی ہمت پہ لاکھوں سلام

It is stated in Surah An-Najm:

مَا زَاغَ الْبَصَرُ وَ مَا طَغٰى(۱۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The sight did not shift, nor did it cross the limits. (Part 27, Surah An-Najm, Ayah 17)

Sayyiduna Imam Ja’far Sadiq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent Divine revelation to His bondman and this Divine revelation was [directly] without any means as there was no one between Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved. These are the secrets between Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool about which no one knows except them. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, part 27, Surah An-Najm, Ayah 10)

(Besides secrets), Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: What is that need about which Jibra`eel-e-Ameen humbly said to you? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم humbly said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, You know it better. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: O Beloved! I have accepted his need but for the people, who love you, befriend you and have your company. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 1, pp. 169)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made 50 Salahs Fard (obligatory) for me in one day and night. When I reached Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام he said: What has your Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ made Fard (obligatory) for your Ummah? I said: 50 Salahs have been made Fard (obligatory) for every day and night. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام said: Go to your Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ and request Him to decrease them, because your Ummah will not be able to offer 50 Salahs as I have already tested Bani Israel. [The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said]: I returned to my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ and humbly said: O my Rab (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Decrease the number of Salah for my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ decreased five Salahs. I reached (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام and informed him

that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had decreased five Salahs. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام said: Your Ummah even will not be able to offer these Salahs; go to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and request Him to decrease further. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I kept on coming to (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام and going to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (i.e. every time Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ decreased some number of Salahs, despite this (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام kept on sending me to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to get Salah decreased further) until [when only five Salahs were left] Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! These are five Salahs for a day and night and every Salah will have 10 times more reward, (therefore as per reward) these five Salahs are equal to fifty Salahs. (Further favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is that), the person who intends to perform good deed and is unable to do it, so for him (just for his good intention) one virtue will be written and if he performs that good deed, so ten virtuous deeds will be written for him and if someone intends to commit bad deed, and does not commit that bad deed, so no sin will be written in his Book of Deeds (for the crime of bad intention). However, if he commits the bad deed, then one sin will be written.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: I then reached (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام and informed him of these commands. He stated the same thing this time as well i.e. go to your Rab and request Him to decrease further. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I said to (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام: I have been to my Rab (for getting number of Salah decreased) so many times that now I feel shy (to go for this).

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 97, Hadees 259)

Mentioning the first part of Mi’raaj journey of His Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in part 15 of the Holy Quran, Ayah 1 of Surah Bani Israel, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

سُبْحٰنَ الَّذِیْۤ اَسْرٰى بِعَبْدِهٖ لَیْلًا مِّنَ الْمَسْجِدِ الْحَرَامِ اِلَى الْمَسْجِدِ الْاَقْصَا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Purity is to Him Who took His bondman in a part of the night from the Sacred mosque to the Aqsa mosque.

Remember, the journey of Mi’raaj of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not begin from Masjid-ul-Haraam and end in Masjid-ul-Aqsa, but rather it has been proved by the Holy Quran and Hadees that not only did the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visit all seven skies in the blessed night of Mi’raaj, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also visited further than this i.e. reached the place where Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wanted.

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated with reference to Sharh Hamziyah in Fatawa Razawiyyah: The way Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام was privileged to have conversation; similarly, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with the same, ‘Asra night’, whereas, great Divine closeness and Divine sight with the naked eye were additional.

How can we compare Koh-e-Toor (Mountain of Toor), on which Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام implored to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with Maafauq-ul-‘Arsh (above ‘Arsh) where Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ held a conversation with our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said about the same book that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم physically in the state of wakefulness visited the skies, then Sidra-tul-Muntaha, Maqaam-e-Mustawa, then ‘Arsh and Rafraf and then had the blessed Sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (in the night of Mi’raaj). (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 646)

However, the blessed part of the Ayah in which Mi’raaj has been mentioned is itself an extremely wonderful miracle as there was a considerable distance between Masjid-ul-Haraam and Masjid-ul-Aqsa, therefore, for a common person, it is totally unconvincing to go to Masjid-ul-Aqsa overnight and then return during the same night, even it was not possible for anyone to travel the distance of only one side in one night.

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: [Journey] To Aqsa has been mentioned because, in that era, there was no other Masjid so far away as Masjid-ul-Aqsa; it was Masjid-ul-Aqsa that was the farthest away from Makkah Mukarramah; there was a distance of more than a month between Masjid-ul-Haraam and Masjid-ul-Aqsa.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, part 15 Surah Bani Israel, Taht-al-Ayah 1, vol. 5, pp. 114)

Siddeeq in the sight of Jibra`eel-e-Ameen

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام in the night of Mi’raaj: ‘ يَا جِبۡرِيۡلُ! اِنَّ قَوۡمِيۡ يَتَّهِمُوۡنِيۡ وَلَا يُصَدِّقُوۡنِيۡ ’ i.e. O Jibra`eel! My Ummah will slander me and will not testify for me. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: ‘ اِنِ اتَّهَمَكَ قَوۡمُكَ فَاِنَّ اَبَا بَكۡرٍ يُصَدِّقُكَ وَهُوَ الصِّدِّيۡق ’ i.e. If your Ummah slander you, it does not matter, Abu Bakr will testify for you because he is Siddeeq. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 5, pp. 226, Hadees 7148, 7173)

The same thing, in the morning of Mi’raaj night, happened when our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم standing near Hateem-e-Ka’bah mentioned this wonderful Mi’raaj to the people, the faith of true Muslims became stronger, but hypocrites and polytheists were deeply shocked as to how such a long journey was made only in one night.

One who testifies without seeing

Polytheists came running Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and started saying: ‘ هَلۡ لَكَ اِلٰى صَاحِبِكَ يَزۡعُمُ اَنَّهُ اَسۡرٰى بِهِ اللَّيۡلَةَ اِلَى بَيۡتِ الۡمَقۡدَس ؟ ’ i.e. Can you testify for whatever your friend has said that he had visited Masjid-ul-Aqsa from Masjid-ul-Haraam overnight? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ اَوَ قَالَ ذٰلِكَ ؟ ’ Has the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم really stated it?’ They said: Yes. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘ لَئِنۡ قَالَ ذٰلِكَ لَقَدۡ صَدَقَ ’ i.e. It is definitely true if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated it.

They said: ‘ اَوَ تُصَدِّقُهُ اَنَّهُ ذَهَبَ اللَّيۡلَةَ اِلٰى بَيۡتِ الۡمَقۡدَس وَ جَاءَ قَبۡلَ اَنۡ يُصۡبِحَ ؟ ’ i.e. Do you also testify for this astonishing thing as well that he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) went to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas last night and returned before the morning? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ نَعَمۡ! اِنِّيۡ لَاُصَدِّقُهُ فِيۡمَا هُوَ اَبۡعَدُ مِنۡ ذٰلِكَ اُصَدِّقُهُ بِخَبۡرِ السَّمَاءِ فِيۡ غَدۡوَةٍ اَوۡ رَوۡحَةٍ ’ Yes! I also testify for the heavenly news of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in

the morning and evening. Certainly, those things are more surprising and astounding than this one. Thus Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became famous as ‘Siddeeq’ afterwards. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 25, Hadees 4515)

Some evil minded people started raising different types of questions in order to reject this great miracle such as:

It is stated in a blessed Hadees that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ قُرَيۡشٌ تَسۡاَلُنِي عَنۡ مَسۡرَايَ ’ Quraysh were asking questions about my Mi’raaj Journey. ‘ فَسَاَلَتۡنِي عَنۡ اَشۡيَاءَ مِنۡ بَيۡتِ الۡمَقۡدَسِ لَمۡ اُثۡبِتۡهَا ’ So they asked me questions about the things of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, which (due to being unnecessary) I did not remember. ‘ فَكُرِبۡتُ كُرۡبَةً مَا كُرِبۡتُ مِثۡلَهُ قَطُّ ’ I was, due to this, so much sad that I had never been so much sad before. ‘ فَرَفَعَهُ اللّٰهُ لِيۡ اَنۡظُرُ اِلَيۡهِ مَا يَسۡاَلُوۡنِي عَنۡ شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا اَنۡبَاۡتُهُمۡ بِهِ ’ so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ raised Bayt-ul-Muqaddas for my sake and I started looking at it, therefore I kept telling them about what the Quraysh were asking me. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 106, Hadees 278)

About the questions of polytheists of Makkah, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that the questions were also useless. For example, how many pillars and steps are there in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas? Which direction is the pulpit? It is quite obvious that such things cannot be remembered instead of seeing many times so how is it possible to remember them after seeing them only once? Unbelievers said: We do not know whatever you are talking about ‘Arsh and Kursi, but we have seen Bayt-ul-Muqaddas; tell us the signs of this place, therefore Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ divided this Mi’raaj into two parts: One from (Masjid-ul-Haraam) to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, then (second) from Bayt-ul-Muqaddas to ahead of ‘Arsh so that people could get information about first part of Mi’raaj with many evidences/arguments. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 158)

[So when particulars of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas were asked so] the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was a little worried; though the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not pay careful attention to its particulars. Furthermore, it was a dark night. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

commanded Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام so he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام lifted Bayt-ul-Muqaddas on his wings and placed it near the house of Sayyiduna Aqeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in Makkah Mukarramah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم kept looking at it and answering their questions. (Remember) Bringing Bayt-ul-Muqaddas to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after lifting is the miracle of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as the throne of Bilqees [was presented in the court after being lifted] is the miracle of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . (Seerah Sayyid-ul-Ambiya, pp. 131)

Anyway, when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم answered all the questions of polytheists of Makkah about Bayt-ul-Muqaddas [so since they were testing this miracle through their wisdom instead of believing in it, or rather they were trying to prove it false out of their malice and enmity], they started asking about the signs of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and despite being disgraced they remained obstinate. Moreover, for further test they started asking about the caravan that went to Syria from Makkah Mukarramah for trade.

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told them that the caravan was found between such and such a place of blessed Makkah and Syria; it had such and such a number of men walking on foot and such and such a number of camels. They then asked a question from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as to when they would enter Makkah Mukarramah upon their return from Syria; so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied that the caravan would enter Makkah Mukarramah on Wednesday, on such and such a date of this month; a camel of dark grey colour, whose hessian beneath saddle will be black, will be in the front of them, loaded with two sacks. Whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated exactly the same thing happened. Upon the occurrence of his miracles, the polytheists were ashamed, but they did not embrace Islam. (Ibid)

Observations of Mi’raaj night

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw millions of wonders in the night of Mi’raaj. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to Paradise, saw heavenly palaces of his Ummati [followers], saw Hell and also the terrible torments of Hell-dwellers. Then for the persuasion and menace of his Ummati [followers], he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned some of them so that after listening to the

terrible torments of the Hell-dwellers, Ummati [followers] may try to protect themselves from the hell by performing virtuous and good deeds and after listening to the everlasting favours of Paradise Ummati [followers] may try to get them. Let’s listen to some parables and observations briefly:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I saw ‘the reward for Sadaqah is ten times more and the reward for lending money is 18 times more’ written on the door of Paradise in the night of Mi’raaj’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw magnificent tents like a dome made of pearls which are for the Imams and Muazzins of his Ummah, a few towering palaces which are for those who suppress their anger and forgive and a palace decorated with the silk [a special kind of cloth] curtains that is for Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the footfall of Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ while visiting paradise. Houris of Paradise said Salam to him in the night of Mi’raaj. In the night of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by such a person who was shrouded in the Noor of ‘Arsh; he was the fortunate person who would do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ all the time in the world, love Masjid, and never became the cause of his parents being abused or disgraced.

In the night of Mi’raaj, one of the extremely painful torments our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw was that the jaws of some people were being opened; their flesh after being cut from their bodies was being pushed into their mouths with blood; these were the unfortunate people who would backbite and find fault with people. In the night of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw some people whose bellies were as big as houses in which snakes were being seen from outside; these unfortunate people were usurers. In the night of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went towards such people whose heads were being crushed by stones; these were the unfortunate people whose heads would get heavy due to Salah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw those who would give Khutbah (deliver speeches) to Ummah and those who did not use to act upon what they would say and those who did not act upon the Holy Quran after they had recited it; their lips were being constantly cut with fire scissors. In the night of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some people hanging with fire branches; these were the unfortunate people who would abuse their parents in the world.

Repent…!

Dear Islamic brothers! Just think about these torments and then see your powerlessness and weakness. Alas! We are so weak that we become restless by a slight headache or fever, so then how can we bear these terrible torments of the Hereafter! Therefore, we still have time to have fear and those who do not pay Zakah after it being Fard (obligatory) for them should repent of it instantly and pay their Zakah as soon as possible after calculating the total number of years correctly they have not paid Zakah. Otherwise, if they lose this opportunity and meet their death before making repentance, then they will get no more chance.

کر لے توبہ ربّ کی رحمت ہے بڑی قبر میں ورنہ سزا ہوگی کڑی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Arrangement of I’tikaf

Dear Islamic brothers! Another excellent source of staying safe from sins is to associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, travel with the 3-day Madani Qafilah every month, act upon Madani In’amaat and attend the I’tikaf of the whole month of blessed Ramadan or the last ten days of blessed Ramadan arranged under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami. The blessed month of Ramadan is very near and it has great blessings! The opportunities to get recorded abundant virtuous deeds in the Book of Deeds by performing worship, reciting the Holy Quran and doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly increase to a great extent. We should not only make intention to observe the I’tikaf of the whole month of Ramadan arranged by Dawat-e-Islami for protecting ourselves from sins and spending day and night in virtuous deeds, but we should also prepare other Islamic brothers by making efforts upon them. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنِِ اعْتَکَفَ اِیْمانًا وَّاِحْتِسَابًا غُفِرَلَہ مَا تَقَدَّمَ مِنْ ذَنْبِہٖ ’ i.e. The person who observes I’tikaf with faith and the intention to gain reward, his all previous sins will be forgiven. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 516, Hadees 8480)

یا خدا ماہِ رمضاں کے صدقے سچّی توبہ کی توفیق دیدے

نیک بن جاؤں جی چاہتا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! Observe I’tikaf of the entire month of Ramadan every year if possible, otherwise observe it at least once in entire life. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly perform worship especially in the blessed month of Ramadan. Since the night of Qadr has been concealed in the blessed month of Ramadan, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once observed I’tikaf of the whole month. It is also a great privilege to stay in a Masjid; an I’tikaf-observing person is great because he frequently stays in a Masjid after leaving all his activities and occupations for attaining Divine pleasure.

It is stated in Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri: The virtues of I’tikaf are absolutely apparent because in it a person makes himself totally busy with the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for attaining His pleasure and keeps himself away from all the preoccupations of the world which are an obstacle in the way of closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . All the time of an I’tikaf-observing person is spent in offering Salah or similar to the act of offering Salah (because waiting for Salah also has the reward like Salah) and the real purpose of I’tikaf is to wait for Salah with Jama’at and I’tikaf-observing person resembles the angels who do not disobey the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and who carry out whatever commands they are given. He also resembles the ones who perform the Tasbih (glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) all the time and do not get fed up with it.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 212)

Dear Islamic brothers! You must have noticed that one gets many opportunities to perform virtuous deeds during I’tikaf. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, many Majalis are regularly formed and responsible Islamic brothers are regularly appointed to organize the system of I’tikaf in the blessed month of Ramadan. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the collective I’tikaf of the whole month and the last ten days of Ramadan is arranged in hundreds of Masajid of different countries all over the world. Thousands of

Islamic brothers observe these I’tikaf and are privileged to offer five-time Salah with Jama’at along with performing other Nafl acts of worship.

Furthermore, in I’tikaf, the Shar’i rulings on Wudu and Ghusl, Salah, Sawm and other acts are also taught. One gets plenty of information through the interesting answers, full of knowledge and wisdom, to the questions asked from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه by means of two Madani Muzakarahs daily. Moreover, many I’tikaf-observing Islamic brothers travel with Madani Qafilah for learning and teaching Sunnah in the company of the devotees of Rasool as the blessed month of Ramadan ends on moon-sighting night. Many fortunate devotees of Ramadan are also privileged to undergo courses like ‘Deed Reformation Course’, ‘12 Madani Activities Course’, ‘Faizan-e-Namaz Course’, ‘Imamat Course’, ‘Mudarris Course’, ‘Madani Tarbiyyati Course’, etc.

نیکیوں کا تمہیں خوب جذبہ ملے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

بھائی گر چاہتے ہو ”نَمازیں پڑھوں“ مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

Madani donations

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Masjid-filling movement of devotees of Rasool, is flourishing all over the world. Dawat-e-Islami is carrying out Madani activities for serving Islam approximately in 104 departments. Millions or rather billions of rupees are spent annually only on Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for boys and girls), Madrasa-tul-Madinah (boys and girls) and Madani Channel. Through Jami’a-tul-Madinah so far, thousands of Islamic scholars have been prepared who are making their contributions to the eminence and exaltation of Islam by serving in different departments.

Under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult [Islamic brothers] and Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult [Islamic sisters] have been established to teach the Holy Quran with correct rules of pronunciation and articulation to Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters at home and abroad free of charge; whereas Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys) and Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for girls) have been established to provide the education of Hifz and Naazirah to Madani children (boys and girls). Moreover, Madrasa-tul-

Madinah online has also been established for the places where teachers for teaching the Holy Quran are not easily available. In many Madaris-ul-Madinah, the facilities of lodging and food are also provided to Madani children (boys). Non-boarding Madaris-ul-Madinah have the duration of 8 hours, whereas part time Madaris-ul-Madinah with a duration of 1 and 2 hours are also functioning. Besides giving Zakah, Sadaqat, Madani donations for the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami, collect Madani donations from your relatives, neighbours and friends by telling them the virtues of spending in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to the book “Faizan-e-Mi’raaj”

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! To spread the blessings of this miracle Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah of Dawat-e-Islami, a non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, has compiled a book named ‘ Faizan-e-Mi’raaj ’, containing the complete Event of Mi’raaj, blessed Ayahs and Ahadees about it and the Madani pearls derived from them including the mention of the observations of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the event of Mi’raaj. By studying this book, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, not only will one develop the devotion to Rasool, but he will also get plenty of information.

It is a Madani request to all Islamic brothers to buy and study this book definitely. This book can also be downloaded from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

