اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of Durood and Salam

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep getting the reward of I’tikaf. Remember! There is no Shar’i permission to eat and drink, sleep or do Sahari and Iftari even to drink Zamzam water and the water on which Dam has been made in a Masjid. However, if the intention of I’tikaf is made, all these acts will become permissible. One should not make intention to observe I’tikaf only to eat, drink or sleep, but rather he should do it for pleasing Allah Almighty. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: If someone wants to eat, drink, sleep in a Masjid, he should make intention to observe I’tikaf, do Zikr of Allah Almighty for some time, then whatever he wants he can do (i.e. now if he wants to eat, drink or sleep, he can do so.).

Excellence of Durood and Salam

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

زَیِّـنُوْا مَجَالِسَکُمْ بِالصَّلَاةِ عَلَـیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَـکُمْ عَلَـیَّ نُوْرٌ لَّـکُمْ یَـوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ

i.e. Adorn your gatherings by reciting Salat upon me, because your recitation of Salat upon me will be Noor for you on the Day of Judgement. (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 280, Hadees 4580)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s, first of all, make good intentions for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and for attaining rewards. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ Before [listening to] Bayan the more righteous intentions one makes, the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

۔1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

۔2 Instead of resting against a wall, etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

۔3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

۔4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by saying Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sha’ban is my month

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the blessed month of Sha’ban is ongoing. We should respect and honour this month, and perform worship and recite the Holy Quran abundantly in it.

This month is associated with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: شَعْبَانُ شَہْرِیْ وَرَمَضَانُ شَہْـرُ اللّٰہِ i.e. Sha’ban is my month and Ramadan is the month of Allah Almighty.

(Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 301, Hadees 4889)

We should also recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam. It is stated in Ghunya-tut-Talibeen: Salat is recited abundantly upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam and this is the month of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ghunya-tut-Talibeen, vol. 1, pp. 342)

It is stated in a narration: The one who recites Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 700 times daily in Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, Allah Almighty will allocate some angels who will convey this Salat in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Due to it, the blessed soul of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will get pleased. Then, Allah Almighty will command those angels that keep supplicating for the forgiveness of this person until the Day of Judgement. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 395)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Because this is our Beloved Rasool’s month and the month of reciting Salat upon him, so in the same relation, let’s today listen to the virtues of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Glad tidings of freedom from the Hellfire

Sayyid Mahmood Kurdi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: My beloved mother told me that her father (i.e. grandfather of Sayyid Mahmood Kurdi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه), whose name was Muhammad, left me a will saying that ‘when I pass away and have been given a bath, then a small green coloured letter will fall on my shroud from the roof. It will be written on it that ‘ ھٰذِہٖ بَرَاءَ ۃُ مُحَمَّدِ نِ العَالِمِ بِعِلْمِہٖ مِنَ النَّار ’ i.e. Muhammad, who is a scholar, has attained freedom from the Hellfire due to knowledge.” Place that small letter inside my shroud.’ Therefore, that letter fell down after the bath was given to him. When people had read it, I placed it on his chest.

One special thing about the letter was that the way it was readable from the front of the page, similarly, it was readable from the back of the page as well. I asked my beloved mother that ‘what action did grandfather use to perform?’ My mother replied: ‘ کَانَ اَکْثَرُ عَمَلِہٖ دَوَامُ الذِّکْرِمَعَ کَثْرَۃِ الصَّلٰوۃِ عَلَی النَّبِی ’ i.e. What he used to do was that along with performing Zikr of Allah Almighty, he would always recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly too. (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 152)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard that what a great action reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is? By the virtue of it, a letter of attaining salvation from the Hellfire was revealed before people. Those who would have witnessed this blessing of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with their own eyes, they would have developed a mind-set of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

We should also develop the habit of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly while walking, sitting down, getting up and at all times. Several books have been written on the virtues of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Remember! Ink of pen can finish, words can also come to an end, but the virtues of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم still cannot be duly mentioned. Reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a beautiful action that even Allah Almighty and His angels also perform this action. Therefore, Allah Almighty says in part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah no. 56:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ وَ مَلٰٓىٕكَتَهٗ یُصَلُّوْنَ عَلَى النَّبِیِّؕ-یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا صَلُّوْا عَلَیْهِ وَ سَلِّمُوْا تَسْلِیْمًا(۵۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah and His angels send blessings on the Conveyor of the unseen (Prophet). O Believers! (You too) send blessings and abundant salutations upon him.

It is mentioned in the commentary of the Holy Quran, namely Ruh-ul-Bayan: After the revelation of this blessed Ayah, the enlightened face of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم emanated the rays of Noor out of joy, and said: ‘ Congratulate me, because I have been given that blessed Ayah which is more beloved to me than this world and whatever it contains.’ (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 223) Hol

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘This blessed Ayah (i.e. the Ayah of Durood) is an obvious Na’at of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In this Ayah, people with Iman [faith] have been commanded to send Salat and Salam upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The interesting fact is that Allah Almighty has issued various commands in the Glorious Quran. For example, offer Salah, observe Sawm, perform Hajj etc., but Allah Almighty did not mention anywhere that I and my angels also perform this action, so O people with Iman, you should also perform it. This has been said only for Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If there is any such action that Allah Almighty performs, angels also perform and Muslims have also been commanded to perform it, then it is only sending Salat upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 183; summarised)

Agar koi apna bhala chahta hay

Usay chaahay jis ko Khuda chahta hay

Durood un pay bhejo salam un pay bhejo

Yehi Mu`minaun say Khuda chahta hay

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Over here, keep in mind the fact that although the same word has been referred to Allah Almighty, angels and believers, but its meanings change depending on whom it is referred to.

Imam Baghawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Salat of Allah Almighty is to ‘shower mercy’, whereas our Salat means to supplicate for the mercy.’ (Sharh-us-Sunnah, vol. 2, pp. 280)

One question arises here that when Allah Almighty is showering mercies upon His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Himself, then why did He command us to recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, i.e. supplicate for mercy? You ask for something that you do not already possess. So, when mercies are already descending, then why have we been commanded to supplicate for them?

While explaining this, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: O reciters of Salat and Salam! Never ever assume that My (Lord) mercies are dependent upon your supplications to be showered upon My Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and that My beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is in need of your recitation of Salat and Salam. Regardless of whether you recite Salat upon him or not, My mercies continuously keep showering upon him. Your birth took place now and you started reciting Salat and Salam recently. Mercies are showering upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم since even ‘then’ and ‘when’ did not exist. Mercies are being showered upon him even before the existence of ‘where’ and ‘there’ . Making you recite Salat and Salam upon him, i.e. making you to supplicate for mercy to be showered upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is indeed for your own benefit. You will recite Salat and Salam upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and gain abundant of reward for it. (Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 184; summarised)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! Undoubtedly, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not need the recitation of our Salat. In fact, it benefits the reciter of Salat. More a person recites Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, higher the reward will be gathered in his Book of Deeds accordingly. But Satan would never want us to increase our righteous deeds by reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly. It is possible that he brings an

evil thought in your mind that Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم shall not be recited at such and such time, it is forbidden to recite it in a certain state, or such and such Salat shall not be recited, or Salat shall not be recited before Azan etc. If so, then remove this satanic whisper from your heart straightaway and keep reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly whilst sitting down, getting up, walking around etc., because reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance is the sign of the slaves of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna ‘Ali Bin Hussain رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘ عَلَامَۃُ اَھْلِ السُّنَّۃِکَثْرَۃُالصَّلَاۃِ عَلٰی رَسُوْلِ اللّٰہ ’ i.e. Reciting Salat abundantly upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the sign of Ahl-us-Sunnah. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 131)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the grace of Allah Almighty, devotees of Rasool recite Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before the Azan, after the Azan, after Salat-ul-Jumu’ah and at various other occasions. Moreover, there are also some fortunate individuals who have the privilege of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even at the time of their demise.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Command of [reciting] Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool is without any restriction

Dear Islamic brothers! Satan the accursed not only tries to stop Muslims from various other righteous actions, but also manipulates their minds in regards to reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before and after Azan. Remember! Allah Almighty stated in the 56 th Ayah of Surah Ahzaab in part 22 without the restriction of any time:

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Believers! (You too) send blessings and abundant salutations upon him.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! For reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance, righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have mentioned different numbers for our convenience. If we make our routine to recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by specifying any number out of them, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will gain numerous blessings of Salat. In this regard, let us listen to some sayings of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Sayings of righteous predecessors in relation to the number of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool

۔1 ‘Allamah Yusuf Nabhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says while narrating a saying of a saint: ‘Minimum number for reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance is 350 times in the day and 350 times in the night.’ (Afdal-us-Salawaat ‘Ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 30)

۔2 Sayyiduna Imam Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates a saying of some blessed scholars in “Kashf-ul-Ghummah”: ‘Minimum number for reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance is at least 700 times every night and 700 times every day.’ (Kashf-ul-Ghummah, vol. 1, pp. 327)

۔3 The renowned Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Sheikh Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Do recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at least 1000 times everyday, or else consider 500 to be sufficient. Some saints have advised to recite it 300 times daily and some have advised to recite it 200 times after Fajr and ‘Asr Salah each. Develop a habit of reciting some before going to sleep as well.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further states: ‘One should definitely recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at least 100 times daily.”

Some Salats are short and easy such as (صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ) that one can complete the count of 1000 easily and quickly by reciting this very Salat. The one who is used to reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance, reciting Salat becomes easier for him. Anyhow, a devotee of Rasool receives such sweetness and delight by

reciting Salat and Salam upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that it strengthens his soul. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 231, 232; summarised)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! Reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 100 times, 300 times daily, 200 times in the morning and evening each, or even 1000 times daily is not difficult at all. Now the question here arises that how our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 10,000 times, rather, 40,000 times daily? How would they get time for their other acts of worship, conducting domestic chores and fulfilling financial needs, propagating Sunnahs, eating food and having rest etc.? Answer to this is that the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were not entrapped in the love of this world, and nor were they used to passing time (in useless activities). Hence, they ended up having a lot of time after their necessary chores, such as eating, drinking and earning Halal sustenance; they would spend (the time saved so) in performing Zikr and reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Whereas, some people have fallen prey to the deception of Satan and considered this life of few days to be everything. They are lost in the luxuries of this temporary world at all times.

Alas! We pay no heed at all towards the long life of grave, and the severe and difficult matters of the Hereafter. Righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی always remained mindful of the fact that the life in this world is for very few days. This will eventually perish. Life after death is everything. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these Allah-loving people spend their lives according to the golden principles of Islam, whilst acting upon the Sunnahs of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and by reciting Salat upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Then, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also does not leave them alone in the midst of difficulties and calamities. Rather, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم comes at the time of difficulty and also helps them. Let us listen to a faith refreshing event in this relation.

Ship remained safe from sinking

Sayyiduna Sheikh Musa Zareer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I was travelling with a group of people in a ship. All of a sudden, the ship was overtaken by a storm and started shaking. We were sure that the ship will sink shortly and we will all die. In the meanwhile, I fell drowsy and asleep for a few moments. I saw that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came in my dream recited Durood-e-Tunajjina and said to me: ‘You and your companions should recite this Salat 1,000 times.’ When I woke up, I gathered all my friends and started reciting this Salat. We had recited it only 300 times and the storm started to settle down, and it gradually stopped. Sea surface became normal and all those boarded on the ship attained salvation by the virtue of this Salat. (Al-Qawl-ul-Badi’, pp. 415, Summarised)

Durood-e-Tunajjina

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ صَلَاۃً تُنَجِّیْنَا بِہَا مِنْ جَمِیْعِ الْاَھْوَالِ وَالْاٰفَاتِ وَتَقْضِیْ لَنَا بِہَا جَمِیْعَ الْحَاجَاتِ وَتُطَہِّرُنَا بِہَا مِنْ جَمِیْعِ السَّیِّئَاتِ وَتَرْفَعُنَابِہَا اَعْلَی الدَّرَجَاتِ وَتُبَلِّغُنَا بِہَا اَقْصَی الْغَایَاتِ مِنْ جَمِیْعِ الْخَیْرَاتِ فِی الْحَیَاۃِ وَبَعْدَ الْمَمَاتِ اِنَّكَ عَلٰی کُلِّ شَیْئٍ قَدِیْرٌ

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! We should keep reciting Salat and Salam upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم whether it is day or night. We shall not observe heedlessness in this regard at all, because the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has countless favours upon us. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم prostrated as soon as he came to this world and the following Du’a was on his lips: ‘ رَبِّ ھَبْ لِیْ اُمَّتِی ’ i.e. O Lord Almighty! Forgive my Ummah.” (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 712, summarised)

Imam Zurqaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had lifted his fingers in such a way as someone imploring would lift his fingers.’

(Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 1, pp. 211)

‘ رَبِّ ھَبْ لِی اُمَّتِی ’ Kehtay Huway payda huway

Haq nay fermaya kay bakhsha‘ الصَّلٰوۃُ والسَّلام ’

(Qabalah-e-Bakhshish, pp. 94)

At the time of embarking upon the journey of Mi’raaj, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم broke into tears remembering the sinners of his Ummah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remembered the sinners of his Ummah even at the time of beholding Allah Almighty and while being blessed with special bestowments.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 581, Hadees 7517)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remained worried for the sinners of his Ummah throughout his life (from time to time). (Muslim, pp. 109, Hadees346)

When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was lowered into his blessed grave, the blessed lips were moving. Some blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ brought their ears close to the blessed lips and heard him saying اُمَّتِیْ اُمَّتِی (i.e. my Ummah, my Ummah) slowly. Eve n on the Day of Judgement, one will attain refuge only under his mercy. All the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام will say ‘ نَفْسِی نَفْسِی اِذْھَبُـوْا اِلٰی غَیْرِی ’ (i.e. today, I am thinking about my own self. Go to somebody else). And the merciful Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be saying ‘ یَارَبِّ اُمَّتِیْ اُمَّتِیْ ’ (i.e. O Lord Almighty! Forgive my Ummah). (Muslim, pp. 105, Hadees 326)

Therefore, when the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only thought about his sinful Ummah all his life but will also intercede for us on the Day of Judgement, then having devotion and honouring him require us to follow his blessed Sunnahs while proving to be his Ummatis and that we shall never be heedless in reciting Salat and Salam upon him.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loves us immensely. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presents pleas and supplicates for the forgiveness of his sinful Ummah in the court of Allah Almighty at all times. Undoubtedly, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has innumerable favours upon us. How is it possible for us to

thank him? All we can do is to send Salat and Salaam in his blessed court, i.e. supplicate for mercy to be showered upon him. It is like beggars supplicating for those who are generous.

‘Weekly Madani Halqah’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to increase the love of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in your hearts and to develop the habit of reciting Salat and Salam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. ‘Weekly Madani Halqah’ is also one of the 12 Madani activities. In Weekly Madani Halqahs, Madani Halqahs are conducted on the division level for people speaking different languages. The schedule of weekly Madani Halqah contains Tilawat, Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring Bayan, Du’a and Durood o Salaam. More than one Madani Halqahs can be conducted in any city/division at different locations and on different days. For the development of religious activities, support the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the virtue of this Madani environment, various strayed people have been reformed. For persuasion, let us listen to one Madani parable.

Blessings of the Madani environment

An Islamic brother from Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore, Pakistan) was lost in the valleys of sins. During his school days, an Islamic brother used to frequently visit his elder brother. One day, he invited him to come in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami. Upon his invitation, he went to the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. He liked it very much. Therefore, he started attending it regularly. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the virtue of it, he started offering Salah punctually. He also adorned his head with the blessed ‘Imamah [turban]. Some of his family members strongly opposed it but the attraction of the Madani environment and beautiful conduct of the devotees of Rasool kept bringing him closer to Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. Listening to the Sunnah-inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madina comforted him and made

him gain courage. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Madani environment gradually established in his home too.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! Another great benefit of reciting Salat upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also that one will attain the blessed intercession of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by its virtue on the Day of Judgement.

Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃٌ لَّہٗ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃ ’ i.e. the one who recites Salat upon me on the day of Friday, it will be on my mercy to intercede for him on the Day of Judgement. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2236)

Dear Islamic brothers! Regarding the Day of Judgement, it is stated in part 29, Surah Al-Ma’aarij, Ayah no. 4:

كَانَ مِقْدَارُهٗ خَمْسِیْنَ اَلْفَ سَنَةٍۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: That punishment will befall the disbelievers on a day; the duration of which is fifty thousand years (according to worldly calculation of time).

That day, sun will be like blazing fire. Earth will be made of blazing copper. Everyone will be drenched in their own sweat. Tongues will dry out due to the intensity of thirst. Everyone will be just bothered about themselves only. In such difficult times, there will be no one to look after you.

It is stated in part 30, Surah ‘Abasa, Ayahs 34 to 36:

یَوْمَ یَفِرُّ الْمَرْءُ مِنْ اَخِیْهِۙ(۳۴) وَ اُمِّهٖ وَ اَبِیْهِۙ(۳۵) وَ صَاحِبَتِهٖ وَ بَنِیْهِؕ(۳۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: On that day man will flee from his (own) brother. And from his mother and father. And from his wife and sons.

In such difficult times, when there will be no one to look after you, when even all other Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام will say ‘ اِذْھَبُوْااِلٰی غَیْرِیْ ’ i.e. go to someone else, in such severe time, there will be only one personality who will change the hopelessness of us sinners into a hope. He will be the hope of our hopes. He will have the calls of ‘ اَنَالَھَا ’, i.e. I am the one for intercession, on his lips. Yes! That sacred personality will be the blessed personality of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who will prostrate in the court of Allah Almighty and intercede for his sinful Ummatis.

Sayyiduna Ruwaifa’ Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘My intercession has become Wajib for the one who recited this Salat: ‘ اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَکَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃ ’.

(Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 5, pp. 26, Hadees 4480)

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard that how easy and a great action reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is? But how huge its reward is that by the virtue of it, intercession of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم becomes Wajib upon a person. Therefore, in order to be deserving of the intercession of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, recite Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, persuasion for reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is given on different occasions in the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, persuasion for reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also included in Madani In’amaat. Therefore, it is stated in Madani In’aam no. 5: ‘Today, did you recite some Awraad from your Shajarah and invoked Salat and Salam at least 313 times?’ Similarly, Madani In’aam no. 49 contains the persuasion of reciting Salat upon the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while feeling remorse over uttering something useless. Therefore, in order to develop a habit of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, act upon the Madani In’amaat. Keep reading the excellences of reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Also keep in view the admonitions for not reciting it.

Always keep a Tasbih with you and recite a specific number of Salat daily. Other than this, develop a habit of performing Zikr and reciting Salat upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even in your leisure time instead of indulging in useless conversation. In order to adopt all these noble traits, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and render your services in its departments and gain blessings of this world and the Hereafter.

Majlis-e-Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, “Majlis-e-Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah” is also one of the departments out of approximately 107 departments of Dawat-e-Islami, (the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool) that are spread all across the globe. This Majlis is striving to condole and sympathise the grieved Ummah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم day and night.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, out of the passion of condoling the grieved Ummah, approximately more than 400,000 Ta’wizaat and Awraad-e-Attariyyah are distributed among approximately 125,000 ill and grieved people under this Majlis every month absolutely free of cost for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Blessings of Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah are not limited to any specific area or city, in fact, hundreds of stalls are set up in hundreds of cities of every province of Pakistan. Hundreds of stalls of Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah are also set up in countries other than Pakistan too. For example, South Africa, America, England, Bangladesh and India, etc. May Allah Almighty bless ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah’ with further progressions and blessings.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Sunnahs and manners of drinking water

٭ Do not drink water in one breath like a camel. But rather, drink it in two or three breaths. Recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه) when you begin to drink it and when you have finished, recite (اَلۡحَمۡدُلِلّٰهِ) . (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

٭ The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم forbade breathing or blowing into the pot. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 475, Hadees 3728)

٭ Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: Breathing in container is an act done by animals, moreover, keep your mouth away from container when you breathe as the breath is sometimes poisonous (i.e. keep glass away from mouth when exhaling breath). Do not blow on hot tea or milk in order to cool it down, but wait for a while, when it gets a little cold, then drink it. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 77)

Nevertheless, there is no harm in blowing onto water after reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of seeking cure. Recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه) before drinking water.

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of drinking water will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 25 April 2019

۔1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

۔2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

۔3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

۔4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of drinking water

۔1 Drink in small sips by sucking the water, big sips cause liver disease.

۔2 Drink water in three breaths.

۔3 Drink water with the right hand and in sitting position.

۔4 Drinking water left in container after ablution is a cure for 70 diseases, as it resembles Zamzam water. Except for these two (i.e. leftover water of Wudu and Zamzam water), drinking any kind of water while standing is Makruh. (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 4, pp. 575; vol. 21, pp. 669) Drink leftover water of Wudu and Zamzam water whilst standing and facing Qiblah.

۔5 Having drunk water, say (اَلۡحَمۡدُلِلّٰهِ) .

۔6 Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: Recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه) before starting to drink [water], (اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ) at the end of first breath, (اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ) after the second breath and recite (اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ) after the third breath. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 8)

۔7 After some moments of drinking water, if you see the empty glass, you will notice a few drops of water gathered in the bottom of glass, drink them as well.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Du’a for starting any new task

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the Du’a for “ starting any new task ” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ مَجْرٖؔىهَا وَ مُرْسٰىهَاؕ-اِنَّ رَبِّیْ لَغَفُوْرٌ رَّحِیْمٌ(۴۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah’s name, with it is its sailing and it’s anchoring’ indeed my Lord is surely Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.’

(Part 12, Surah Hood, Ayah 41) (Khazinah-e-Rahmat, pp. 64)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

۔1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

۔2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

۔3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

۔4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

۔5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

۔6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

۔7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

۔8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

۔9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

۔1 Made good intentions?

۔2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

۔3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

۔4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

۔5 Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

۔6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

۔7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

۔8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

۔9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

۔10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

۔11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

۔12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

۔13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

۔14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

۔15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

۔16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

۔17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

۔18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

۔19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

۔20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

۔21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

۔22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

۔23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

۔24 Obeyed your Nigran?

۔25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

۔26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

۔27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

۔28 Controlled your anger?

۔29 Refrained from useless questions?

۔30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

۔31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

۔32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

۔33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

۔34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

۔35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

۔36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

۔37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

۔38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

۔39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

۔40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

۔41 Paid back the loan on time?

۔42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

۔43 Kept unified relations?

۔44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

۔45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

۔46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

۔47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

۔48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

۔49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

۔50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

۔1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

۔2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

۔3 Inquired after an ill person?

۔4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

۔5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

۔6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

۔7 Sent a letter?

۔8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

