Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

With the blessings of celebrating Milad

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ غَدًا رَاضِیًا فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ Whoever likes this [thing] that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2226)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1.Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 .Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 .Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 .I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 .If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 .When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 .After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 .During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 .Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 .Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed month of Safar-ul-Muzaffar is coming to an end. After this, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the blessed luminous month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal will be among us. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this blessed month, millions of devotees of Rasool all across the world celebrate with great pomp and circumstance the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and express their devotion and reverence. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this relation, Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat are conducted by the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e- Islami, in various cities and countries. Beautiful parables regarding the blessed Seerah and different blessed attributes of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are mentioned in these Ijtima’aat. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ too, we will be privileged to listen to the faith enlightening Ayahs of the Holy Quran, Tafseer [commentary of the Holy Quran], blessed Ahadees, parables, narrations and sayings of the blessed Islamic scholars in relation to the reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, we will also try to derive Madani pearls gathered from it and implement in our lives too, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Reverence to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became the cause of forgiveness

Sayyiduna Wahb Bin Munabbih رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated that there was a person in Bani Israel who spent 200 years of his life disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and finally died in the same very state of disobedience. The Bani Israel held his dead body by his leg, dragged it and threw it on the pile of garbage. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to His Rasool Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام to pick him up from there and perform his funeral Salah after his funeral rites. When Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام asked people about him, they testified that he was a man of ill character. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly requested in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bani Israel are testifying that he was a man of a bad character who had spent 200 years of his life disobeying You.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام that “he was indeed a man of a bad character but it was his habit that whenever he would open the blessed Torah to recite and see the blessed name of Muhammad

(صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), he would kiss it and touch it on his eyes and would recite Salat upon him. That’s why, I valued this action of his, forgave his sins and performed his Nikah with 70 Hoors (beautiful maidens of Paradise). (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 4, pp. 45, Hadees 4695)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! This faith-refreshing parable has freshened up the hearts and minds of the believers. Just ponder! That person who remained indulged in sins for a long time without performing any good deeds, but only due to respecting the blessed name of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he received such a gift that Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, arranged his funeral rites. All his past sins were forgiven and he became deserving of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Just ponder! When an Ummati of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام deserved to be forgiven by the virtue of respecting the blessed name of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then how much infinite mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would shower upon that person of the Ummat-e-Muhammadiyyah who not only has respect for the blessed name but also has great respect for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and everything that is related to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, it has also been learnt from this narration that kissing the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the intention of reverence is not only permissible but also a source of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Remember! After embracing faith, reverence for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم holds immense importance. Many blessed Ayahs prove the importance and need of the reverence to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, it is stated in the Ayah 8 and 9 of Surah Al-Fath, part 26:

اِنَّاۤ اَرْسَلْنٰكَ شَاهِدًا وَّ مُبَشِّرًا وَّ نَذِیْرًاۙ(۸) لِّتُؤْمِنُوْا بِاللّٰهِ وَ رَسُوْلِهٖ وَ تُعَزِّرُوْهُ وَ تُوَقِّرُوْهُؕ-وَ تُسَبِّحُوْهُ بُكْرَةً وَّ اَصِیْلًا(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have indeed sent you (O Beloved) as present and seeing (Haazir and Naazir) and giving glad tidings and warning. In order that, O people, you may believe in Allah and His Messenger, and honour and revere the Messenger (Prophet Muhammad), and you should glorify Allah, in the morning and evening. (Part 26, Surah Al-Fath, Ayah 8, 9)

Summary of what A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has said regarding this blessed Ayah is as follows: ‘O Muslims! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ mentioned three purposes of sending the religion of Islam and revealing the Holy Quran: Firstly, to embrace faith upon Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; secondly, to have reverence for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; thirdly, to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Have a look at the beautiful order of all these three things. First of all, faith has been mentioned and His own worship has been mentioned last, whilst reverence for His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been stated in the middle as reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will not benefit without faith.’

Dear Islamic sisters! From the abovementioned blessed Ayahs and the blessed sayings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it has become clear that reverence to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the very essence of the faith. If a person without honouring the greatness of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم makes efforts to perform other good deeds, none of her deeds will be acceptable. A small defect in the reverence of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can become the cause of destroying all her good deeds. As it has been stated in the 2 nd Ayah of Surah Al-Hujurat, part 26:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا لَا تَرْفَعُوْۤا اَصْوَاتَكُمْ فَوْقَ صَوْتِ النَّبِیِّ وَ لَا تَجْهَرُوْا لَهٗ بِالْقَوْلِ كَجَهْرِ بَعْضِكُمْ لِبَعْضٍ اَنْ تَحْبَطَ اَعْمَالُكُمْ وَ اَنْتُمْ لَا تَشْعُرُوْنَ(۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Do not raise your voices higher than the voice of this Conveyor of the unseen (Prophet Muhammad), and nor speak aloud in his august court just like you speak aloud to one another amongst yourselves. In case your deeds go to waste whilst you are unaware.

(Part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, Ayah 2)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, Hakim-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: We come to know that even a very minor element of disrespect to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an act of unbelief, as it is the act of unbelief that destroys good deeds. Let alone other acts of disrespect, good deeds are destroyed even if someone speaks in a loud voice in his blessed court. The meaning of the Ayah is that one should neither speak loudly before him صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, nor call him out with ordinary titles which are used to call each other. One should not say uncle, father, brother and Bashar [ordinary human being], rather say ‘ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰه ’ [Rasoolullah], شَفِيۡعُ الۡمُذۡنِبِيۡن [Shafi’-ul-Muznibeen]. (Noor-ul-Irfan, pp. 823)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that the sacred book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is mentioning the greatness and dignity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and teaching us the manners of visiting his blessed court that just speaking loudly in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a grave sin due to which all the good deeds get destroyed.

Hakim-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The courtly manners of worldly kings are manmade, but the manners of the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have been made and taught by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, these manners are not only for humans, but are for all the jinns, humans and angels. Angels also used to visit the blessed court after seeking permission. These manners are forever. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 823)

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! All the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are respectable. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded (us) to observe reverence for the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام at various places in the Holy Quran and has also made a promise of favours and blessings to those who obey these commands . Therefore, it is stated in the 12 th Ayah of Surah Al-Mai`dah, part 6:

وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And believe in My Messengers and respect them, and lend Allah a good loan, so I will surely remove your sins, and I will surely admit you to Gardens; beneath which rivers flow.

(Part 6, Surah Al-Mai`dah, Ayah 12)

After having faith in the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in particular, those who have reverence for him are blessed with the glad tidings of success. Therefore, it is stated in the 157 th Ayah of Surah Al-A’raf, part 9:

فَالَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا بِهٖ وَ عَزَّرُوْهُ وَ نَصَرُوْهُ وَ اتَّبَعُوا النُّوْرَ الَّذِیْۤ اُنْزِلَ مَعَهٗۤۙ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُوْنَ۠(۱۵۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So those who believe in him, and honour him, and help him, and follow the light (i.e. Quran) which was sent down with him, it is they who are successful. (Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 157)

Remember! These rewards will be attained only when we consider the greatness and respect of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and the respect of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in particular, as a part of our faith and refrain from even the slightest form of their disrespect. While teaching us how to respect the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden us to raise our voices in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as forbidden us to call the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out in an ordinary way. Therefore, it is stated in the 63 rd Ayah of Surah Al-Noor, part 18:

لَا تَجْعَلُوْا دُعَآءَ الرَّسُوْلِ بَیْنَكُمْ كَدُعَآءِ بَعْضِكُمْ بَعْضًاؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: (O people!) Do not make the calling of the Messenger amongst yourselves just like one calls the other amongst yourselves. (Part 18, Surah An-Noor, Ayah 63)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Commentators also mention one meaning [of this Ayah] that whenever someone respectfully calls him out, then he should do so with utmost humbleness, respect and reverence using the reverend titles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم like ‘Ya Nabiyyallah! Ya Rasoolallah! Ya Habeeballah!’ in a soft voice and a humble manner.

(Tafseer Khaza`in-ul- ‘Irfan, part 18, Surah An-Noor, Taht-al-Ayah 63)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما has said: First the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was called as ‘Ya Muhammad’, ‘Ya Abal Qaasim’ (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbade from saying these [words] to show the reverence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would say ‘Ya Nabiyyallah’, ‘Ya Rasoolallah’.

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 19)

Dear Islamic sisters! Just ponder! How important the matter of reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not even like the fact that anyone addresses His Beloved Habeeb (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) by taking his name. The Islamic scholars have explained: To call out Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by taking his name is Haraam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 157)

Remember! The reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not only limited to his blessed apparent life, but it is essential for every Muslim to accept his eminence and greatness until the world exists.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Respect and reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after his apparent life and apparent demise i.e. in every state, is compulsory and fundamental for the Ummah; because the more reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم increases in the hearts, the more Noor (light) of faith will keep increasing.

(Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 216)

Dear Islamic sisters! We came to know that love for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and showing great respect towards him in every matter are the means of increase in faith as well as the root of faith. Try to understand it from the following example that if the roots of a tree are cut, the tree dries out and its fruits and flowers decay and fall off. In the same way, reverence for the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is like the root of the plant of faith. Without this, the plant of faith cannot flourish and its fruits and flowers in the shape of good deeds get wasted. Therefore, in order to preserve your good deeds and grow the tree of faith further, consider the respect of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as compulsory. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم displayed such examples of the reverence to the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which cannot be found in the history. Let’s listen to a few parables of devotion to the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of those ardent devotees:

1.It has been narrated that the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would knock on the door of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with their nails due to the great respect and reverence. (Sharh Shifa by Mulla ‘Ali Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 71)

2.Likewise, in the year of the Treaty of Hudaybiyah, the Quraysh sent Sayyiduna ‘Urwah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who had not embraced Islam at that time) to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He saw that when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform Wudu, the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would move forward so quickly to take the water of Wudu that it seemed as if they would start fighting with each other. When the Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed sacred saliva would come out or when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would clean his blessed nose, the blessed

companions would take it into their hands and rub it on their faces and bodies (in order to gain blessings from it). Whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would command them to do, they would immediately obey. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would converse, they would remain silent and due to the element of respect of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they would not look at the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by raising their eyes. When Sayyiduna ‘Urwah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went back to the people of Makkah, he said to them: O group of Quraysh! I have been to the courts of Qaisar [Caesar], Cyrus [Kisra] and Negus [Najjashi]; but by Lord Almighty! I have never seen any king with such dignity and majesty among his nation as I have seen for (Sayyiduna) Muhammad (Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) among his Companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم . (Shifa, vol. 2, pp. 38)

3.Once, the uncle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, was asked: ‘ اَنۡتَ اَكۡبَرُ اَمۡ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰه ’ Are you older or the Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) ? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘ هُوَ اَكۡبَرُ مِنِّيۡ وَاَنَا كُنۡتُ قَبۡلَه ٗ ’ i.e. He (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is indeed greater, I was just born before him .

(Kanz-ul-Ummal, vol. 13, pp. 224, Hadees 37344)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see how great love and respect the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that despite being older in age, they would still refer greatness towards Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, we too should not only become the embodiment of devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also relate the beautiful parables of the blessed Companions’ devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to our children so that the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also embeds firmly in their hearts right from their childhood.

For this purpose, reading the 274-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, titled Sahabah Kiraam ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool will be highly beneficial. By acting upon the Madani In’amaat, watching Madani Muzakarahs and attending weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the treasure of the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be achieved.

Madani visit

One of the eight Madani activities of everyday is Madani Dorah (Madani visit), through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their homes. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani visit’ after fixing a day in a week and changing the areas for paying ‘Madani visit’. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least an elderly woman) should make ‘Madani visit’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Conveying invitation towards righteousness is such an important obligation that all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, in fact master of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, was also sent in this world for this very purpose. These sacred personalities went through so many troubles and difficulties but duly fulfilled the great task of conveying the invitation towards righteousness and forbidding evil.

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister living in Taxila (district Rawalpindi, Punjab) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being angry and irritable. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The communication of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attain the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the sounds/voices of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really

impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! The way reverence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is important, in the same way, reverence of the blessed Companions, wives, family members, offspring and sacred relics which are associated with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, including the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is also very important. Usually, the Zikr of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done in all Islamic gatherings; but especially in the Ijtima of Milad, the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done, the glory and dignity of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is mentioned, and the beautiful parables of the blessed life of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are relayed. Therefore, celebrating Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is also a form of revering beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 9, pp. 56)

Sayyiduna Imam Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Celebrating Milad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is showing reverence for the status of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Haawi lil-Fatawa, vol. 1, pp. 222)

Similarly, Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Yusuf Saalihi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Celebrating Milad brings about the love and reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 1, pp. 365)

We are fortunate that soon اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be privileged with the blessed month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal. As soon as this blessed month arrives, devotees of

the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم rejoice from the bottom of their heart and busy themselves in preparing for the Jashn (celebrations of) Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi. And why should it not be done? As upon the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the entire universe became joyous; the ‘Arsh rejoiced; the Kursi also became happy and the jinns were stopped from going to the sky. They started saying to one another: ‘Undoubtedly we had to take great pains in our way.’ The angels started reciting Tasbeeh with extreme pleasure; the winds began blowing and swaying with ecstasy and exposed the clouds; branches in the gardens started bowing down and the calls of ‘ اَهۡلًا وَّ سَهۡلًا مَرۡحَبَا ’ were heard from every corner of the universe. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 243) In short, arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the complete source of mercy and blessings.

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Celebrating Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is a sacred act and those who celebrate it are blessed with countless Islamic and worldly blessings from Allah Almighty. It is stated in Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan: ‘The blessings of a blessed gathering of Milad remains in the home for the whole year.’ (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 9, pp. 57) Similarly, Sayyiduna Imam Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘One of the proven blessing of conducting a gathering of Milad in the days of the blessed month is that peace and tranquillity prevails throughout that year. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on the one who celebrates the nights of the Milad month like Eid.’ (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 148)

One who celebrates Milad has also been given the glad tidings of Paradise in addition to worldly blessings. The famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Shah ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Reward of those who celebrate the blessed night of the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make them enter Jannat-un-Na’eem by His Grace and Mercy. Muslims have always been celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they invite guests out of happiness, cook food, and give Sadaqah (charity) in abundance. They express their joy openly and spend whole-heartedly, hold Zikr of the blessed birth of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, decorate their houses and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers His Mercy on them due to the blessing of all these righteous deeds.’ (Masabata min-As-Sunnah, pp. 74)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that how pleased Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets with those who celebrate the Milad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and what great rewards and honours He Almighty blesses them with. Therefore, decorate your homes, Masajid, shops, vehicles and also your localities/ Mahallah with green flags to rejoice over the blessed birth of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Display loads of lights or light up at least 12 bulbs. Attend the Ijtima’-e-Zikr-o-Na’at on the 12 th night of Rabi’ ul Awwal with the intention of gaining reward, and at the time of dawn, welcome the dawn of blessings with tearful eyes, raising green flags whilst reciting Salat and Salam. If possible, observe Sawm on the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal as well, as our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to celebrate his Yaum-e-Wiladat by observing Sawm every Monday.

Sayyiduna Abu Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked about the Sawm of Monday. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘I was born on this very day and revelation descended upon me on this very day.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 591, Hadees 1162)

Remember! The commandment of rejoicing over the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been proven from the Holy Quran. Therefore, it has been stated in the Holy Quran, part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah No. 58:

قُلْ بِفَضْلِ اللّٰهِ وَ بِرَحْمَتِهٖ فَبِذٰلِكَ فَلْیَفْرَحُوْاؕ-هُوَ خَیْرٌ مِّمَّا یَجْمَعُوْنَ(۵۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say you (O Beloved), ‘Only Allah’s Bounty and His Mercy; and only upon it they should rejoice.’ That is better than all their (accumulated) wealth. (Part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah 58)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, Hakim-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: O Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! After giving this glad tidings to people, also command them to rejoice openly upon receiving the Grace and Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Generally, rejoice all the time, but special celebration should be made on those dates when these blessings were granted i.e. Ramadan, in particular, Shab-e-Qadr and Rabi’-ul-Awwal, in particular, the 12 Rabi-ul-Awwal. As the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, i.e. the Holy Quran, descended in Ramadan

and ‘ رَحْمَۃٌ لِّلْعَالَمِیْن ’ (the mercy for the entire universe), i.e. the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born in Rabi’-ul-Awwal. To celebrate this grace and mercy is better than worldly accumulated possessions, money, home, property, livestock, agriculture and even children etc.; because the benefit of this joy is not personal but national, not temporary but forever, not only limited to this world but also in the Hereafter, not only physical but also spiritual. It has no destruction but Sawab (reward). (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 11, pp. 369)

Belief of the Ahl-us-Sunnah

Dear Islamic sisters! According to the belief of Ahl-us-Sunnah, the blessed gathering of Milad is one of the most excellent acts of Mustahabbat [commendable actions] and one of the most superior virtuous acts.

(Al-Haq-ul-Mubeen, pp. 100)

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah, Maulana, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘The blessed Milad, that is to say, talking about of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is permissible. In the same relation, his صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم excellence, miracles, Seerah, attributes, blessed matters of his life, childhood and apparent arrival in this world are also mentioned in the same gatherings. These facts are also mentioned in Ahadees as well as the Holy Quran. If Muslims mention these narrations in their congregations or particularly hold a congregation to deliver such narrations, then there is no reason to declare these congregations impermissible. Inviting people to attend such congregations is inviting them towards goodness. The way announcements are made for speeches and congregations, advertisements and leaflets are published and distributed, articles are published in the newspapers, and the speeches and congregations are not declared to be impermissible due to these means of advertisements, in the same way, this Majlis of blessed Zikr [Milad] cannot be declared impermissible and an innovation if invitations are sent out for it too.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vo. 3, pp. 644)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi and Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic sisters! Which other day would be more a ‘Day of Gift’ for Muslims than the day of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Because all the enlivening and blessings of the universe are bestowed upon us by the virtue of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; and this day is even greater than the day of Eids as both the Eids have also been bestowed upon us by its sake. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is celebrated in Pakistan as well as in many countries in a dignified manner every year at countless locations. On the night of 12 Rabi’-ul-Awwal, a great Ijtima’-e-Milad is held and on the day of Eid, i.e. 12 th Rabi-ul-Awwal, numerous Milad procession rallies are held resounding with chants of ‘ Marhaba Ya Mustafa ’, in which millions of devotees of Rasool participate.

Majlis-e-Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness, spreading [the fragrance of] Sunnah and developing the devotion to pious saints in the hearts of people all over the world. Approximately 104 departments have been established in order to organize Madani activities all over the world. One of them is ‘Majlis-e-Madani In’amaat’. ‘Majlis-e-Madani In’amaat’ has been established in order to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters, male and female students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madaris Al-Madinah practising and to persuade them to act upon Madani In’amaat as per the wish of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: Would that besides performing other obligatory acts and Sunnahs all the Islamic brothers and sisters could also make these Madani In’amaat a part of their life and all responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate them (booklets of Madani In’amaat) in their Halqahs (areas)! Would that every Muslim could get the greatest gift of becoming the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Janna-tul Firdaus by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by acting upon these Madani In’amaat sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter! Let’s participate in virtuous activities actively. Not only should we

act upon Madani In’amaat ourselves, but we should also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon them and earn huge reward.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has blessed the devotees of Milad with some important Madani pearls in his letter. Let us also go through some of the Madani pearls:

Madani pearls of the letter of Attar

٭ For Islamic sisters not to observe Shar’i veiling is a Haraam act. By virtue of auspicious occasion of Rabi’-un-Noor, Islamic sisters are requested to make the intention of observing Shar’i Pardah, preferably wearing a Madani Burqa’. (Woman’s non-observance of Shar’i veiling is Haraam. It is Wajib to repent of these sins instantly and give them up).

Jhuk gaya Ka’bah sabhi but munh kay bal aundhay giray

Dab-dabah aamad ka tha, اَهۡلًا وَّ سَهۡلًا مَرۡحَبَا

The Ka’bah tilted, all the idols fell down on thy arrival, Marhaba! Marhaba!

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 257)

٭ A great Madani technique to acquire steadfastness in practising Sunnah and other good deeds is that all devotees (Islamic brothers & Islamic sisters) of the Holy Rasool should make intention to execute Fikr-e-Madinah daily, filling in the booklets of Madani In’amaat and should submit the booklet monthly.

Badliyan rahmat ki cha`een boondiyan rahmat ki aa`een

Ab muradayn dil ki pa`een aamad-e-Shah-e-Arab hay

The clouds and drizzle of blessing are at onset

Wishes will be fulfilled now, Marhaba Marhaba

(Qabalah-e-Bakhshish, pp. 184)

٭ Islamic sisters should deliver Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat for at least thirty days in their homes (only to the ladies and Maharim) and then make the intention to continue it after Rabi’-un-Noor as well.

٭ Display 12 flags or at least one flag in your home since moon sighting for the whole month. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the whole city will blossom with smiling waving green flags.

٭ If the flag bears lettering or image of Na’layn (image of the blessed shoe-sole of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), make sure that the flag neither tears nor falls on the ground. Further, as soon as the month of Rabi’-un-Noor ends, remove the flags immediately. If there is risk of disrespect, use simple green flags i.e. without that sacred image/lettering.

Nabi ka jhanda lay ker niklo dunya mayn chha jao

Nabi ka jhanda aman ka jhanda ghar ghar mayn lahrao

Lead the whole world bearing the Nabi’s flag

It’s peace flag; so at every home wave this great flag

٭ Illuminate your home with 12 lighting strings or at least 12 bulbs.

Aik mashriq, aik maghrib, aik baam-e-Ka’bah per

Nasb parcham ho gaya, اَهۡلًا وَّ سَهۡلًا مَرۡحَبَا

Flags were hoisted one in the East, one in the West and one on the roof of the Ka’bah to welcome the advent of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 453)

٭ Every Islamic sister should get as many booklets or different pamphlets distribute published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah as possible or at least amounting to 12 PKR among the participants of Milad procession.

Similarly, make your contribution to call towards righteousness by free distribution of booklets throughout the year. Also make efforts for such distribution on occasions of weddings, funerals etc. and for conveying Sawab to the deceased. Also persuade other Muslims to do the same.

Baant ker Madani rasaail Deen ko phaylaaiye

Ker kay razi Haq ko haqdar-e-jina ban jaaiye

Spread Sunnah by distributing Madani booklets

Be deserving of Heaven by pleasing Allah

٭ Responsible Islamic sisters should hold Ijtima’ at homes. If possible, everyone should attend the Ijtima’ whilst bearing green flags in Rabi’-un-Noor.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding condolence

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls regarding condolence from the booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ titled “ Method of Becoming Pious ”: Firstly, listen to the two sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The one who condoles a grief-stricken person will attain the same reward as the grief-stricken person. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 338, Hadees 1075)

٭ The believer who condoles any of his grief-stricken brother, Allah Almighty will make him wear the attire of Karamah on the Day of Judgement. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 268, Hadees 1601)

٭ Condolence means: Giving the mind-set of observing patience to a grief-stricken person. Condoling is Masnoon [an act of Sunnah]. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 852)

٭ Condoling is also permissible even before the burial; but it is better to do so after the burial. This is when the household of the deceased do not start wailing and mourning. Otherwise, do so before the burial for comforting them. (Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 141)

٭ The time of doing Ta’ziyat is till three days from the death and it is Makruh afterwards as the grieve will revive again [for the family members]. However, if the person doing Ta’ziyat and the family members are not present at the same place, or they are present but this person is unaware [of the situation], then there is no harm in doing Ta’ziyat afterwards. (Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 141)

٭ Say the following while doing Ta’ziyat: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless you with patience and grant you great reward for this calamity, and may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive the deceased.

٭ Remember that it is impermissible and a sin to do Saug [mourning] of the deceased or not wear good clothes etc. on Eid due to Saug after the days of Saug [mourning] have passed. However, it is not a sin if someone does not wear good clothes due to any other [permissible] reason.

٭ It is unanimously agreed that Noha, i.e. to cry loudly after stating the attributes of the deceased exaggeratedly which is called ‘Bayn’, is Haraam. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 854)

٭ The doctors say that if (the person who is deeply grieved at the death of his loved one) does not cry at all at the death, he gets affected by a serious illness. Shedding tears takes away the heat of the heart. Therefore, never stop one from crying like this (without doing Noha). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 501)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

