1 اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

How to Attain the Pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When a true believer recites Salat one time upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses him with ten virtues, forgives ten of his sins and raises his status by ten times and this is equal to setting 10 slaves free. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 322, Hadees 2574)

جو درود و سلام پڑھتے ہیں ان پہ رحمت خدا کی ہوتی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The remarkable publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah ‘Hikayatayn and Nasihatayn’ contains 56 speeches, and mentions a valuable parable on page 256 which will guide the true and chosen believers of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Ahmad Mufeed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, I have heard Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying: I was sleeping in the presence of Sayyiduna Sirri Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He woke me up and said: O Junayd! I saw myself as if I am standing in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and it was said to me: O Sirri (Saqati)! When I created the creation, all of them claimed to be My devoted lovers. After I created the world, then 90% of them, chose the world and its pleasures and they turned away from Me. Then I created Jannah and displayed it to the remaining ones. 90% of them diverted their attention towards attaining Jannah. Then I created slightest of hardship and misfortune . From the remaining, 90% forgot Me because of the calamities. I asked the people who remained in the end: ‘O My Devotees! You have neither longed after the pleasures of worldliness nor have you demanded Jannah and nor have you detracted by the hardships and calamities. What then do you want? They humbly responded: O Creator of the World! Our aim and mission is to seek Your love and we will not give up despite You placing calamities upon us. I then said: ‘I will put such difficulties upon you that even mountains would not be able to bear them.’ Upon that, they humbly said: O our Beloved Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Why not! You have all Powers and Absolute Authority! You can test any of us by putting us into troubles and misfortunes . Then it was (said): ‘O Sirri! These are the true and chosen believers who are my beloved bondsmen’

(Hikayatayn aur Nasihatayn, pp. 256)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable it has become obvious that the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ remain patient and express their gratitude in all circumstances, they always remain obedient to His will, and never utter a single word of complaint. Such people are the beloved ones of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We too should develop the habit of having patience upon difficulties to seek the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to the kind of love that the believers have for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: It is stated in Ayah 165 of Surah Baqarah:

وَ الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡۤا ا َ شَدُّ حُبًّا لِ ّ لہِ ؕ

And the believers do not love anybody with love equal to the love of Allah;

[Translation of Kanz-ul-Iman ](Part 1, Surah Baqarah, verse 165)

Regarding the abovementioned blessed verse, in the commentary of ‘ Siraat- ul-Jinnan ’, vol. 1, page 264, Madani pearls have been mentioned in a beautiful manner. Before we listen to them, let me first tell you a few qualities of the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinnan, to understand its greatness so that we could read it individually or in a Fajr Madani Halqah to attain the blessings of this world and the Hereafter.

1. In the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinnan, two translations of every verse have been included, one from Kanz-ul-Iman of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and the second is in simple Urdu known as Kanz-ul-Irfan which is mostly derived from Kanz-ul-Iman .

2. In the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinnan, reliable Islamic scholars have derived Kalaam from old and new Quranic commentaries and books written on other Islamic branches of knowledge, in particular, a large number of books which were written by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, have been presented in a simple manner.

3. The commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinnan has been greatly influenced by the commentaries called Khaza’in-ul-Irfan and Noor- ul - Irfan . Khaza’in-ul-Irfan is written by a Khalifah of A’la Hadrat, Sadr- ul - Afaadil, Sayyid, Hafiz Mufti Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی and Noor- ul - Irfan is written by his caliph, Hakeem- ul - Ummah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

4. Siraat-ul-Jinnan is not too long nor too short, is it medium but comprehensive.

1. As far as possible an easy method has been adopted in Siraat-ul-Jinnan so that ordinary Islamic brothers can also gain benefit from it.

2. For the rectification of deeds, the discussion and curses of social evils have been mentioned in Siraat-ul-Jinnan.

3. Siraat-ul-Jinnan contains motivation towards attaining the gifts of Jannah and caution against the torments of Hell.

4. In Siraat-ul-Jinnan, factors related to internal diseases have been discussed in great detail.

5. Siraat-ul-Jinnan also contains content to help reform ourselves and information on how to behave well with parents, relatives, orphans, neighbours etc.

6. In Siraat-ul-Jinnan, the beliefs and practices of the Ahl-e-sunnat have been explained with proofs.

7. In Siraat-ul-Jinnan, according to the occasion, the life history and the parables of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ and the blessed saints have been mentioned.

8. Siraat-ul-Jinnan contains colourful, new and fragrant Madani pearls obtained from the verses.

It has been stated in the exegesis of Siraat-ul-Jinnan about the verse replete with love we have just heard:

The beloved bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ more than all the creatures. To live and die in the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes the aim of their lives. All the following acts such as preferring the will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to every pleasure, instead of sleeping in soft beds performing Sajdah to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, weeping in remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being worried for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, performing Qiyaam in the long winter nights and fasting in the

long summer days, having love and enmity for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, giving someone something and stopping giving something for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being thankful for His blessings, being patient upon distress, trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every circumstance, leaving every affair of yours to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being ready all the time to act upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having no love for others, having love for the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and hatred for the enemies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having devotion to the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, showing true devotion to the most Beloved Prophet of Allah heartily, by the recitation of the book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, getting close to the closest believers of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, loving them, having their company for developing further the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, respecting them considering it the reverence for Allah and hundreds of acts other than them are such which are the evidence and requisite for the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinnan, pp. 264)

Ameer Ahl-e-sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ makes his request to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

مُشکلوں میں دے صبر کی توفیق اپنے غم میں فقط گُھلا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The published book of Maktaba-tul-Madinah named ‘Allah waalon ki Baatayn’ has a blessed Hadees, having heard which the sinners will be relieved and the righteous people will be frightened. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After listening to this blessed Hadees it will be learnt as to how do those who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ spend their nights?

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم that ‘O Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم! Give good news to

sinners and tell Siddiqeen frightening thing? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: O Dawood! Give this good news to sinners that no sin is bigger than My forgiveness and tell Siddiqeen the frightening thing that they should not be pleased with their good deeds because whoever I account for My blessings, will be ruined. O Dawood! If you want to love Me, so dispel the love of the world from the heart because the love for Me and the world cannot gather in one heart; O Dawood! Whoever loves Me, offers Tahajjud at night for Me while people are sleeping; he remembers Me in loneliness, when heedless people remain heedless of My remembrance, he thanks Me for My blessing whereas those who forget remain heedless of Me.’

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 8, pp. 211, Raqm 11906)

مِرے دِل سے دنیا کی چاہت مِٹا کر

کر اُلفت میں اپنی فنا یا اِلٰہی

عبادت میں گزرے مری زندگانی

کرم ہو کرم یا خدا یا الٰہی!

تُو اپنی وِلایت کی خیرات دیدے

مِرے غوث کا واسطہ یا اِلٰہی!

(وسائلِ بخشش ،ص۱۰۵)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The real love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we can get if we know the ways of getting it. The most important way to gain the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is this that one should have true love for His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and obey the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the obedience to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a condition for getting His Own love: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in verse 31 of Surah Al-e-Imran, Part 3:

قُلۡ اِنۡ کُنۡتُمۡ تُحِبُّوۡنَ اللّٰہَ فَاتَّبِعُوۡنِیۡ یُحۡبِبۡکُمُ اللّٰہُ وَ یَغۡفِرۡ لَکُمۡ ذُنُوۡبَکُمۡ ؕ وَ اللّٰہُ غَفُوۡرٌ رَّحِیۡمٌ ﴿۳۱﴾

Proclaim, ‘O mankind! If you love Allah, follow me - Allah will love you and forgive you your sins’; and Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful.

[Translation of Kanz-ul-Iman](Part 3, Surah Al-Imran, verse 31)

From this blessed verse it has been learnt that the claim of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ can be true only when we obey the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .Talking about the summary of this blessed verse Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: O the Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! You tell the people that who claim to love Me without your Wasilah or those who considering themselves the beloved of their Rab want to be independent of you or those who want to get close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by other sources rather than your obedience; make this announcement to all of them that if you want to love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so neither compete with me nor claim to be of my equal, nor go ahead of me, but rather being slave follow me.

Follow me in your sayings, actions, deeds, in short, in every walk of life and become totally absorbed in me, then things will be contrary that Rub will make you His Beloved and whatever you will, He will do, besides this He will forgive all of your sins because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very forgiving and the most merciful; you enable yourself to have His forgiveness and mercy, then get its pleasure. (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 3, pp. 359 -360)

Therefore, we should also spend our day and night in compliance with the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because it is the demand of love that the person who is loved should be obeyed.

مُطِیع اپنا مجھ کو بنا یاالٰہی

سدا سُنّتوں پر چلا یاالٰہی

تُو اَنگریزی فیشن سے ہردَم بچا کر

مجھے سنّتوں پر چلا یاالٰہی

تجھے واسِطہ سیِّدہ آمِنہ کا

بنا عاشقِ مُصطَفٰے یاالٰہی

(وسائلِ بخشش ،ص۱۰۰،۱۰۱)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One means of gaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to offer Salah regularly, to observe all the fasts of the month of Ramadan and to pay Zakat on time. Moreover, in addition to offering Faraid and Wajibat offering Nawafil is also a best deed. One who offers Nawafil also becomes the beloved and favourite bondsman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘Whoever causes pain to a saint, I declare war with him. A bondsman seeks closeness to Me most through the Faraid [obligatory acts] and he continues to gain closeness to Me by means of Nawafil [supererogatory Salah], until I start to love him. When I make the bondsman My beloved, I become his ear through which he hears, become his eye by which he sees, become his hand through which he holds and become his leg through which he walks. Then if he begs Me, I bestow upon him, and if he seeks my protection, I grant him protection.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

Regarding the foregoing Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: This line doesn’t mean that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enters the body of a saint as fire into coal or colour or smell into flower as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is free of entering [anything / anybody] and this belief is Kufr. It has some meanings: one of them is that these parts of a saint’s body do not commit sins, always perform good deeds; worship becomes easy for him, that is to say, I am making him perform all acts of worship or it means that person then does not use these body parts for the world, only uses for Me, sees Me in everything, hears My

voice in every voice, or it means that that person becomes Fanafillah (Annihilation in Allah), by which Divine powers work in his body parts and he performs those deeds which are beyond comprehension.

Sitting in Kin’aan Sayyiduna Yaqoob عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم smelt the fragrance of Yousaf’s Qamees that was on the way from Egypt; Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم heard the voice of an ant from the distance of 3 miles; Sayyiduna Asif bin Barkhiya brought the throne of Bilqees from Yaman to Egypt prior to the wink of an eye. Delivering sermon at Madinah Munawwarah Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was heard even in Nahawand. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم examined the incidents until the Judgment Day through his blessed eyes. All these are the miracles of this power. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 3, pp. 308)

Dear Islamic brothers! Would that we could become punctual in offering Nawafil as well besides regularly offering Faraid! Would that we could observe Nafli fasts such as the fast of Monday and Thursday, in addition to Fard fasts! Would that we could happily pay our complete Zakat along with Nafli Sadaqat such as to have your contribution in the construction of Masajid and Madaris, to help poor siblings and relatives financially, to feed Muslims, to spend money to spread the call towards righteousness, etc.!

Would that we could have the privilege of performing Nafl Haj and ‘Umrah along with the Fard Haj!

Would that we could offer Nafl Salah such as Tahajjud, Ishraaq, Chasht, Awwabin etc., along with Fard Salahs!

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ persuades Islamic brothers to offer Nawafil in 72 Madani In’amaat, for example, in Madani In’aam no. 16 ‘Salat tul Toba’, in Madani In’aam no. 18 ‘Nawafil after Fard Salahs’, in Madani In’aam no. 19, ‘Tahajjud Salah, Ishraaq, Chasht and Awwabin’, in Madani In’aam no. 20, ‘Tahiyyat-ul Wudu and Tahiyyat-ul-Masjid’.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to practice Madani In’amaat and include us among those who buy Madani In’amaat booklet regularly, observe Fikr-e-Madinah

daily after fixing time and submit it to the responsible Islamic brother every month and also among the fortunate who are blessed with Your love!

میں پڑھتا رہوں سُنتیں، وَقْت ہی پر ہوں سارے نَوافِل اَدا یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Similarly, another way of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to remain patient instead of making complaints on the difficulties and troubles from Him. Anyhow, one should remain patient as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes those who remain patient. It is stated in Ayah no: 146 of Surah Al-e-Imran:

وَ اللّٰہُ یُحِبُّ الصّٰبِرِیۡنَ ﴿۱۴۶﴾

and the steadfast are the beloved of Allah

[Translation of Kanz-ul-Iman](Part 3, Surah Al-e-Imran, verse 146)

Therefore if we also get into the habit of being patient, so اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessing of it we will have the true love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our heart.

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Undoubtedly there is more reward on tribulations and if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves a nation, so He makes them suffer from a tribulation so the one who is content with His will, for him His pleasure and the one who is discontent for him His displeasure.’ (Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 374, Raqm 4031)

ہے صبر تو خزانۂ فِردوس بھائیو! عاشق کے لب پہ شکوہ کبھی بھی نہ آسکے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One more means of gaining Allah’s love is to dispel the love of the worldliness from your heart. But regretfully, attracted by the world and its colourfulness the relish of love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is running out from our hearts. If we had been sincere in love with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Salahs would have never been missed, fasts of Ramadan would have never been missed and we would have not been heedless of paying Zakat. So it has become obvious that it is the curse of the love for the worldliness due to which we couldn’t seek love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, get rid of the love of this world as soon as possible as there is only loss in its love.

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who is made to drink the sweet drink of the world must have the taste of three things:

1. Such trouble that will not dispel his tiredness

2. Such greed by which he will not be rich

3. Such a desire which he will not be able to satisfy, because this world is one that demands and that is demanded, therefore whoever asks for this world, the hereafter will search him until he dies. When he dies, it will seize him. Whoever asks for the Hereafter, the world will keep on searching him until he achieves his full quota of sustenance from it.

(Tabarani Kabeer, vol. 10, pp. 162, Raqm 10328)

A Shaykh of Basra went to Sayyidatuna Rabi’a Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا and started complaining about the world, she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا said, ‘Perhaps you are more attached to the world because the person who loves someone more and more, mentions him a lot. If you had not been attached to the world, you would have never talked about it. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 76)

ا ِلٰہی! واسطہ دیتا ہوں میں میٹھے مدینے کا بچا دُنیا کی آفت سے بچا عُقْبیٰ کی آفت سے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Reciting the Holy Quran, pondering on it and after understanding its meanings and sense acting upon it are the acts of reward and a best way to seek love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Sahl Tustari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The sign of having love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to have love for the Holy Quran. The sign of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Holy Quran is to love the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sign of loving the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is adherence to his Sunnah. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 37) So we should also have true love for the Holy Quran as the truthfulness of lover becomes obvious in three things:

1. A lover considers the things of his beloved best.

2. The gathering of his beloved is the best gathering for him.

3. The will of his beloved is most precious for him.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 33)

فلموں سے ڈراموں سے دے نفرت تُو الٰہی بس شوق مجھے نعت وتلاوت کا خدا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Different departments of Dawat-e-Islami to propagate Quranic Education

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is trying to propagate Quranic education. Listen to the names of the departments which are propagating Quranic education:

1. Madrasa-tul-Madinah for boys

2. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Juzwaqti (for 1 to 2 hours)

3. Boarding Madrasa-tul-Madinah

4. Madrasa-tul-Madinah for girls

1. Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Adults Islamic brothers

2. Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Adult Islamic Sisters

3. Madrasa-tul-Madinah online for boys

4. Madrasa-tul-Madinah online for girls

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah for boys, in the country and overseas the free education of the Holy Quran Hifz and Nazirah is provided to Madani children (boys).

In Madrasa-tul Madinah Juzwaqti, the Quranic education is provided for 1 or 2 hours to those children who study at schools. In Boarding Madrasa-tul-Madinah, living in Madaris students receive the education of Quran Hifz and Nazirah. In Madrasa tul Madinah for girls, Qaariyah Islamic sisters provide Madani children (girls) with the free education of the Holy Quran Hifz and Nazirah فِيۡ سَبِيۡلُ اللّٰه . In Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Adult Islamic brothers, Islamic brothers are taught the Holy Quran with correct places of articulation; they are also made to learn Salah and Sunnahs and memorize Du’as.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult, Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters collectively at homes free of charges and teach them how to perform Salah and how to recite Glorious Quran and supplication as well as particular rulings and laws. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah online for boys, Qaari Sahiban teach Madani children (boys) and also elders the Holy Quran, Sunnahs and make them memorize Du’as via internet. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah online for girls, Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters the Holy Quran with correct places of articulation via internet and also train them as per Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, male and female students are receiving Quranic education in approximately 83 countries.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, total 2420 branches of Madrasa-tul-Madinah have been established under Dawat-e-Islami all over the world in which approximately 112116 (one lac twelve thousand one hundred and sixteen) Madani children

(boys and girls) are receiving the free education of Quran Hifz and Nazirah. In Pakistan alone, there are 2277 branches of Madrasa tul Madinah in which approximately 104228 (one lac four thousand two hundred and twenty-eight) Madani boys and girls are receiving Quranic education, whereas there are 143 branches in overseas countries, in which approximately 7888 (seven thousand eight hundred eighty-eight) Madani children (boys and girls) are getting Quranic education.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in Madrasa tul Madinah for adults Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami, more than 12 thousand male and female students, فِيۡ سَبِيۡلُ اللّٰه, are getting Quranic education.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the further propagation of Quranic education in surrounding villages along with cities, 15-day boarding course has been commenced in different cities of Pakistan. It will be commenced in further cities as well in future. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

یہی ہے آرزُو تعلیمِ قرآں عام ہو جائے تلاوت کرنا صُبح و شام میرا کام ہو جائے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You also come to Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) for teaching and learning Quranic education.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, attending Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) has great blessings. In addition to getting the education of the Holy Quran one can also get the opportunity of acquiring Shar’i rulings and some Fard ‘Uloom.

Talking about the excellence of learning rulings our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Best worship is to learn Islamic rulings and best religion is to avoid doubts. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 10, pp. 60, Hadees 28697)

One very good way to gain the company of the devotees of the Prophet is to learn proper recitation of the Quran at Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults (or to teach if you have already learned) .

In order to persuade you, here is a summary of an Islamic brother’s statement: ‘I would commit many sins, including fitting VCR cables to people’s homes, roaming around with immoral friends, watching two or three movies in a day, wasting my nights in attending concerts and live stage shows etc. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the frequent individual efforts of an Islamic brother, who was from Nayabad of Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, I enrolled in a local Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults). Accordingly, I gained the company of the devotees of the Prophet and having affiliated myself with the global non-political movement of propagating Quran and Sunnah, I became busy carrying out Madani activities.’

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping remembering and recalling all the small and great blessings and all the apparent and hidden favours and mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ every moment is also an effective source of attaining the Divine love. Undoubtedly, Allah has bestowed upon us infinite favours such as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the earth a resting place, sky as a canopy which sustaining itself without pillars, sent down blessed Prophets and Rasools عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام to spread the message of truth and righteousness. Apart from it if we ponder over our lives, we would come to know that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed countless blessings upon us, for example, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created us, blessed us with the system of inhaling and exhaling breathing for our survival, endowed us with the gifts of sight and hearing, the intellect, health, wealth and family, feet, sense of smelling, tongue and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has even subjected everything in the universe for us: the sun, the moon, the heavens and the earth, and many countless things which we have never contemplated even a slightest blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is more than the worship and prayers of many years performed by us. Hence, it is quoted that a person from the successor-nations would have

worshipped 400 years and he would not have even a single sins in his book of deeds. On the day of Judgment, there will be a Divine decree that his worship containing 400 years to be placed on the one side of scale and just a single blessing of eye on the other scale and it will be measured which will be resulted in the blessing of an eye will be far more than his 400 years worship.

(Malfuzaat, pp. 282)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unique way of reform

One person came in the court of Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and complained of his poverty. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Will you accept 100 Dirhams against your eye you are watching through? HE replied in the negative. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: Do you 100000 Dirhams in exchange for your one hand? Again he replied in the negative? Then another same question was asked about his leg, he simply replied in the negative. The narrated reported: Having after remembering and recalling him other blessings, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I am seeing millions in your possession but you are complaining of your poverty?’

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, Hadees: 3017)

قلب میں یاد تیری بسی ہو

ذِکر لب پر تِرا ہر گھڑی ہو

مستی و بے خُودی اور فَنا کی

میرے مولیٰ تُو خیرات دیدے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The fortunate Muslims show kindness and affection to one other and they gather for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, such as assembling at the weekly congregation of Dawat-e-Islami, teaching and learning in the Madras-ul-Baalighan, delivering and listening Madani Dars, becoming the traveller of Madani Qafilah, attending Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah. In

short, those who gather for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, meet one another for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and spend money on one another for the pleasure of Allah, they attain true devotion towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Hence, it is stated on page 577 volume: 03 ‘Bahar-e-Shari’at’: My love is obligatory for those who love one another, meet one another, and spend money for one another for the sake Me. (Al Mauta Imam Malik, Hadees 1828)

Dear Islamic brothers! The way bondsmen have devotional love towards their Absolute Creator and Owner, similarly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves his bondsmen; moreover, Allah’s devotion towards his bondsmen could be demonstrated from many aspects, for instance, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ being pleased with his bondsmen, making him intend to do good, praising bondsman, bestowing him with His loads of reward, forgiving him, making him engaged in his obedience and submission and saving him from His disobedience. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, Surah Al-Imran, Taht-al-Ayah, 148, 1/ 107) Baydavi, Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah 164, 1/ 441, Tafseer Khaazin, Taht-al-Ayah, 1/ 243)

When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves his bondsman blesses him the true devotion towards Deen as it is stated in the blessed Hadith that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants worldliness to that person whom He loves and that individual too whom He عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not but bestows Deen only that person who is closer and beloved to Him, therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed Deen whom He عَزَّوَجَلَّ loved.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 395 – 396, Hadees 5524)

Similarly, when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves his bondsman mentions him amongst his creature, his righteousness and virtues become public. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: When Allah loves any bondsman, He calls Sayyiduna Gabriel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and says: I love so and so; you should also love him, and then Sayyiduna Gabriel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم begins to love him. Then he

makes an announcement in the heaven saying: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves so and so and you also love him, and then the inhabitants of the Heaven also begin to love him and then there is conferred honour upon him on the earth; and when Allah is angry with any bondsman He calls Sayyiduna Gabriel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and says: I am angry with such and such and you also become angry with him, and then Sayyiduna Gabriel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم also becomes angry and then makes an announcement amongst the inhabitants of heaven: Allah is angry with so-and so, so you also become angry with him, and thus they also become angry with him. Then he has nothing on earth but hatred.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1417, Hadees 1637)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also cultivate the habit of performing more and more prayers, recitation of Glorious Quran and carrying out virtues and as a human fallibility, if we happened to commit any sin then we should seek true forgiveness in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forthwith because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes forgiveness seekers. As it is stated in Surah Baqarah:

اِنَّ اللّٰہَ یُحِبُّ التَّوَّابِیۡنَ وَ یُحِبُّ الۡمُتَطَہِّرِیۡنَ ﴿۲۲۲﴾

‘Indeed Allah loves those who repent profusely, and loves those who keep clean.’

[Translation of Kanz-ul-Iman] (Part. 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 222)

میں کر کے توبہ پلٹ کر گناہ کرتا ہوں حقیقی توبہ کا کر دے شرف عطا یا رب

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: The Most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Whoever seeks repentance is as if he has not committed any sin and when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves any bondsman, no sin harms him.’ (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar lil-Daylmi, vol. 1, pp. 308, Hadees 2251)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is learnt that seeking forgiveness is also the most liked action in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; therefore, we should also keep seeking forgiveness for our major and minor sins, especially when we go to our bed we should ponder over all the activities and matters transpired all the day long.

It is stated in Madani In’aam 16 (prescribed and designed by Shaykh-e- Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ): ‘Today, did you offer Salat-ul-Taubah at least once (preferably before going to bed) and repent of the sins committed today as well as in the past? Further, in case some sin gets committed مَعَاذَ اللّٰه, did you repent instantly and vow never to commit that sin again?’

Therefore, we should also seek forgiveness if carried out any virtue for showing off others and make intention not to do so in future and cultivate the habit of carrying out deeds with true sincerity so that we all are also counted amongst the most liked bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

مِٹا میرے رَنج و اَلَم یاالٰہی

عطا کر مجھے اپنا غم یاالٰہی

شرابِ مَحَبَّت کچھ ایسی پِلا دے

کبھی بھی نشہ ہو نہ کم یاالٰہی

عبادت میں لگتا نہیں دل ہمارا

ہیں عِصیاں میں بَدمَسْت ہم یاالٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! For more information about the Divine love, go through the chapter ‘Mahabbat-e-Ilahi’ of 692 page book ‘Mukashafa-tul Quloob’ as it is a very beneficial; furthermore, joining the company of Allah loving people and acting upon admonitory pieces of advice stated in their conversation are also the signs of Divine love. Therefore, the blessed company of righteous people and good environment is extremely important for developing our devotion towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, awakening the fear in the heart, developing the yearning for

protecting Iman, frightening own self from the torment of grave and Hell, getting rid of the habit of committing sin, abiding by the Sunnah, kindling the fire of love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and obtaining the neighbourhood of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Because the violent storm of sins in adverse circumstances of today’s society is sweeping away everyone. In such an evil and sinful era, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is no less than any great blessing, therefore, we should associate ourselves with this Madani environment. Moreover, for training of Sunnah, travel in Madani Qafilah with the devotees of Rasool. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will seek the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Sunnah of Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . May Allah privilege us to act upon the mentioned Madani pearls.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s Bayan, we have had the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about gaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ We have heard the ways by which we can attain the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. The obedience to a Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the means of attaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. Offering Nawafil abundantly is a means of attaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. Being patient upon distress is the means of seeking the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

4. To dispel the love of the world from the heart is a source of the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

5. The recitation of the Holy Quran is a source of gaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Being thankful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His blessings and pondering over His blessings are sources of attaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. Love for Allah’s bondsmen is a means of attaining the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘Whoever has enmity towards a Wali [friend] of Mine, I declare war on him. Of all things through which My bondman seeks nearness to Me, the Faraaid [obligatory acts] are most beloved to Me. And he continues to gain nearness to Me by means of Nawafil [supererogatory Salah], until I make him My beloved. If he asks Me for anything, I will surely bestow that thing upon him, and if he seeks refuge, I will surely grant him refuge.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

Commenting on the abovementioned Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated on page 308, volume 3 of Mirat-ul-Manajeeh: ‘It means that a Muslim continues offering Nawafil along with the Fard (obligatory) deeds to the extent that he becomes Allah’s beloved because he becomes exemplary of offering both Faraaid and Nawafil. It does not mean that a person should leave Faraaid and just offer Nawafil.’

It is stated on page 674, part 4, volume 1 of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: ‘There are many Nawafil. One can offer as many Nawafil as he wishes except during the time when it is not permissible to offer Salah.

The greater the hardships one suffers in this worldly life, the greater the reward he will receive in the Afterlife.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Greater rewards become due for greater hardships. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes some community, He makes them suffer (calamities), then whoever remains contented (with calamities)

shall attain Divine pleasure, while the complaining one shall be subjected to the displeasure (of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 374, vol. 4, Hadees 4031)

Countless Madaris for Hifz and Nazirah, namely Madrasa-tul-Madinah have been established. By the time of writing of this account (i.e. Rajab 1435 AH), more or less 2049 Madaris-ul-Madinah (for boys & girls) are operating in Pakistan. More than 101,430 boys and girls are being taught Hifz and Nazirah in these Madaris free of charge.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Under the supervision of the global & non-political movement of Quran & Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami, thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah (for adults) are operated daily usually after Salat-ul-‘Isha in different Masajid etc. where adults learn Quran & Du’as with their correct pronunciations of the Arabic alphabets, including the correct method of offering Salah and several other Sunan free of charge.

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. 2 Rak’aat of Salah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is better than offering 70 Rak’aat without wearing one. (Al-Firdaus Bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 265, Hadees 3233)

1. Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘ Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues.’ (Al-Firdaus Bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 406, Hadees 3805)

2. Bind the ‘Imamah whilst standing, facing the Qiblah. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas Fis-Tihbab-il-Libas lish-Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Dihlvi, pp. 38)

3. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

4. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah.

5. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

6. It is more appropriate to wrap the first fold of the ‘Imamah towards the right side of the head. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 199)

7. If Imamah is to be taken off out of some need and there is an intention of binding it again, then one sin will be erased on unwinding each fold . (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 214)

8. The length of the Shimla of the ‘Imamah should be at least the width of four fingers, and at most up to the middle of the back, i.e. approximately the length of one arm.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-Inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

Click here to read

