Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

A faith-refreshing parable . 4

Look for it during odd nights . 6

Why was Layla-tul-Qadr kept secret? . 7

The 27 th night, Layla-tul-Qadr . 8

Aspiration of forgiveness despite disobedience . 9

I am from guilty people! 11

I do not know .. 12

Fell unconscious after listening to the name of Hell 13

VCD Ijtima’ – One of the 12 Madani activities . 16

Madani parable . 16

Brief introduction to departments of Dawat-e-Islami 17

Angels descend with flags . 18

Evil consequence of interest 20

Introduction of book ‘Sood aur is ka Ilaj’ 22

Madani pearls of conversation .. 23

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Islamic Saints’ Fear of Hell

Along with Excellence of Shab-e-Qadr

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends ten mercies upon him. And whoever recites Salat upon me ten times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends 100 blessings upon him and whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and the hellfire; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 2735)

کوئی حُسنِ عمل پاس میرے نہیں پھنس نہ جاؤں قیامت میں مولا کہیں

اے شفیعِ اُمم لاج رکھنا تمہیں تم پہ ہر دم کروڑوں درود و سلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It is the sacred night, 27 th of Ramadan. We should not show negligence at all during this blessed night rather we should engage ourselves in more and more acts of worship. Majority of scholars believe that the sacred night of 27 th Ramadan is Layla-tul-Qadr, and Layla-tul-Qadr is better than a thousand months. In this sacred night of Layla-tul-Qadr, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and the blessed angels descend and shake hands with the worshippers. Each and every moment of Layla-tul-Qadr is absolute peace and safety till daybreak. It is a night of abundant goodness, infinite blessings and virtues as well as it is the night of the acceptance of supplications. This sacred night has been bestowed upon this Ummah by virtue of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to a nice parable in connection with this sacred night and have delightful feelings:

A faith-refreshing parabl e

Sayyiduna Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه worshipped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for a thousand years in such a way that he would offer Salah the whole night, Sawm during the day and fight unbelievers in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so strong that he could break heavy iron chains with his hands. When the wicked unbelievers saw that they would not be able to defeat Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه they persuaded his wife, tempting her by a lot of wealth, to tie him with strong ropes while he was asleep and then hand him over to them.

The unfaithful wife tied him with ropes while he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asleep. When Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه awoke and found himself tied up, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه broke the ropes with no difficulty, setting himself free. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked his wife ‘Who tied me?’ Pretending to be loyal, the unfaithful wife lied, ‘I was just testing as to how strong you are, and wanted to see how you would free yourself.’ The incident was then ignored.

Despite failing the first time, his unfaithful wife constantly waited for another opportunity to tie her husband in the state of sleep. One night, she had another opportunity to do what she wanted. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to sleep, his cruel wife cunningly tied him with iron chains. As soon as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه woke up, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه broke the chains instantly and became free easily. Though shocked, his wife cunningly made the same excuse again, ‘I was just testing

your strength.’ During the conversation, Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه revealed his secret to his wife that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed him with the status of Wilayat and nothing could harm him in the world except his own hair.’

The cunning wife understood what he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه meant. Worldly riches had blinded her. One day she found the opportunity to tie him with his own eight tresses whose length was up to the ground (He was the saint of previous Ummah. The Sunnah of the blessed hair of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is till the shoulders). When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه awoke he tried hard to free himself but could not succeed.

The disloyal woman that was intoxicated by worldly riches handed over her pious and righteous husband to the enemies. The malicious unbelievers tied Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to a pillar and brutally mutilated his nose and ears and cut out his eyes. The wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ was intensified by the helplessness of His Wali. The cruel unbelievers were sunk into the ground and a lightning of wrath struck the unfaithful, selfish, unfortunate wife, burning her to ashes. (Extracted from: Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 306)

When the honourable companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم heard about the worships, fights and struggles of Sayyiduna Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, they were impressed by him and said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! We have been given very short lives some part of which is spent in sleeping, working, preparing food and in other worldly affairs. We cannot worship like Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Bani Israel will surpass us in worship.’

Having listened to it, Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became sad. Instantly, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام arrived and presented Surah Al-Qadr from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم was comforted and reassured that ‘every year We have granted your Ummah a sacred night; if they worship Me in this night they shall surpass the thousand months’ worship of Sham’oon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Derived from: Tafseer-e-‘Azeezi, vol. 4, pp. 434)

اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر! Dear Islamic brothers! How merciful and kind Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to the Ummah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon us this magnificent night for the sake of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If

we worship in Layla-tul-Qadr we will earn more reward than the worship of a thousand months. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the excellence of Shab-e-Qadr:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever offers Salah with faith and sincerity at this night [i.e. Shab-e-Qadr] shall be forgiven for all of his previous sins. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 660, Hadees 2014)

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Layla-tul-Qadr is in the odd nights of the last ten days of Ramadan, i.e. 21 st, 23 rd, 25 th, 27 th, 29 th or the last night of Ramadan. Whoever worships in this night with faith in order to earn reward will be forgiven for all his previous sins.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 408, Hadees 22805)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you listened! Layla-tul-Qadr is so important that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed a whole Surah, describing its excellence. In this blessed Surah Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned several unique qualities of this sacred night:

اِنَّاۤ اَنْزَلْنٰهُ فِیْ لَیْلَةِ الْقَدْرِۚۖ(۱) وَ مَاۤ اَدْرٰىكَ مَا لَیْلَةُ الْقَدْرِؕ(۲) لَیْلَةُ الْقَدْرِ ﳔ خَیْرٌ مِّنْ اَلْفِ شَهْرٍؕؔ (۳) تَنَزَّلُ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ وَ الرُّوْحُ فِیْهَا بِاِذْنِ رَبِّهِمْۚ-مِنْ كُلِّ اَمْرٍۙۛ(۴) سَلٰمٌ ﱡ هِیَ حَتّٰى مَطْلَعِ الْفَجْرِ۠(۵) Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Undoubtedly, We sent it down in the blessed night. And do you know what the blessed night is? The blessed night is better than a thousand months. Therein descend angels and Jibra`eel by the commandment of their Rab for every affair. That is all peace till the rising of the dawn. (Part 30, Surah Al-Qadr)

Look for it during odd nights

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has decided to keep Layla-tul-Qadr a secret, so we don’t know for sure as to which night Layla-tul-Qadr is. The Beloved

and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Look for Layla-tul-Qadr in the odd nights of the last ten days of Ramadan (i.e. the 21 st, 23 rd, 25 th, 27 th and the 29 th).’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 662, Hadees 2020)

Why was Layla-tul-Qadr kept secret?

Remember! There are thousands of wisdoms in every Divine work of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has many wisdoms behind keeping the Layla-tul-Qadar secret. Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in his famous commentary ‘ Tafseer-e-Kabeer ’, There are several reasons why Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed the exact date of Layla-tul-Qadr:

1. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has concealed many things such as His pleasure in obedience so that people would perform every form of worship, His wrath in sins so that people would avoid every single sin, His Awliya (saints) amongst His servants so that people would respect every single person, the fulfilment of supplications in making supplications so that people would make supplications abundantly, the Ism-e-A’zam amongst His names so that people would respect every name and the Salat-e-Wusta amongst the Salah so that people would offer all the Salah.

Likewise, the acceptance of repentance has been kept secret so that people always repent of their sins and the time of death has also been kept secret so that people always fear it. Similarly, Layla-tul-Qadr has been kept secret so that people respect all the nights of Ramadan.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has kept this night secret so that people would struggle hard to acquire it and earn reward for their struggles.

Since people are unaware as to which night Layla-tul-Qadr is, they will try to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ every night of Ramadan in search of Layla-tul-Qadr.

As per the opinion of the majority of scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی اَجۡمَعِیۡن Layla-tul-Qadr is the 27 th night of Ramadan every year.

The 27 th night, Layla-tul-Qadr

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 1161 of his book ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ [Blessings of Sunnah]:

Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ holds the opinion that the 27 th night of Ramadan is Layla-tul-Qadr. (Tafseer Saawi, vol. 6, pp. 2400)

Ghaus-e-A’zam Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا also had the same opinion.

Sayyiduna Shah ‘Abdul ‘Azeez Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also one of the scholars that favoured the opinion that Layla-tul-Qadr is the 27 th night of Ramadan. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has given two proofs in favour of his opinion. Firstly, there are 9 letters in the Arabic word ‘ لَيۡلَةُ الۡقَدۡر ’ (Layla-tul-Qadr) and this word appeared 3 times in Surah Al-Qadr. If 9 is multiplied by 3 the total is 27, which hints that Layla-tul-Qadr is the 27 th night. Secondly, there are 30 words in this Surah and the 27 th word is ‘ هِيَ ’ (the Arabic pronoun for ‘it’) which refers to Layla-tul-Qadr. In other words, this is a hint from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the righteous that Layla-tul-Qadr is the 27 th night. (Tafseer-e-‘Azeezi, vol. 4, pp. 437)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the light of the blessed sayings of the many pious people, it is learnt that the 27 th night of Ramadan is the blessed night of Layla-tul-Qadr. Remember! Layla-tul-Qadr is surely a night of forgiveness and worship but it does not mean at all that in this one sacred night, we wholeheartedly engage ourselves in the acts of worship, recitation of Glorious Quran, supererogatory Salahs, blessed charity acts, Zikr, glorifying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, blessed Sunan and Mustahabbat acts, supplication with weeping, night vigil etc. And after this sacred night, we disassociate ourselves from the good deeds under this misconception and misunderstanding that we have already accumulated virtues abundantly and have enrolled our names amongst those who have attained salvation and will perform the acts of worship abundantly next year and until that time lead a life full of sins.

Remember! After having performed a little worship and then indulging in sinful acts under such false and hollow hopes that we will seek forgiveness is a sign of sheer negligence and letting ourselves be overtaken by deception.

Aspiration of forgiveness despite disobedience

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan that at present there is no lack of such people who, despite their wrongdoings, consider themselves to be deserving of the reward of Hereafter, similarly, some sensible people, trapped by this misconception of Satan, remain indulged in sinful acts commenting that though we are sinful but we are the devotee of so and so Kamil Peer (perfect spiritual guide) so we will be forgiven and we will not be seized over our wrongdoings. Such type of people should ponder over as to who they are representing after all by adopting this mind-set. It is perhaps the same era that mentioned in the following narration. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 3, pp. 464)

Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Soon the [Glorious] Quran in the hearts of people will go weak like a piece of cloth [which] pulls apart after it gets weak. They will recite [Glorious] Quran without any interest and pleasure. Their deeds will be based on greed alone. If they lack in (carrying out good deeds), they will have no fear [against it]. [They] will say we will reach our [destination] (i.e., we will make up this deficiency). And if they commit evil act, they will say that soon we will be forgiven because we do not associate partner with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Daarimi, Kitab Fazaail-ul-Quran, vol. 2, pp. 531, Hadees 3346)

Dear Islamic brothers! In our society too, some such people exist who remained engaged in the acts of disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night, and Satan plunge them into this deception that why do we put themselves into any difficulty to carry out good deeds as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is most forgiving and merciful, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant us forgiveness.

Instructing such people, Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Under such scenario, it is incumbent upon a person that he should scare his Nafs from the Divine wrath and the awful torments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and should say that along with being the Forgiver, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also inflicts severe punishment. Though, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Gracious but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will cast the disbelievers into Hell for ever; despite the fact that their disbelief can cause no harm to Him. As He عَزَّوَجَلَّ inflicts torment, trouble, diseases, poverty, hunger etc., He عَزَّوَجَلَّ also has the power and authority to keep these sufferings away

from the people; so, when the Almighty deal with people by this method then why should I not have fear of Him when He has frightened me and how could I remain in deception from Him?

Further he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه added: Fear and hope are the guides and torch bearers that persuade the people into carrying out virtues, and the thing which does not bring about inclination to do good deeds is an aspiration and deception and those who pin hopes usually show negligence to the righteous deeds due to it. When they remain attracted to the world, disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and by not performing good deeds for the Hereafter, they remain in deception. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has conveyed this message and said that shortly the people of the last era of this Ummah will be overtaken by deception. Things happened exactly as were stated by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as the people of beginning era used to engage in the acts of worship and good deeds on the permanent basis and despite that they had this fear that they have to go back to Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Despite being incredibly pious and preventing suspicions, they used to weep in seclusion for their Nafs but now situation is contrary as you will see people remain happy, satisfied and fearless even though they have plunged headlong into the sins, focussed the world all the way and have disobeyed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They believe that they have firm faith in the Divine grace and favour, and hope that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant them forgiveness; it is as if, the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were deprived of the spiritual truth and knowledge what they have attained now and if forgiveness was obtained only through the aspiration of it then despite performing the virtuous deeds abundantly, why did they (pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) remain sad, and fear Divine torment.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 473-474)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those Muslims who have true devotion towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never show negligence towards worship. After carrying out virtuous deeds, they don’t imagine themselves amongst those who obtained salvation and do not wait for the blessed month of Ramadan, blessed Friday, Shab-e-Bara`at, Layla-tul-Qadr for righteous deeds rather these blessed people engross themselves in the acts

of worship and devotion all the time round the year. They refrain themselves from sins and do not show negligence in obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ even for a moment but despite this fact the fear of Hell remain dominated them to such an extent that those who look at them feel pity on them. Let’s! Listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

I am from guilty people!

Out of the intensity of fear, Sayyiduna Miswar Bin Makhramah [ مسور بن مخرمہ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ] was not able to listen to anything from the Glorious Quran even when a single alphabet or any Ayah was recited before him, he would scream and fall unconscious and then would not regain his conscience till many days. One day a person from the Khas’am tribe approached him and recited the blessed Quranic Ayahs of Surah Maryam:

یَوْمَ نَحْشُرُ الْمُتَّقِیْنَ اِلَى الرَّحْمٰنِ وَفْدًاۙ(۸۵) وَّ نَسُوْقُ الْمُجْرِمِیْنَ اِلٰى جَهَنَّمَ وِرْدًاۘ(۸۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: On the day when We shall assemble the righteous towards the Most Gracious, as guests. And drive the guilty towards Hell, thirsty. (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 85, 86)

Listening to this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Ah! I am from the guilty people and I am not from the pious people. O the Quran reciter! Recite again. When he recited again, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ let out a scream and his soul departed from his body. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 227)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ ﴿﴾

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the fire.

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ ﴿﴾

O Protector, O Protector, O Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ ﴿﴾

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O Allah, the Most Merciful.

I do not know

In the same way, when Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Rawahah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ intended to go towards Syria, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ began to weep; seeing him weeping, the family members were also in tears. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, while relating the reason of weeping said: Neither am I weeping due to the fear of death nor due to your love rather I am weeping due to this blessed saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Thereafter he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ recited the Ayah 71 of Surah Maryam, part 16:

وَ اِنْ مِّنْكُمْ اِلَّا وَارِدُهَاۚ-كَانَ عَلٰى رَبِّكَ حَتْمًا مَّقْضِیًّاۚ(۷۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And there is none among you who shall not pass over Hell; this is an obligatory affair, binding upon your Lord.

I believe that I will have to pass through it too but I do not know whether I will be successful or not. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 165, Raqm 366)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ ﴿﴾

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the fire.

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ ﴿﴾

O Protector, O Protector, O Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ ﴿﴾

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O Allah, the Most Merciful.

Fell unconscious after listening to the name of Hell

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Wahb Fahri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had learned 100000 Ahadees by heart. He was excessively engrossed by Divine fear. Once he was in his bathroom, someone recited this blessed Ayah, ‘ وَ اِذۡ یَتَحَآجُّوۡنَ فِی النَّارِ ’ (Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when they will quarrel amongst themselves in the fire). [1] The moment he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ heard the name of ‘Hell’, he fell down unconscious and regained his conscience after some time. Similarly, once one of his pupils read out an account of Hereafter; gripped by fear, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ fell down unconscious and the people took him to his house. Whenever he would regain his conscience, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would overcome by uncontrollable shivering and then he would faint. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ died in the very state.

(Awliya-e-Rijaal-ul-Hadees, pp. 190-191)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ ﴿﴾

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the fire.

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ ﴿﴾

O Protector, O Protector, O Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ ﴿﴾

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O Allah, the Most Merciful.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to tremble with fear despite being pious, abstinent and obedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that even some of them, overwhelmed by fear of Hell, would sob to the extent that their soul would depart their bodies. If we too, along with worshipping in the blessed month of Ramadan and in the sacred nights of Ramadan specially on the 27 th of Ramadan, spend our whole lives in worshipping and obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then on the Day of Judgement, in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we could become successful in preventing ourselves from the torment of Hell. But alas! There are some people amongst us who could not make efforts to obtain salvation and failed to carry out virtues in the blessed month; thus wasted the whole blessed month in negligence, hanging in markets and using social media. Neither could they offer Salah, nor did they have privilege to recite the Glorious Quran, nor did they offer Taraweeh Salah, nor did they take part in night vigil [virtues] and nor did they have privilege to feel ashamed of their wrongdoings.

The first blessed ‘Asharah of Ramadan full of blessings, came and passed, thereafter the second blessed ‘Asharah of Ramadan with the glad tidings of forgiveness came and departed from us, after that the third blessed ‘Asharah of Ramadan ‘freedom from Hell’ came and it is also moving towards its end. Now this blessed month is a guest of a few days and is about to depart from us. Ponder over it if we could not succeed in seeking refuge from Hell fire by carrying out virtuous acts in this blessed month and in the sacred nights and then after our death there would be an announcement of Hell for us then how our infirm and delicate body will endure the horrible torment of Hell? Remember! The horrors, terrors and the torments of Hell send a hair-raising shudder in the bodies as soon as one hears about them.

Remember! The hellfire was kindled for one thousand years until it reddened, then it was kindled for one thousand years until it whitened, then it was

kindled for one thousand years until it became blackened, so it is dark and black. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 266, Hadees 2600)

Swearing an oath Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: If the Hell is opened just equal to the needle-hole, so the people of the entire earth will die of its heat and said swearing an oath: If only a link of the chain of hell-dwelling people is placed on the mountains of the world, so the mountains will start trembling and they will not become calm until they sink beneath the earth. (Ibn Majah, pp. 528, Hadees 4318)

But it is very surprising that human performs deeds leading to Hell, and does not fear that fire, from which even worldly fire also fears and seeks refuge. How deep the Hell is only Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 165)

In Hell, angels will beat with such heavy iron hammers that if any of the hammers is placed on the earth, so all the humans and jinns together will not be able to lift it. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 4, pp. 58, Hadees 11233)

Thorny euphorbia (a kind of thorny poisonous tree which produces milk) will be given to eat; if one drop of it descends in this world, the burning sensation and the unpleasant smell of it will destroy the economy of the entire world. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 263, Hadees 2594)

They (Hell dwellers) will ask for water. Extreme boiling water will be given to them; when it will be brought closer to them it will melt their face skin and complete skin of their face will fall into it. Then as soon as it enters the body it will cut up their intestines into pieces. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 264, Hadees 2595)

The thirst would be of intensity that they will rush to get that water with so much effort like extremely thirsty camels do. (Al-Budur-us-Saafirah, pp. 428, Hadees 1446)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ ﴿﴾

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the fire.

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ ﴿﴾

O Protector, O Protector, O Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ ﴿﴾

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O Allah, the Most Merciful.

VCD Ijtima’ – One of the 12 Madani activities

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah Dawat-e-Islami is giving the Madani mind-set of ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ along with the mind-set of giving upbringing to children according to the Islamic teachings. Therefore parents should associate themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and make intention to participate in 12 Madani activities actively. VCD Ijtima’ is one of the weekly 12 Madani activities. Islamic brothers gain Islamic knowledge by listening or watching the Sunnah-inspiring Bayan [speech] collectively. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ gaining Islamic knowledge collectively has lots of blessings.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When you pass by the flower-beds of Jannah, pick something from them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم humbly said: What are the flower-beds of Jannah? The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Halqahs [gatherings] of Zikr [remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ]. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 304, Raqm 3521)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of attending VCD Ijtima’, Madani transformation has occurred in the lives of many devotees of Rasool. For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith refreshing Madani parable:

Madani parable

An Islamic brother from Lahore (Pakistan) stated that a person running a billiards club in their area used to sell wine and show obscene movies. When

he watched the programs of Madani Channel in Ramadan 1429 AH he got so impressed that he not only put an end to the business of selling wine etc. but also closed down the billiard club within two days.

عطائے حبیبِ خدا مَدَنی ماحول ہے فیضانِ غوث و رضا مَدَنی ماحول

سلامت رہے یا خدا مَدَنی ماحول بچے نظرِ بد سے سدا مَدَنی ماحول

سنور جائیگی آخِرت اِن شَاءَ الله تم اپنا ئے رکھو سدا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Brief introduction to departments of Dawat-e-Islami

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is a non-political movement to fill our Masajid and to spread the call towards righteousness across the world. Its aim is to propagate this mind-set ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is carrying out Madani work in approximately 103 departments in order to spread the Sunnah and the call towards righteousness. In order to run all these departments, funds not only millions but billions are needed. 452 Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (for boys and girls) have been established in the country and across the world in which approximately 30,354 male and female students are studying the Dars-e-Nizami Course separately. Furthermore, 2,475 Madaris-tul-Madinah (for boys and girls) have also been established in which approximately 113,118 Madani children (boys and girls) are receiving the education of Hifz and Naazirah free of charge.

Madani Channel has become a source of reformation for countless of Muslims as well as for unbelievers who are embracing Islam. Millions of devotees of the Beloved Rasool are acquiring Islamic knowledge through it. The Madani Muzakarah Silsilah (program) is broadcast live twice daily after ‘Asr and Taraweeh on Madani Channel during Ramadan. Besides Ramadan, Madani Muzakarah is broadcast live once a week.

Currently 12 Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat offices have been established, Al- Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah, Majlis Maktubaat and Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah are actively assisting hundreds of thousands of Muslims who are benefiting.

In addition to this, Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah), constructions and arrangements of other Masajid, Madani training centres, different training courses (for example, Fard ‘Uloom Course, Imamat Course, Mudarris Course, Madani Training Course, Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course, Qufl-e- Madinah Course, Faizan-e-Islam Course, Faizan-e-Quran and Hadees Course, 12-Day Madani Course etc.), Weekly Ijtima’aat, Ijtima’aat of sacred nights (for example, night of Milad, Giyarhween, night of Mi’raaj, Shab-e-Bara`at [night of Bara`at] and Shab-e-Qadr [night of Qadr] etc.), congregational I’tikaf of the whole month of Ramadan/last ten-days I’tikaf, in short in order to promote the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami in an organized manner, approximately 103 departments are currently operating, and these require huge amounts of money. You too are requested to collect as much Madani donations as you can and help Dawat-e-Islami in spreading the call towards righteousness.

Dear Islamic brothers! We are hearing about the virtues of Layla-tul-Qadr along with Divine rewards and favours which are bestowed on those fortunate people who remain busy worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In this sacred night, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly showers Divine mercy on his bondmen and grants them deliverance from Hell after forgiving their sins but still there are such unfortunate people who remain deprived of forgiveness even in this sacred night.

Angels descend with flag s

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: In Layla-tul-Qadr, Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, accompanied by a large number of angels, descends onto the earth with a green flag he hoists it on the top of the Ka’bah. Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has 100 arms, two of which he opens only at this night. These arms spread across the east and the west. Then Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام commands the angels to say Salam and shake hands with every Muslim who is offering Salah or making the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to say Aameen to their supplications. This process continues till dawn (Subh-e-Sadiq).

In the morning, Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام commands all the angels to return. The angels say, ‘O Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام what about the needs of the Ummah of Beloved Rasool Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replies, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has seen them with mercy and has forgiven all of them except four types of people.’

The honourable companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are those four types of people?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘(1) Alcoholics (2) Disobedient to parents (3) Those who break ties with relatives (4) Those who bear malice and grudge against each other and break ties.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 336, Hadees 3695)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you realize how blessed and sacred Layla-tul-Qadr is? Everyone is forgiven at this night, but the alcoholics, those who disobey their parents, break ties with relatives and have malice and grudge against fellow Muslim brothers without a valid reason of Shari’ah are not forgiven.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Neither sit in the company of alcoholics nor visit them if they are ill, and do not participate in their funeral Salah. An alcoholic will come on the Day of Judgement in such a state that his face would have turned black, his tongue would be hanging out towards his chest, saliva would be drooling out of his mouth and everyone looking at will hate him.’

(Al-Kamil fi Du’afa-ir-Rijaal, Raqm 399, Hakm Bin ‘Abdullah, vol. 2, pp. 502)

Dear Islamic brothers! It’s a fact that the one hurting the feelings of parents receives punishment even in the world. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills He عَزَّوَجَلَّ can delay the punishment for every sin until the Day of Judgement, but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ punishes the one disobedient to his parents within his lifetime.’ (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, vol. 5, pp. 216, Hadees 7345)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lies in the pleasure of parents and the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lies in the displeasure of parents. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 177, Hadees 7830)

The punishment for a sin which is immediately given in the world and its torment is stored [to be given] in the Hereafter as well, is not greater than rebellion and severing ties with relatives. (Suna-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 229, Hadees 2519)

Dear Islamic brothers! Everyone should ponder which relatives they have differences with. If anyone finds out any quarrel with any relative, he should immediately make efforts for reconciliation with displeased relatives provided there is no Shar’i prohibition. Even if you have to degrade yourself, do it for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . You will reach heights of respect, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ ﴿ مَنۡ تَوَاضَعَ لِلّٰهِ رَفَعَهُ اللّٰهُ﴾ ’ That is, one who shows humility for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is granted loftiness by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 276, Hadees 8140)

Evil consequence of interest

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that those unfortunates who remain deprived of forgiveness one of them is interest taker, is not granted salvation in the sacred night. Sayyiduna Ibn Hajar Haytami Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: When I was younger, I used to go to the grave of my blessed father رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه regularly where I used to recite Glorious Quran. Once in the blessed month of Ramadan, I went to the graveyard after Fajr Salah and probably it was the last ‘Asharah of Ramadan rather Layla-tul-Qadr. Except for me, there was no one in the graveyard. Anyhow, hardly I recited a little from Glorious Quran, suddenly I heard someone weeping, and he was repeatedly saying ‘ah’, ‘ah’, ‘ah’. It was a bright whitish grave prepared by white wash producing that sound. It panicked me. I stopped recitation and tried to hear. I heard the sound of torment coming from the inside of that grave. I kept hearing it for a while; when there was sunlight all around, that voice was no longer audible.

Thereafter, a man passed by me, I asked him as to who is buried here in this grave. He told me about a person whom I saw in my childhood. He used to come to Masjid abundantly, and used to perform his Salah with punctuality and did not use to indulge in unnecessary conversation. As I had seen him so I identified him but the present condition of this man exerted huge impact on me. I learnt that his righteous deeds in his life were merely showing off

tactics. Curious about the incident, I talk to the people who knew the truth. People told me: He was a trader and used to take interest money and when he grew old he had left with little amount of money and his wicked Nafs was not agreed to lead a life with it and the Satan infused in him the love for interest so that his wealth remains intact and it is for the reason he has been suffering the horrible torment even in the blessed month of Ramadan and even during the sacred night of Layla-tul-Qadr.

(Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol. 1, pp. 32)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ ﴿﴾

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the fire.

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ ﴿﴾

O Protector, O Protector, O Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ ﴿﴾

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O Allah, the Most Merciful.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that how unfortunate is an interest taker that the sacred night of Layla-tul-Qadr when the blessing of forgiveness is granted to the multitude of people but he keeps suffering the affliction of torment. Alas! Today our society has badly overtaken by this plague of interest. Remember! Interest is absolutely Haraam and the act leading to Hell. One who denies its prohibition is disbeliever and the one who indulges in it, despite knowing it being Haraam, is a transgressor and Mardood-ush-Shahadah (one whose testimony is not acceptable). Therefore, safety lies just in seeking the pleasure of Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ being content with what we rightfully possess, and keep ourselves away from such type of people and institutions that incline us to commit major sins. Interest taker should seek true repentance

for this major sins meeting the Shar’i rulings before this sacred night of Layla-tul- Qadr is passed otherwise the torment of Hell is unbearable.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: In the night of Mi’raaj, I passed by such people whose stomachs were like houses with snakes in them which were also visible from the outside of their stomachs. I asked Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام), ‘Who are these people?’ He replied, ‘They used to take interest.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 72, Hadees 2273)

Introduction of book ‘Sood aur is ka Ilaj’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to safeguard the Muslims from interest or interest based bargaining and to warn them of the perils of interest, a very informative booklet has been published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. It contains the important topics such as ‘Worldly and Hereafter perils of interest’, ‘Painful torment for interest takers’ and ‘How to refrain from interest’ etc. So, buy this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah today and besides reading it yourself, also motivate other Islamic brothers to read it. This book can also be read online from Dawat-e-Islami’s website: www.dawateislami.net, or can be downloaded for free and can also be printed out.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Ramadan is moving towards its end, thereafter, Shawwal-ul-Mukarram is just round the corner. The fortunate Muslims also take the privilege of observing 6 Siyam of blessed Shawwal and obtain its blessings. Let’s listen to the virtues of these 6 Siyam of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram in order to develop our eagerness for this blessed deed and have privilege to observe these 6 Siyam:

1. The one observing Sawm in Ramadan and then six days in Shawwal has been cleansed from sins as if he was born from his mother’s womb today. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 5102)

Whoever observes Siyam in Ramadan and then six Siyam in Shawwal, it is as if he has observed Siyam for his entire life.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 592, Hadees 1164)

The one observing Sawm for six days after Eid-ul-Fitr (in Shawwal) has observed Sawm the entire year because whoever brings one good deed will get ten rewards (for it). (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 333, Hadees 1715)

Khalil-e- Millat, Shaykh ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qaadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated, ‘Though there is no harm if somebody keeps these Siyam consecutively after Eid-ul-Fitr, it is better to keep them separately, i.e. one after Eid-ul-Fitr, then two in every week. If it takes the whole month to have these six Siyam, it seems even more appropriate.’

(Sunni Bihishti Zaywar, pp. 347)

In other words, one can keep six Siyam whenever he wants in the whole month of Shawwal except the day of Eid-ul-Fitr.

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of conversation

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

1. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

3. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a newborn baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

4. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

5. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

6. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

7. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) and Heaven is Haraam on the one engaged in indecent speech. (Kitab-us-Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Raqm 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the devotees of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

