اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

The Horrific End of Yazeed

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Sayyiduna Shaykh Husayn Bin Ahmad Kawwaaz Bisaati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I prayed to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to see Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Muazzin in my dream. My prayer was answered and I saw him in my dream in a very good condition. I asked him, ‘O Abu Saalih! Tell me something about you?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘I would have been destroyed if I had not recited Salat upon the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance. (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 136)

چارۂ بے چار گاں پر ہوں دُرودیں صد ہزار بے کسوں کے حامی و غمخوار پر لاکھوں سلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Muharram-ul-Haraam is that month in which the most awful event of the battle of Karbala took place where 72 esteemed personalities including the blessed grandson [Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ] of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were oppressed by Yazeed and his evil followers, such was their cruelty that causes distress for the true lovers of the blessed companions and the Ahl-e-Bayt (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). These disgusting people who were responsible for cruelty and the martyrdom of these prominent figures had miserable deaths which were witnessed by the whole world, and these oppressors will also suffer disgrace and humiliation in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to the cruelty and the awful end of the filthy Yazeed.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Yazeed was that unfortunate person who has the dark spot of the ruthless killing of the innocent Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم on his forehead; he will be cursed in every era by the Muslim Ummah until the Day of Judgement. Yazeed the evil hearted was born in 25 th Hijri in Damascus. He was extremely fat, excessively hairy, a transgressor, a drunkard, very offensive, cruel, ill-mannered, blasphemous; his cruel activities are beyond description, besides that, he introduced incest (marriage with those whom it is forbidden to marry) and he promoted usury/interest. (Sawanih Karbala, pp. 111)

From time to time, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did inform the blessed Sahabah Kiraam about the Fitnah (turmoil) of Yazeed.

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, I have heard the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَنۡ يُّبَدِّلُ سُنَّتِيۡ رَجُلٌ مِّنۡ بَنِيۡ اُمَيَّةَ يُقَالُ لَهُ يَزِيۡدُ ’ The first person in the Ummah to change the Sunnah will be a person from the Banu Umayyah called Yazeed. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 65, pp. 250)

In another place, the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ The affairs of the Ummah will be maintained with justice until a person Yazeed from the Banu Umayyah will be the first to cast a crack. ’

(Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 427, Hadees 7709)

Upon the prophecy of the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to pray before his demise: ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰهِ مِنۡ رَأۡسِ السِّتِّيۡنَ وَاِمَارَ ةِ الصِّبۡيَان ’, i.e., O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, let me not reach 60 AH and the rule of the boys. Therefore, his supplication was answered and he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away in 59 th Hijri in Madinah Munawwarah and exactly in the 60 th Hijri, Yazeed began his rule. (‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 261)

Commenting on the cruelties done by Yazeed and about the motive behind it, Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Yazeed knew that Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would be completely against him and meet his evil activities with stiff resistance so he could not act upon his wicked plans, he knew that the whip of Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is always hovering over his head, it is for this reason that he perpetuated great oppression against Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the martyrdom of Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had become the source of great delight for him.

Shortly after the blessed martyrdom of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, Yazeed was unleashed to commit major sins; he declared Nikah (marriage contract) between brother and sister permissible, usury, alcohol, fornication and other such terrible acts were prevalent, Salah was abandoned; insurgency and mutiny was at its peak, he had surpassed all levels of evil, even Muslim Bin ‘Uqbah at the head of 12,000 or 20000 soldiers was sent to attack Madinah Munawwarah in 63 Hijri. The city of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was brutally attacked and such horrifying atrocities were perpetuated upon its citizens as the very thought of them makes one’s hair stand on end. There was plunder and massacre on a large scale and he declared the lives of the people of Madinah Munawwarah and their properties permissible for 3 days,

which meant that for 3 days, the evil army could do whatever they liked with the lives and the properties of the people of Madinah Munawwarah. Thus, in those 3 days, he martyred more than 10 thousand people, kept the boys captives and such barbaric cruelties which are indescribable, his evil army tied horses to the pillars of Masjid-un-Nabawi. Only Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained in Masjid-un-Nabawi under the pretext of being insane. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Hanzalah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said: We feared that due to his evil practices, we might be bombarded with stones from the skies as a result of the Wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp.221)

Thereafter, this evil army left for Makka-tul-Mukarramah, the chief of this evil army died on the way with another person filling his position. Yazeed’s evil army attacked Makkah Mukarramah, catapulting the Sacred Ka’bah with stones and cloth soaked in kerosene oil and other inflammable ammunition resulting in the Sacred Ka’bah being burnt, its pillars collapsed and the roof was demolished where the horns of the ram were secured as a sacred relic which was sacrificed in exchange of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام ; those blessed horns were also burnt. The Holy Ka’bah was left uncovered for many days and the natives of Makkah Mukarramah suffered the severe tribulation inflicted upon them by Yazeed’s evil army. (Khulasah Sawanih Karbala, pp. 177 to 179)

Dear Islamic brothers! Blood and brutality were the common features until the filthy Yazeed remained alive, his entire life is an awful story of ruthlessness, he has the blood of the martyrs of Karbala and the people of Makkah and Madinah on his hands. His intolerance and his insane lust of power made him commit the most evil acts. He was supposed to endorse the majesty and eminence of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and serve him, by keeping in view the blessed sayings of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and attain Jannah. However Satan was riding on him and he wore the iron collar of slavery fulfilling his ulterior motives, he mercilessly destroyed the caravan of the innocent Ahl-e-Bayt, just this imagination makes one’s hair stand on end and makes one’s moisten.

These blasphemous traitors never cared of this fact that the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم clearly glorified the eminence and greatness of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

§ هُمَا رَيۡحَانَتَايَ مِنَ الدُّنۡيَا: i.e. Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) are two flowers of mine in the world. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 547, Hadees)

§ اَلۡحَسَنُ وَالۡحُسَيۡنُ سَيِّدَا شَبَابِ اَهۡلِ الۡجَنَّةِ: i.e., Hasan and Husayn are the leaders of the youth of Jannah. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, Hadees 3793)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

As Imam-e-‘Aali Maqaam, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was extremely merciful and gentle, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued to deliver the sermons to the bloodthirsty and merciless followers of the filthy Yazeed telling them not to wage war on them and prevent cruelty, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ rode his horse in the direction of Yazeed’s evil army and addressed them in such a loud voice that everyone heard it: ‘O people! Listen to what I say and do not make haste, so that I may fulfil the responsibility (to counsel you) which rests upon me and that I may submit my plea regarding my arrival towards you. Then if you accept my plea and believe my words while giving me justice, then you shall be fortunate and there will be no excuse for you to fight with me. And if you do not accept my word and deal unjustly with me, then

فَاَ جۡمِعُوۡۤ ا اَ مۡـرَکُمۡ وَ شُرَ کَآ ءَکُمۡ ثُمَّ لَا یَکُنۡ

اَمۡـرُکُمۡ عَلَیۡکُمۡ غُمَّۃً ثُمَّ ا قۡضُوۡۤ ا اِلَیَّ وَ لَا تُنۡظِرُوۡنِ ﴿۷۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Muster therefore your designs and (gather) your accomplices, then let not your designs be dubious, then execute on me and give no respite (to me). (Part 11, Surah Yunus, verse 71)

اِ نَّ وَلِیَِّۧ اللہُ ا لَّذِیۡ نَزَّ لَ الۡکِتٰبَ ۫ۖ وَ ہُوَ یَتَوَ لَّی ا لصّٰلِحِیۡنَ ﴿۱۹۶﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And verily my Protector is Allah Who sent down the Book (Quran) and He guards the virtuous ones.

(Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, verse 196)

Having praised and glorified Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Now then! Consider my family, and ponder as to who I am and then warn yourselves. Then do you consider that killing me and plundering my sanctity and respect is lawful for you? Am I not the grandson of your Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and the son of his Vicegerent and cousin, who was the foremost in believing and the bearer of witness upon everything that the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) had brought from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Was not Sayyiduna Hamzah (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ), the chief of martyrs, the uncle of my father? Was not Sayyiduna Ja’far (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ), my uncle? Did not the tradition of the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) reach you in which he has said about me and my brother that both of us are the leaders of the youth of Paradise? Then if you agree to what I say, and verily what I have said is nothing but the truth, then it is better, for by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, from the time I have realized that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ dislikes the liars, I have never ever spoken a lie. Then if you do not believe what I say, there are still living among you the companions of the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Go to them and ask them and they shall bear testimony to the truthfulness of my speech. Ask Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah, Abu Sa’eed, Sahl Bin Sa’d, Zayd Bin Arqam and Anas Bin Maalik (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), they will tell you that they have heard this tradition from the Prophet of Allah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) regarding me and my brother. Is this not sufficient for you to refrain from shedding my blood?

Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued: Then if you doubt this, do you even doubt that I am the grandson of the Prophet of Allah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)? By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! There is no other grandson of the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) in the east or the west except myself from among yourselves or anyone else. Woe be to you! Have I killed anyone from among you whose revenge you desire? Or have I usurped the wealth of anyone or hurt anyone whose

retribution you desire from me? When no one answered him, he called out in a loud voice: O Shabas Bin Rab’ee! O Hajjaar Bin Abjar! O Qays Bin Ash’as! O Zayd Bin Haaris! Have you not written letters to me? They replied that they had not written any such letters. Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Glory be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Yes by Allah, you had written it.

Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued: O people! Then now if you do not like my arrival, then leave me so that I may go away to a place of refuge. Qays Bin Ash’as said, ‘We do not know what you say. Then submit yourselves to your cousins (Banu Umayyah), they shall deal with you in a manner which you like.’ Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I shall not give my pledge of allegiance to him, nor shall I flee like a slave.

Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ called out in a loud voice: O servants of Allah! And verily, I take refuge with my Rab and yours, lest you stone me (to death) and I take refuge with my Rab and yours, from every arrogant one who does not believe in the Day of Reckoning. (Al-Kamil fit-Tareekh, vol. 3, pp. 418-419)

Alas! Driven by the sheer temptation and greed of power and wealth they had plunged into the darkness of ignorance, their hearts were harder than rocks, they were completely overpowered by Satan and its evils, therefore, the sincere words of warnings fell on the deaf ears of these bloodthirsty beasts who only wanted to shed blood.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was already aware of the battle of Karbala and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knew that people who recite the Kalimah testifying to me will shed the blood of my Ahl-e-Bayt, therefore, before his apparent demise, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had related to Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Sayyidah Fatimah and Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in advance that ‘ اَنَا سِلۡمٌ لِمَنۡ سَالَمۡتُمۡ ، وَحَرۡبٌ لِمَنۡ حَارَبۡتُمۡ ’ i.e., Whoever befriends you, I befriend him, one who wages war on you, I will wage war on him.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 145)

Consequently, for the sake of that disgusting power they committed extreme brutalities against the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم bringing about their own destruction and death. Let’s listen to the terrible aftermath of Yazeed’s evil army followed by the horrific and awful end of the filthy Yazeed.

Righteous people are generally privileged to revive & serve the Deen, and sometimes Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ destroys the cruel, disobedient and transgressing people by giving power to other cruel people. Only Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows what His plans are. Based on His Will, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ sets some oppressors to destroy other oppressors. Therefore, it is stated in verse 129 of Surah Al-An’aam:

وَ کَذٰ لِکَ نُوَ لِّیۡ بَعۡضَ ا لظّٰلِمِیۡنَ بَعۡضًا بِمَا کَا نُوۡا یَکۡسِبُوۡ نَ ﴿۱۲۹﴾ ٪

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And likewise we empower some of the oppressors over others the recompense of their deeds.

(Part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, verse 129)

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ allows the religion of Islam to be helped even through a transgressor i.e. a sinful person.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 328, Hadees 3062)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ allowed the liar Mukhtar Saqafi, to take revenge for the unjust assassination of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘I destroyed 70 thousand people in lieu of the murder of Yahya Bin Zakariyya (عَـلَـيْهِمَا السَّلَام) and I will destroy double the number of people in lieu of your grandson .’ (Al-Mustadrak, pp. 485, vol. 3, Hadees 4208)

Ibn Ziyad, Ibn Sa’d, Shimr, Qays Ibn Ash’as Kandi, Kholi Ibn Yazeed, Sanaan Ibn Anas Nakh’i, ‘Abdullah Ibn Qays, Yazeed Bin Maalik and the remaining ruined people who were involved or contributed in the martyrdom of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ all faced horrible deaths and horses were made to trample over their dead bodies. (Sawanih Karbala, pp. 158)

After Yazeed, the worst criminal was the governor of Kufa ‘Ubaydullah Ibn Ziyad. It was he who ordered to torture Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his blessed Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . After just 6 years, on the same day i.e. the 10 th of Muharram, 67 AH (by the strategic revenge conducted by Mukhtar Saqafi) Ibn Ziyad was brutally murdered at the hands of the army of Ibraheem Bin Maalik on the banks of the River Euphrates. The soldiers cut off his head and presented it to Ibraheem who then sent it to Mukhtar in Kufa .

(Sawanih Karbala, pp. 123)

The governor’s house in Kufa was adorned for celebrations and the head of Ziyad was exhibited on the same place where the blessed head of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was placed six years back. There was nobody to cry for this ill-fated person; instead people celebrated his death.

(Sawanih Karbala, pp. 123)

It is narrated in a Sahih (authentic) Hadees reported by ‘Imarah Bin ‘Umayr that when the head of ‘Ubaydullah Ibn Ziyad along with those of his accomplices was placed down, he went towards them. Suddenly everyone started screaming, ‘It’s come. It’s come.’ He saw that a snake was coming. It slithered above and between all the heads and finally approached the dirty head of Ibn Ziyad. It entered his nostril, stayed for a while and then left. Everyone started screaming again, ‘It’s come, it’s come.’ The same thing happened two or three times. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 431, Hadees 3805)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: The oppressors were unaware that the holy blood of the martyrs would ultimately lead to their own destruction and the Yazeedi kingdom would be shattered into pieces and that all the people who were involved in the murder of the blessed Imam (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) would be brutally killed. There would be the same bank of the River Euphrates; the same day of ‘Aashura; a similar group of oppressors; and the horses of Mukhtar would trample over them. Their majority would not benefit them. Their hands and feet would be cut; their houses would be robbed; they would be hung;

corpses would rot and everyone in the world would hate them; people would rejoice and celebrate their deaths. In war, they would be in thousands but they would become cowards and would run away like eunuchs. They would find it difficult to save themselves and escape like dogs and mice. Wherever they would be found, they would instantly be ambushed. They would be hated and condemned in the world and on the Day of Judgment.

(Sawanih Karbala, pp. 125)

اے تِشنگانِ خونِ جوانانِ اہلبیت دیکھا کہ تم کو ظُلم کی کیسی سزا ملی

کُتّوں کی طرح لاشے تمہارے سڑا کیے گُھورے پہ بھی نہ گور کو تمہاری جا مِلی

رُسوائے خلق ہو گئے برباد ہو گئے مردُودَو! تم کو ذِلّتِ ہر دَوسرا ملی

تم نے اُجاڑا حضرتِ زَہرا کا بوستان تم خود اُجڑ گئے تمہیں یہ بد دُعا ملی

دُنیا پرستو! دین سے منہ موڑ کر تمہیں دُنیا ملی نہ عیش و طَرب کی ہوا ملی

آخر دِکھایا رنگ شہیدوں کے خون نے سر کَٹ گئے اَماں نہ تمہیں اِک ذرا ملی

پائی ہے کیا نعیم اُنہوں نے ابھی سزا دیکھیں گے وہ جحیم میں جس دن سزا ملی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have briefly heard about the horrible consequences of some of Yazeed’s evil followers like the right hand of Yazeed ‘Ibn Ziyad’ how they were brutally killed by Mukhtar Saqafi. Let’s listen to the horrific end of Yazeed now.

Shortly after the tragic incident of Karbala, Yazeed suffered from an extremely chronic disease, he would twist about like a fish out of water with severe stomach pain and wounds of his intestines. Now, being in the miserable state of his deathbed, when he was sure that death will overcome him, he called his elder son and wanted to advise something about the affairs of governance, his son let out a cry and immediately lashed out at his father’s offer saying, ‘I

cannot accept that throne which is stained with the blood of the blessed progeny of the Noblest Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keep me deprived of this evil person’s inheritance which has the blood of the blessed household of the Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in its roots.’

Having heard these words from his son, Yazeed became depressed and grieved and a few days before his death, his intestines dried up and had worms in it. Due to great pain, he would cry out like an animal even if a single drop of water was given to him, it would prick him like a thorn, it was a strange Divine torment and finally these horrors of pain and agony took his life, his corpse gave out a horrible stink that no one was ready to go near him and he was somehow managed to be buried. (Tareekh-e-Karbala, pp. 345)

Reporting the awful end of Yazeed, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in his booklet ‘ Miraculous Wonders of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn ’: One of the causes that are mentioned for Yazeed’s death is that he fell in love with a Roman girl but that girl actually hated him. One day, she tricked Yazeed to go with her to a deserted area on the pretext of having romance. The cool breeze of that desolate place aroused Yazeed but the lady said that a shameless person who was disloyal and unfaithful to his Prophet’s grandson could never be faithful to her. After saying so she repeatedly stabbed Yazeed with a dagger and left him there. For a few days, vultures and crows feasted on his dead body. Finally, his people explored the dead body. They dug a ditch and dumped his rotten remains. (Awraaq-e-Gham, pp. 550)

Dear Islamic brothers! It was Yazeed’s greed for wealth and status which caused the dreadful and terrible tragedy of Karbala. He feared that Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ would overthrow him whereas Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was totally unconcerned and uninterested in power & authority of this mortal world. In fact, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the ruler of the hearts of Muslims of the past, present and will remain so forever until the Day of Judgement.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the dreadful end of these people who had enmity towards the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم they were even left

uncovered, having no shroud on their bodies after their death, not only do they suffer disgrace in this world but also suffer great humiliation and the hellfire will be their abode.

A little distance from the old graveyard of Damascus named Bab-us-Sagheer, there was a sign of Yazeed’s grave, on which people used to throw stones and bricks many years ago, hence there used to be a heap of bricks. Now a furnace of melting glass and iron is built there. Glass crockery is made in this factory; the fire of the furnace that melts the iron and glass is made exactly on the spot where his grave was situated. This means that fire burns the whole time on Yazeed’s grave. (Shahadat Nawasah Sayyid-ul-Abrar, pp. 918,919)

وہ تَخت ہے کس قَبر میں وہ تاج کہاں ہے

اے خاک بتا زورِ یزید آج کہاں ہے

نہ ہی شِمَر کا وہ سِتَم رہا نہ یزید کی وہ جَفا رہی

جو رہا تو نام حُسَین کا ، جسے زندہ رکھتی ہے کربلا

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard about the terrible end and punishment for the one who has hate for the Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Such an unfortunate person does not even get shrouded after his death and is destined for humiliation in the world whilst also suffering disgrace in the Hereafter. Furthermore, the fire of hell is his abode.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: He who inflicts cruelty to my Ahl-e-Bayt (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) and hurts me about my offspring, Jannah has been made Haraam (forbidden) for him. (Barakaat Aal-e-Rasool, pp. 259)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees that if a person offers Salah and observes fasts standing at a corner of the blessed Baytullah and in the middle

of Maqaam-e-Ibraheem, and then dies whilst having hatred towards the Ahl-e- Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, he will go to Hell. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 129-130, Hadees 4766)

The great Taabi’i saint, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: The people who murdered Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, if are forgiven by the grace and blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so how will they appear before the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If I had been involved in the murder of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and given the options of Paradise and Hell, I would have chosen Hell, due to the fear that how would I face the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 54)

Dear Islamic brothers! The wicked Yazeed who flew into a rage to save his government and empire was overwhelmed by the intoxication of this power, he mercilessly destroyed the family of Fatima-tuz-Zahra (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), leaving the whole Ummah in shock, we feel sad and tears immediately stream down our faces when we hear it. Anyway, we have also learnt from the horrible ends of Yazeed’s evil people that bringing about the hatred of those who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ brings about loss in this world and the Hereafter. The number of personalities martyred in the incident of Karbala, were among the closest saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the unfortunate ones who incur the hatred of the saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, has been given the declaration of war from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ مَنۡ عَادَى لِي وَلِيًّا فَقَدۡ آذَنۡتُهُ بِالۡحَرۡبِ ’, i.e. One who incurs any of my saints’ enmity, I declare war against him. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Yazeed himself did not lead that ill-intentioned evil army of Ibn Ziyad but he provided great support to Ibn Ziyad against all brutalities committed upon the blessed martyrs and captives of the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, even on the order of this transgressor, the chief of the cruel people ‘Ibn Ziyad’ and his sinful army committed blasphemies and & showed extreme

disrespect towards the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in broad daylight and carried out a terrible massacre; therefore, declaring Yazeed faultless is disloyalty to the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, hurting the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is an act of deriving the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and it brings about Divine wrath making one deserving of Hell. The blessed rightly guided caliphs رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are the beacons of light for us; they were the true followers and devoted guardians of the honour & modesty of the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم especially of the eminence and glory of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, they had deep hatred towards the filthy Yazeed even under the governance of these blessed predecessors رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, severe punishments were meted out to those who used to call Yazeed ‘Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen’.

It is stated on page 392 of the 590-page book ‘ Hazrat Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez ki 125 Hikayatayn ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ never recognized Yazeed as caliph, so once a person while mentioning Yazeed, said, ‘The ‘Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen’ (commander of the believers), Yazeed Ibn Mu’awiyah’. On hearing this, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (became angry) and asked, ‘You call Yazeed as Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen?’ He then ordered that he be whipped with 20 lashes.

(Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 209)

A question was raised in the court of A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن whether it was permissible to curse Yazeed by calling him Yazeed Paleed (filthy Yazeed) and is it correct to add ‘ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’ to his name? A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: There is no doubt that Yazeed was impure and using the word Paleed (filthy) for him is correct and using ‘ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’ is impermissible for him as well as for that person who has hatred in his heart towards Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn, that person is an enemy of the Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Risalat رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 14, pp. 603)

‘Allamah Ibn Hajar Haytami Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sayyiduna Saalih Bin Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly said to his father Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: People attribute to us that we are followers of Yazeed. Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘ يَا بُنَيَّ وَهَل يَتَوَلّٰى يَزِيۡدَ اَحَدٌ يُؤمِنُ بِاللّٰهِ ’ My son! Does anyone who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have love for Yazeed? (As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 222)

Mu’awiyah, the elder son of Yazeed, was a pious person and used to hate his father Yazeed due to his disloyalty and wickedness and commented about his father Yazeed: ‘My father was appointed as ruler but he was not entitled to it, he waged war against the blessed grandson of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his lifespan was reduced and his generation was destroyed and he has been suffering torment in his grave until the Hereafter’. Weeping, he continued: ‘The heaviest thing is his horrific end and bad abode, this ill-fated person murdered the blessed progeny of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, made alcohol permissible, destroyed the sacred Ka’bah.

(As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 224)

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: Yazeed was a wrong-doer, transgressor and he had committed major sins, he has no connection to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and nowadays those ignorant and misled people comment: ‘It was their matter, we should avoid discussing it, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is our Prince and (filthy Yazeed) is also our Prince’. People having such thoughts and uttering such types of words are wicked, and those who bear hatred in their hearts towards Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, they deserve Hell. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 261)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Until the earth and heavens continue to exist, the event of Karbala will continue to be mentioned, i.e. the teachings of sacrifice, fortitude, selflessness and propagating of Islam to the true followers and lovers of the blessed companions and the blessed household members رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . In the annals of the history of mankind there is not a single incident which is remembered and commemorated in such a way as the tragedy of Karbala in which the evil followers of Yazeed showed their great evil towards the blessed household members رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Their souls were shackled in the slavery of power and materialistic pleasures. They were quite unheeding to the meaning of character. They had no hesitation in murdering the righteous bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, be they old or young or even infants; many women had become widows and many children had become orphans. Despite losing everything, the true companions of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn, the Hashimi youths, Muslim Bin ‘Aqeel, the children of ‘Aqeel, the blessed sons of Sayyiduna ‘Ali and Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم kept facing the sharp edge of daggers, arrows and swords covered with poison and embraced martyrdom at the blessed feet of the grandson of the Noblest Prophet.

The ruthlessness and barbarism of the Yazeedi evil soldiers was at its peak, t he infant martyr of Karbala, Sayyiduna ‘Ali Asghar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, tormented by the pangs of hunger and thirst, was killed in the most cruel manner. The beautiful bouquet of the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم was badly ravaged by the ambassadors of ignorance & darkness but our lives will be sacrificed for these blessed people who remained steadfast and showed great fortitude and patience for three consecutive days because it was a test from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and it is the eminence of those who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to show great patience and tolerance in the face of great trials and tribulations.

There is an indirect Hadees reported by Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: ‘ حُبُّ الدُّنۡيَا رَأۡسُ كُلِّ خَطِيۡئَ ةٍ ’ Worldliness is the root of all evils .

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 223, Hadees 3662)

It is stated in another Hadees: ‘Two hungry wolves, when set free in a flock of sheep, do not cause as much harm as the greed of wealth and status causes to one’s religion .’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

تاج و تخت و حکومت مت دے کثرتِ مال و دولت مت دے

اپنی رضا کا دے دے مُژدہ یا الله میری جھولی بھردے

Dear Islamic brothers! The 192-page book ‘ Sawanih Karbala ’ is a remarkable publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah which is very informative. Various parts of the battle of Karbala have been discussed with detail along with the excellences and eminence of the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم (the blessed household members of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and the blessed companions of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In addition, it contains the description of all cruelties that took place upon the martyrdom of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as well as the horrific end of Yazeed and his unfortunate followers. Read this book and motivate others to study it. This book can also be read online: www.dawateislami.net, or downloaded for free.

The very first branch of Jami’a-tul-Madinah was inaugurated under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami in 1995 at the second floor of Madrasa-tul-Madinah’s building situated at Godrah colony New Karachi, Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi. With the passage of time, many other branches of Jami’a-tul-Madinah were also opened. By the time of writing of this account (i.e. 5 th Sha’ban 1435 A.H.) 337 Jami’aat by the name of ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah’ have been established where approximately 10,916 Islamic brothers are being educated in Dars-e-Nizami (with boarding and lodging facilities, wherever necessary). Likewise, almost 6,867 Islamic sisters are also being educated in the ‘Aalimah course, free of charge.

Students from Jami’aat of Dawat-e-Islami have been achieving remarkable success for the past many years in the examinations held by Tanzeem-ul-

Madaris; Pakistan, the main nationwide organization for Madaris of Ahl-e-Sunnat. Sometimes, these students achieve 1 st, 2 nd and 3 rd positions as well. The title ‘Madani’ is added to the names of the scholars who achieve the degree of Dars-e-Ni z ami, conferred by Jami’a-tul-Madinah.

I have a deep affection for the students of Dawat-e-Islami’s Jami’aat and Madaris. I also make Du’a for my forgiveness for their sake. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our students offer Nafl Salah in addition to Fard Salah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, many students offer Salat-ut-Taubah, Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht . Thousands of students also hand in their Madani In’amaat booklets and a large number of them travel with Madani Qafilahs. There are also numerous students who have responsibilities of righteous Madani works of Dawat-e-Islami in nearby localities of these Jami’aat and Madaris.

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s bayan we have heard about the oppression that was carried out by the filthy Yazeed and his evil army, followed by their horrific end. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had already informed people about this oppression that the first person in the Ummah to change the Sunnah will be from Banu Umayyah called Yazeed. Even he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم related that the affairs of the Ummah will be maintained with justice, till a person from Banu Umayyah named Yazeed will be the first to cast a crack, it then happened exactly as it was related and this filthy and disgusting person recorded the horrific occurrences in the annals of history which brought tears to the eyes. No one from Makkah to Madinah, from the blessed companions to the blessed household members and even Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained safe from his cruelty. He introduced incest (marrying those with whom it is forbidden to marry) and promoted usury/ interest, fornication, alcohol and other such evil activities.

After the martyrdom of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ they looted and destroyed the pious heritage of Madinah Munawwarah, the same evil army invaded Makkah Mu’azzamah and broke the sanctity of that holy place by bombarding it with stones. The Holy Ka’bah was burnt, pillars collapsed and the roof was demolished, upon which was the horns of the ram were secured

as sacred relics. This ram was sacrificed in exchange of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام ; those blessed horns were also burnt, they set fire to the blessed covering of the sacred Ka’bah which was left uncovered for many days, and the natives of Makkah Mukarramah suffered the severe tribulation inflicted upon them by the evil followers of Yazeed. The most sacred Masjid, ‘Masjid un-Nabawi’ was made impure by the urine and dung of horses; the people who embraced martyrdom during this massacre were more than 10000 in number including the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who were famous for their piety and nobility.

However, the biggest truth is that an evil act leads to an evil end, so, shortly after the battle of Karbala, a Roman girl said to Yazeed that a shameless person who is disloyal and unfaithful to his Prophet’s grandson رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ can never be faithful to me. After saying so she repeatedly stabbed Yazeed with a dagger and left him to die. For a few days, vultures and crows feasted on his corpse. Finally, after an extensive search his people found him. They dug a ditch and dumped his rotten remains, other evil followers of Yazeed also suffered horrific deaths at the hand of Mukhtar Saqafi .

Undoubtedly, all these filthy and evil people will be cursed until the Day of Judgment, as A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـمَنَّان has stated: There is no doubt that Yazeed was impure and using the word ‘Paleed’ (filthy) for him is correct and using ‘ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’ is impermissible for him as well as for those who hold enmity in their hearts towards Sayyiduna ‘Ali and Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم such people are the enemies of the Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Risalat. Besides that, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin ‘Abdul ‘Azeez رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ issued an order of 20 lashes to be given to the person who had called Yazeed ‘Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen’.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us life and death while we have love towards the blessed companions and the blessed household members (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

To refrain from sins, do good deeds and to inculcate the yearning for Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and travel in Madani Qafilahs with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool. One of 12 Madani activities is ‘Travelling in Madani Qafilah’. The true lovers of the Beloved Prophet are engaged in teaching and learning the Sunan, uncountable Madani Qafilahs travel from country to country, city to city, and town to town for three days, 12 days, 30 days and 12 months with dedication to enjoin what is good and forbid what is evil. We should also gather the treasure of virtues by travelling with Madani Qafilahs. If we travel for a few days leaving aside our worldly activities, the company of family and friends for the sake of Allah’s pleasure, we will have an opportunity of seriously contemplating over our lives while travelling with Madani Qafilahs and we would have a desire to prepare for our Hereafter, we would repent for committing past sins and imagine the great punishments that are due for bad deeds, we would also realize our own shortcomings, bringing tears to our eyes because of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated from the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who has stated: ‘The one whose heart beats in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to fear, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes Hell forbidden for him.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, Hadees 24602)

In another place, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Anyone whose feet are covered with dust in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not be touched by the hellfire.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 2811)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for our motivation:

A blessing of Madani Qafilah is presented for your encouragement and persuasion. An Islamic brother of Shahdarah (Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore) gave the following account: I was the only child of my parents; their excessive love

had spoilt me and made me a disobedient son. I used to stay up late and waste my time and sleep till late in the day.

If my parents tried to advise me, I’d shout at them and tell them off. Sometimes they’d even cry. My mother’s eyes would fill with tears making Du’a for my reform. May millions of salutations be to the moment when I was blessed with meeting an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts, he convinced a wicked sinner like me to travel in a Madani Qafilah. I took part in a three day Madani Qafilah with lovers of the Beloved Rasool. The blessed company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool transformed me so profoundly in those three days that my hard heart which was not even affected by my mother’s tears became soft.

A Madani revolution took place in my heart and I started offering Salah regularly during the Madani Qafilah. When I returned, I said Salam, kissed my father’s hand and my mother’s feet. Everyone was shocked to see such a great positive change in my behaviour!

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool during the Madani Qafilah completely changed me and, at the time of making this statement, this sinner who did not use to offer Salah, has now got the responsibility of waking up Muslims for Fajr Salah by performing Sada-e-Madinah. (In the Madani atmosphere of Dawat-e-Islami the term ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ refers to the act of waking Muslims up for Fajr Salah).

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. 2 Rak’at of Salah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah are better than offering 70 Rak’at without wearing an ‘Imamah.’

(Al-Firdaus bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 265, Hadees 3233)

2. Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘ Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues.’ (Al-Firdaus bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 406, Hadees 3805)

3. Tie the ‘Imamah whilst standing and facing the Qiblah.

(Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas lish-Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Dihlvi, pp. 38)

4. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like shape. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

5. If you have a large handkerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah.

6. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

7. It is more appropriate to wrap the first fold of the ‘Imamah towards the right side of the head. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 199)

8. If ‘Imamah is to be taken off out of some need and there is the intention of binding it again, then one sin will be erased on unwinding each fold . (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 214)

9. The length of the Shimlah of the ‘Imamah should be at least the width of four fingers, and at most up to the middle of the back, i.e. approximately the length of one arm.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of

Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

