Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Best example of the manners of the Beloved Rasool 5

Forgiveness for all on the occasion of conquest of Makkah . 9

Good manners . 15

Introduction to the book ‘Husn-e-Akhlaq’ (Islamic Manners) . 16

The one who oppressed the daughter was forgiven .. 17

Prayer of guidance for nation .. 18

Quarrelsome got reformed . 19

Harms of ill manners to one’s worldly life and afterlife . 20

How to improve your manners? . 21

Majlis Doctors . 23

Glimpses into the best morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool 23

Sunan and manners . 27

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 29

2. All sins forgiven .. 29

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 30

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 30

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 30

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 31

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 31

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 31

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Glimpses of the Blessed Manners of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites Salat upon me ten times in the morning and ten times in the evening will be granted my intercession on the Day of Judgement.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 312, Hadees 991)

شفاعت کرے حشر میں جو رضاؔ کی

سِوا تیرے کس کو یہ قُدرت مِلی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, in every matter, the blessed life-history of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a best example for a Muslim, and by following it properly, every Muslim can have success in the world and Hereafter. Therefore, today, we would have privilege to listen about the laudable morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out of his blessed biography. In whose dignity and exaltation, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself has stated in the Glorious Quran:

وَ اِنَّكَ لَعَلٰى خُلُقٍ عَظِیْمٍ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed you possess an exemplary character. (Part 29, Surah Al-Qalam, Ayah 4)

Illustrating the importance of his blessed character and the motive of his blessed arrival, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ بُعِثۡتُ لِاُتَمِّمَ مَكَارِمَ الۡاَخۡلَاق ’, i.e. I have been sent for the completion of good manners.

(Muwatta Imam Maalik, vol. 2, pp. 1107, Hadees 1723)

ترے خُلق کو حق نے عظیم کہا، تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہُوا ہے نہ ہوگا، شہا تِرے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Explanation of the couplet: O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ termed your blessed manners in Glorious Quran the exalted and sublime, and blessed your apparent appearance with incredible beauty. By Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Who adorned your blessed personality with excellent actions. By Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Neither there came anybody as supremely beautiful as you the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and nor could anyone be like you in future.

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 226)

Today let’s have the privilege to listen to some faith-refreshing extracts from the blessed morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so

that we also try to improve our manners. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه seeks help from the court of Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

مِرے اَخلاق اچھے ہوں مِرے سب کام اچھے ہوں

بنا دو مجھ کو تم پابندِ سُنّت یا رسولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Best example of the manners of the Beloved Rasool

Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Sa’nah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once bought some dates from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before he accepted Islam (he was a Jewish scholar at that time). There were still a few days left for it to be delivered to him when he came to Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and demanded him in a very angry and bitter tone. Staring at the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with contempt in his eyes and clutching his blessed clothes, Zayd Bin Sa’nah said: It’s become the trait of the family of ‘Abdul Muttalib to delay in fulfilling the rights of people!

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ witnessed this and became infuriated. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ glared at Zayd and shouted: O enemy of Allah! How dare you disrespect the Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this manner?! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, if the Rasool’s respect had not stopped me, I would’ve definitely cut off your head with my sword! Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Umar, what are you saying? You should have encouraged me to fulfil his right and taught him how to ask with kindness. By this, you could’ve helped us both.

Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then ordered him to give Zayd dates equivalent to his right and add a little extra. Zayd Bin Sa’nah asked: ‘Umar, why did you give me more than my rightful share?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered me to give you more to console your heart after I stared and terrified you. He asked Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ if he’d recognized that he was Zayd Bin Sa’nah, the noted scholar of the Jews, and

Sayyiduna Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: No. Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then asked him why he disrespected the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in such a manner, and he explained: ‘Umar, the truth is that I found all the qualities of the final Nabi in Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) mentioned in the Tawrah except for two which I still had to test. The first is that his patience will overcome ignorance and the second is that his patience will increase if he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is treated with additional ignorance. Through this plan of asking for the dates before time, I’ve now seen all the signs of the final Nabi in him and declare that indeed, he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is a true Nabi. O ‘Umar! I am a very rich man and be witness, I’ve given half of my wealth as charity for the Muslim Ummah. Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Sa’nah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then came to Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, read the Kalimah and embraced Islam.

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 793, Hadees 6606)

ترے اَخلاق پر قُرباں ترے اَوصاف پر واری

مسلماں کیا عَدُو بھی تیرا قائل یا رسولَ الله

Explanation of couplet: It means O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my life be sacrificed for your excellent attributes and sublime character that not only those who are familiar with you but also other unknown and unfamiliar people were truly inspired by your excellent attributes and sublime character.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard that how Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the paradigm of exalted morals and manners that no matter how much anybody would hurt him, show rudeness, treat him with disrespect, speak ill of his family; in short, if anyone would go to any extent, crossing all limits of bad manners but hats off to the possessor of the most exalted character that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, instead of being aggressive, always showed gentleness, tolerance and patience. Any single act of scolding, threatening, beating or staring angrily or any other act of any kind of bad-manner

towards any ill-mannered individual from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is beyond imagination rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم showed such an incredible mercy towards ill-mannered and rude people which enthralled them.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of his blessed morals and manners, countless non-Muslims embraced Islam and limitless number of people experienced Madani transformation in their lives. The fast growing light of Islam wiped out the darkness of ignorance and disgrace, and the blood thirsty came under the fold of Islam and became amongst the followers of the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

دَورِ جہالت تھا ہر سُو جب کُفر کی ظلمت چھائی تھی

تم نے حیوانوں جیسے لوگوں کو بھی اِنسان کیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Keeping the best morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in perspective, if we make self-assessment and accountability, and conclude that whether we have such spirit and enthusiasm of forgiving our enemies! Certainly, we ourselves expect others to forgive our blunders but on the other hand did we forgive the seeker of forgiveness over depriving us of our right? Did we ever accept the excuse of our Muslim brother by showing affection towards him and crushing our ego? Did we ever forgive anybody feeling remorse and earn reward as a return? Or being the puppet in the hands of Satan, م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, we have deprived our Muslim brother of his honour by swearing and making him feel ashamed.

Anyhow we all should take blessed life-history of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as our role model, and by following it practically and properly, we should strive to improve our manners. Encouraging people to improve their manners, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَحْسِنْ خُلُقَکَ ’ i.e., improve your manners . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 246, Hadees 8029)

Therefore, we should inculcate the excellent traits in ourselves such as patience, fortitude, tolerance, gentleness, forgiveness, modesty, respect for elders, affection towards younger ones and the sense of sympathy, sacrifice and serving all Muslims, and try to replace the chaos and unrest by peace and harmony gradually through good morals and manners. Our character should be exalted to such a level that people get close to Islam seeing our manners and etiquette and they have to ponder finally that if the manners of the bondsmen are excellent to such a great extent then how great will be the manners of their Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

کردو مالا مال آقا دولتِ اَخلاق سے

خُلق کی دولت سے یہ محروم و بدگُفتار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ adorned his blessed Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام with supreme attributes and sent them to all nations for their guidance, and gathered all the virtues of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام in the prominent personality of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and sent him in the world in the last, making him the most noble creation. One can determine the best manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through this thing that once Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came in the court of Sayyidah ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and asked about the morals and manners of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said [to him]: Do you not recite the Quran? He humbly said: Yes I do. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: The morals and manners of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are the Quran.

Describing the best morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in his Na’tiyah Deewan (collection of Na’ats) namely Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish:

ترے خُلق کو حق نے عظیم کہا، تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہُوا ہے نہ ہوگا، شہا تِرے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If anybody causes us any little trouble or shows bad manners, to which, we, instead of practicing excellent manners and forgiveness, become his enemy and using different tactics, try to take revenge. But hats off to the best morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he used to forgive his sworn enemies.

After the conquest of Makkah and the position of dominance of the Muslims, those wicked disbelievers caused appalling and severe hardship to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم were brought in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; if there had been any worldly king, he would have proposed any strict punishment but here is the king of heart, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, how he treated them, let’s listen to it and obtain Madani pearls out of it.

Forgiveness for all on the occasion of conquest of Makkah

If we analyse this event thoroughly, we will find that there were so many tyrants of the Quraysh present there who had frequently pelted stones at the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Among them were also those ferocious tyrants who had attempted to martyr the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم many times and those merciless and relentless oppressors were also present there who had martyred the blessed teeth and smeared the enlightened face of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with his holy blood. Those dissolute infidels were also there who had disheartened the Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through their slandering and abusive language. Also stood were those wild and diabolical characters that had choked the blessed throat of the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by tying it with a shawl. Among these people were also those embodiments of tyrannies who had struck the Princess of the

Beloved Rasool, Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا with spear, causing her to fall down from her camel and to suffer a miscarriage.

Those cruel and brutal habitants were also there due to whom, many aggressive attacks and oppressive raids had caused recurrent upheaval in the city of Madinah. Those ruthless tyrants were also present that had killed the beloved uncle of the Holy Rasool, Sayyiduna Hamzah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Those that had cut off his nose and ears, extracted his eyes and chewed his liver were also present. Those heartless and merciless people were there too who had tortured the self-devoted ardent followers of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Bilal, Sayyiduna Suhayb, Sayyiduna ‘Ammar, Sayyiduna Khabbaab, Sayyiduna Khubayb, Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Dasinnah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم by tying them with ropes, cracking them with whips, forcing them to lay on sweltering sand, some were made to lay on blazing coals and others were hung and martyred. Now all these violent oppressors were shame stricken and their inner-selves were shivering with the suspected outcome of their ill deeds. They were standing as criminals helplessly trembling in front of ten thousand Muhajireen and Ansaar. They were contemplating in their hearts that perhaps today they will be fed to dogs and their flesh will be fed to crows and kites. The furiously angry army of the Ansaar and Muhajireen will assassinate their children, destroy their belongings and ravage their dwellings and towns. However, the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم announced absolute and unconditional forgiveness .

After this, the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم conducted the first general congregation in the house of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that not only comprised of a great number of Muslim soldiers, but many prominent figures of infidels and pagans also attended it. In this gathering, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم delivered a sermon and then addressed the people of Makkah and said: Do you know how I am going to treat you today? Listening to this alarming and fearful question, all the unbelievers became confounded and began to tremble with fear. But after observing the prophetic gesture of the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they collectively said (اَخٌ كَرِيۡمٌ وَابۡنُ اَخٍ كَرِيۡمٍ), meaning, ‘ you are a kind brother and the son of a kind father ’.

The Conqueror of Makkah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم replied in his compassionate manner; ﴿ لَا تَثۡرِيۡبَ عَلَيۡكُمُ الۡيَوۡمَ فَاذۡهَبُوۡا اَنۡتُمُ الطُّلَقَاءُ ﴾ i.e. today there is no charge unto you all, go; you all are free .

(Sharh-uz-Zurqaani, vol. 3, pp. 449; Sunan Kubra, vol. 9, pp. 200, Hadees 18276)

Such an unexpected and sudden merciful reply caused the eyes of the criminals to well up with tears. The slogans of لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ released from the tongues of infidels that produced a spiritual cover all around the Ka’bah. Such an amazing revolution took place in the hearts of the unbelievers that the whole environment changed.

جہاں تاریک تھا، بے نُور تھا اور سخت کالا تھا

کوئی پردے سے کیا نکلا کہ گھر گھر میں اُجالا تھا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘ مَا انْتَقَمَ رَسُوْلُ اللَّهِ صَلَّى اللَّهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ لِنَفْسِهٖ فِي شَيْءٍ قَطُّ ’ i.e., Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never took revenge over anybody in any manner for his own sake. Therefore, on the occasion of conquest of Makkah, they mustered up courage thinking that if we beg him for mercy even today, he is merciful and kind, he will not disappoint us.

یہ سیدھا راستہ حق کا بتانے آئے ہیں یہ حق کے بندوں کو حق سے مِلانے آئے ہیں

یہ بھُولے بِچھڑوں کو رَستے پہ لانے آئے ہیں یہ بُھولے بھٹکوں کو ہادِی بنانے آئے ہیں

چمک سے اپنی جہاں جگمگانے آئے ہیں مہک سے اپنی یہ کُوچے بسان ے آئے ہیں

جو گِر رہے تھے اُنہیں نائ ب وں نے تھام لیا جو گِر چُکے ہیں یہ ان کو اُٹھانے آئے ہیں

رؤف ایسے ہیں اور یہ رحیم ہیں اِتنے کہ گِرتے پڑتوں کو سِینے ل گانے آئے ہیں

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Have you ever seen or heard of such a kind-hearted king and conqueror? Definitely your answer will be in negation. Because, the Honourable Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is incomparable, unique, and matchless in his every attribute. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, through his noble deeds and morals, has not only treated people gracefully but also kept urging his bondsmen to adopt good manners, and repeatedly describe its worldly and Hereafter benefits. Let’s listen to 7 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: You cannot please people with your wealth but your courtesy and smiling appearance can please them. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 8054, vol. 6, pp. 253)

2. Wherever you live, keep fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and do some deed after a sin because the virtuous deed will remove the sin. And treat people with good manners. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 397, Hadees 1994)

3. Do not regard any good deed as insignificant; even meeting your brother with a smiling face. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 2626)

4. There is nothing that weighs heavier on the scale of deeds than good manners on the Day of Judgement and undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like foul language and uttering obscenities.

5. Two attributes can never be found together in a hypocrite; good manners and understanding of religion. (Ibid, vol. 4, pp. 313, Hadees 2693)

6. In Iman, the perfect Mu`min (believer) is the one who is the best in manners.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 290, Hadees 4682)

1. On the Day of Judgement, those amongst you who would be dear and near to me in my company are the ones who have good manners and adopt humbleness. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 409, Hadees 2025)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: It has been experienced many times that people become friend of the well-mannered person. The people including family members and even the acquaintances dislike the ill-mannered person. The people including family members and even the acquaintances show respect to the well-mannered person and like to serve him too. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 167)

Therefore, if we want people to show affection towards us, listen to us with full attention and no one show aversion to us then we should treat every Muslim gracefully. Unfortunately, a great number of people fall prey to this evil. However people treat wealthy and educated people well but when there are the poor and uneducated and less literate individuals then people treat them very badly and even show rudeness and bad manners. In particular, they are not usually considerate towards their family members. Some people behave gracefully towards the acquaintances but as soon as they enter home, their behaviour is changed and they become aggressive and violent, keeping aside humbleness, meekness and courtesy. Despite the fact is that such rudeness is against the teachings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to behave the elders, younger ones, rich and poor and even slaves gracefully.

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to accept the invitation of his bondsmen even for the food consisting of barley bread and simple food. When the poor fall ill, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to visit them, give the poor and destitute his blessed company and sit amidst his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم . (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 607)

Sayyidah ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sometimes used to give a ride his attendant behind him.

Dear Islamic brothers! As the acquaintances used to have privilege to obtain the blessings of the best morals and manners of the Beloved and Blessed

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, family members also enjoyed the graceful conduct of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and the blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was unparalleled in terms of showing affection and graceful behaviour.

In response to a question, the mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself would mend his own blesse shoes, patch his own clothes and would do all those household chores that men do in their houses.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 519)

The above-mentioned narration contains Madani pearls for the husbands. Generally in home, husband has the temperament and tendency to rule and dominate his wife. As she is troubled even for a little job though husband can easily carry out many pieces of work but he assumes even moving his body slightly below his dignity and if even his wife carries out his piece of work for him, still, he complains and finds fault with that work and unnecessarily ask her again and again to do that piece of work for him for example if food is presented to him, he begins to pass comments over the excess of salt or the lacking of spices in foods. If everything is properly done then he begins to give his opinion on the taste of food and if everything is perfect then he finds excuses such as ‘ Why did you not cook that thing? ’, ‘ Why did you cook this? ’, ‘ I do not feel like to have it, take it away from here ’, ‘ Prepare such and such thing for me ’ etc. Similarly, even if clothes are ironed, still, he complains: ‘ Why did you iron this dress? I will not wear it. Iron such and such dress right now. ’ If water is served to him then he complains: ‘ I will not drink water in this glass, bring water in such and such glass water ’. If he is served accordingly then he complains: ‘ Why is it so cold or hot? ’ etc. Thus he makes his wife run around. However, if anything is occurred against one’s temperament, he can ask for his desirable thing gracefully without rebuke and reprimand, and he should adopt this graceful etiquette in everything.

If only we could learn something from the graceful conduct and actions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and attain success by following them practically, and try to be the helping hand of our family as much as possible

for the sake of maintaining a Madani environment full of sincerity and affection. Let’s listen to some more narrations containing the excellence of graceful manner:

1. The fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and good manners will make the most of the people enter Jannah.

Nothing better than good manners is bestowed upon man. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 235, Hadees 7992)

Undoubtedly, through good manners, a person is able to attain the rank of those offering Salah, observing Sawm during the day and worshipping at night.

اَخلاق ہوں اچّھے مِرا کِردار ہو سُتھرا

محبوب کا صَدقہ تُو مجھے نیک بنا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard about the excellence of good manners. Listening to them, we may have developed the mindset that we should also give up bad manners and adopt good ones. It is also important to know what good manners mean. Let’s learn what good manners are.

Good manners

A person once humbly asked the Beloved and Blessed Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about good manners, so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following Ayah:

خُذِ الْعَفْوَ وَ اْمُرْ بِالْعُرْفِ وَ اَعْرِضْ عَنِ الْجٰهِلِیْنَ(۱۹۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Beloved Rasool, adopt forgiveness, and command to do good, and turn away from the ignorant ones.

(Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 199)

Leader of believers, the Lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated: The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘Should I not guide you about the good manners of the people of the past and the future?’ I humbly replied, ‘O Rasoolallah! Do guide me about it.’ The Greatest and Noblest Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Bestow upon the one who deprives you; forgive the one who oppresses you and establish relations with the one who breaks off relations with you.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 222, Hadees 7956)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Meeting others warmly, benefitting them greatly and not causing trouble to anyone are among good manners. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 404, Hadees 2012)

ہو اَخلاق اچّھا ہو کِردار سُتھرا مُجھے مُتَّقِی تُو بنا یا الٰہی

Introduction to the book ‘Husn-e-Akhlaq’ (Islamic Manners)

Dear Islamic brothers! If you want to gain the blessings of the manners of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to adorn yourself with good manners, you should read the 76-page book ‘ Husn-e-Akhlaq ’ (Islamic Manners) published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. The original book was authored by Sayyiduna Imam Tabarani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Arabic under the title of ‘ مَکارِمُ الْاَخْلَاق ’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This book contains the excellence etc. of many acts of worship, good manners and good habits such as kindness, humility, forgiving others, performing good deeds and having affection for people for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, buy this book today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and read it. Motivate also others to buy and to read it. The Translation Majlis has also translated it into English and Hindi. It can be read at the website of Dawat-e-Islami, i.e. www.dawateislami.net and can also be downloaded from the same website. One can also print it out. In addition, reading the booklets ‘ Sweet Words ’ and ‘ Respect of Muslim ’ will also prove to be very beneficial, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The one who oppressed the daughter was forgiven

Sayyiduna Abul ‘Aas Bin Rabi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the husband of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا who was the daughter of Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . After the battle of Badr, Sayyiduna Abul ‘Aas Bin Rabi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sent Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to Madinah. When the Quraysh of Makkah became aware of it, they chased her and found her at the place called ‘ ذِیْ طُویٰ ’ [Zee-Tuwa]. Habbaar Bin Aswad threw his spear at her, causing her to fall from the camel and having miscarriage. (Seerat Nabawiyyah, pp. 270-271)

Sayyiduna Jubayr Bin Mut’im (جُبَیْر بن مُطْعِم رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) has stated: Having returned from the place called ‘Ji’irraanah’, we were sitting with the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم when Habbaar Bin Aswad (who had not yet accepted Islam) entered through the door of the Holy Nabi (and sat down). The Blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم humbly said: O Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Habbaar Bin Aswad (has come). He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I have seen him. A person stood up to attack him, but the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gestured for him to sit down. Standing up, Habbaar said: O Nabi of Allah! May peace be upon you! I testify that no one is worthy to be worshipped except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and I testify that Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is the Rasool of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . O Rasoolallah! I escaped from you and wandered in many cities. I had even intended to live in the countries of the non-Arabs but I thought that you are kind-hearted, treat relatives with kindness and forgive even those who mistreat you. O Nabi of Allah! We were polytheists. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed upon us guidance through you, protecting us from doom. I beg you to forgive my misdeed because I admit to have committed the evil and sin you have been informed about.

The Kind and Merciful Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I have forgiven you. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed His grace upon you by guiding you towards Islam. Islam removes all the previous sins.

سو بار تِرا دیکھ کے عفو اور تَرَحُّم ہر باغی و سرکش کا سر آخر کو جُھکا ہے

برتاؤ تیرے جبکہ یہ اَعدا سے ہیں اپنے اَعدا سے غُلاموں کو کچھ اُمّید سِوا ہے

ہم نیک ہیں یا بد ہیں پھر آخر ہیں تمہارے نسبت بہت اچھی ہے اگر حال بُرا ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard how forgiving and well-mannered our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is! Indeed he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has power and authority. If he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had wanted, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have cursed Habbaar Bin Aswad and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would have wiped him off the face of the earth. But he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not do so. Imagine! Everyone, whether ordinary or special, was impressed with the good manners, kindness and graciousness of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Why? Simply because he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been sent as mercy for all the worlds and has been blessed with extremely good manners. It is the court of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم where even bitter enemies are forgiven and are blessed with prayers despite their cruelty.

Prayer of guidance for nation

During the battle of Uhud, (some parts of) the blessed teeth of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were “martyred” and blessed face was wounded. Even at that time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم prayed for them in these words: ‘ اَللّٰھُمَّ اھْدِ قَوْمِیْ فَاِنَّھُمْ لَا یَعْلَمُوْنَ ’, i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bestow guidance upon my nation. They do not know me. (Ash-Shifa, vol. 1, pp. 105)

حق کی راہ میں پتھر کھائے خُوں میں نہائے طائف میں

دِین کا کتنی محنت سے کام آپ نے اے سُلطان کیا

جان کے دُشمن خون کے پیاسوں کو بھی شہرِ مکّہ میں

عام مُعافی تم نے عطا کی کتنا بڑا اِحسان کیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Despite being blessed with the great privilege of good manners, our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for good manners. Undoubtedly, it teaches us that we should also adopt good manners and pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to be blessed with good manners.

ہو اَخلاق اچّھا ہو کِردار سُتھرا مُجھے مُتَّقِی تُو بنا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s hear about a Madani parable of a devotee of Rasool who was associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Quarrelsome got reformed

Here is a summary of a piece of writing received from an Islamic brother from Wah Cantt (Taxila Punjab Pakistan). He has stated: I was a carefree and proud youth. Teasing others, mocking them, shouting at them and quarreling with my own family were some of the habits of mine. One day, my elder brother who was associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami motivated me to travel with a Madani Qafilah. Hence I travelled with a one-month Madani Qafilah along with the devotees of Rasool. By the blessing of the Madani Qafilah, I became eager to perform acts of worship and to follow Sunnah. I was particularly very much impressed with the good manners of Islamic brothers and I developed great liking and reverence for Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . One night, I went to sleep and saw Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه in my dream. He said: Son! We will meet tomorrow, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The next day, I was really blessed with meeting Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and kissing his hand. He said prayers for me. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I was blessed with sincere repentance from sins the same day and I joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

خُوب خُود داریاں اور خُوش اَخلاقیاں آئیے سیکھ لیں قافلے میں چلو

اچھی صُحبت مِلے خوب برکت مِلے چل پڑو چل پڑیں قافلے میں چلو

بے عمل با عمل بن گئے خاص کر آپ بھی دیکھ لیں قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Harms of ill manners to one’s worldly life and afterlife

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The fortunate Muslim blessed with the great wealth of good manners will succeed in the worldly life as well as in the afterlife, whereas the people who have the disease of bad manners will get nothing but shame and regret in both the worlds. Let’s now hear about some of the harms caused by bad manners to one’s worldly life as well as the afterlife.

Having bad manners is a curse.

Having bad manners is itself a bad deed and leads to many other bad deeds.

Lying, misappropriation, breaking promises are all the branches of bad manners.

Bad manners are a cause of disagreement among people.

Bad manners cause malice, jealousy and separation among people.

The Greatest and Noblest Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sought refuge from bad manners.

Bad manners and rude talking displease Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Bad manners spoil the deed as vinegar spoils honey.

Customers hesitate to buy things from a bad-mannered shopkeeper.

Bad manners are a bad omen.

If there were any human form of bad manners, they would be a very bad man.

In the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, bad manners are the worst evil.

Without doubt, shamelessness and bad manners have no link with anything in Islam.

Bad manners are a great obstruction in Islamic preaching.

Sometimes, bad manners bring the husband and the wife to the verge of divorce.

Bad manners destroy the peace of home.

Even if a bad-mannered person repents of a sin, he may indulge in even a more severe sin.

A bad-mannered person quite often fails.

In short, bad manners are the sources of countless evils and cause destruction in the worldly life and the afterlife. Therefore, not only should we protect ourselves from bad manners but also motivate others to avoid them. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless all Muslims with the great wealth of good manners!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

بھاگتے ہیں سُن لے بد اَخلاق انساں سے سبھی

مسکرا کر سب سے ملنا دل سے کرنا عاجزی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How to improve your manners?

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the harms caused by bad manners to one’s worldly life as well as afterlife. We may have felt hatred in our heart against bad manners and developed the mindset of repentance. Here, it is also equally important to know how to improve our manners and character. Improving one’s character is no doubt something difficult but it is not impossible. We should carry on our struggle for the improvement of our character. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant success. Let’s listen to 12 methods for the improvement of our character and make the intention of following them:

1. In order to improve your character and to get rid of bad manners, pray to the Almighty beseechingly with your hands raised and with tearful eyes.

Become the disciple of any perfect spiritual guide and follow in his footsteps. Your manners will be improved, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Read again and again those Ahadees, narrations, parables and sayings of pious predecessors which contain excellence of good manners and harms of bad manners.

2. Stay silent for most part of the day and make a habit of communicating with others by writing or gesture, as long as possible.

3. Make it a routine to recite the Holy Quran with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman along with commentary from Khaza`in-ul-Irfan or Noor-ul-‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan .

4. Always stay away from bad people.

5. Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take a very active part in the 12 Madani activities performed at Zayli Halqah level.

6. Regularly attend Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs which are full of knowledge and words of wisdom.

7. Along with the devotees of Rasool who are associated with Dawat-e-Islami, travel with a Madani Qafilah for 12 consecutive months, for one month (i.e. 30 days) within every 12 months and for 3 days every month throughout your life. Also fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily.

8. Attend the Fard ‘Uloom Course, character-reforming course, i.e. ‘12-day Madani Course’ and Madani Tarbiyyati Course offered by Dawat-e-Islami.

9. Continue to watch different programs broadcast on Madani Channel.

10. Dawat-e-Islami is running over 100 religious departments. Perform your services to any of them.

By the blessing of following these methods, you will get rid of bad manners and develop the mindset of improving your character.

تُو عطا حِلم کی بھیک کر دے میرے اَخلاق بھی ٹھیک کر دے

تجھ کو فاروق کا واسطہ ہے یاخُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

Majlis Doctors

Dawat-e-Islami is promoting the call to righteousness in 103 departments. ‘Majlis for Doctors’ is one of them. Usually, most of the doctors in the present age seem to be unaware of essential Islamic knowledge. Hence Dawat-e-Islami established a department for doctors so that they could be provided with Islamic knowledge. The establishment of this Majlis is aimed at providing doctors with essential Shar’i rulings, teaching them Sunnah and motivating them to spend their lives following the Madani aim, i.e. I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Those Islamic brothers related to this profession can contact the Nigran of their city Mushawarat, if they want to perform their services for this department. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow more success and blessings upon Dawat-e-Islami and Majlis doctors!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! There are countless Ahadees and parables about the good manners of the Greatest and Noblest Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One is amazed to listen to them. The ill-mannered and hot-tempered get rid of bad manners and are blessed with good manners such as politeness, forgiveness etc. The manners of well-mannered are further improved, refreshing their faith. Let’s hear about some more aspects of the manners of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that we also try to improve our characters by the blessings of the manners of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Glimpses into the best morals and manners of the Beloved Rasool

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always protected his blessed tongue and talked only when necessary.

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم treated the people affectionately coming to him. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never did anything that would cause hatred.

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always honoured the ‘respectable person’ of a nation and would appoint him as the chief of the nation.

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always advised people to fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always asked after the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always praised people’s positive talks & ideas and condemned anything that was evil and forbade people from acting upon it.

4. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم dealt with every matter moderately.

5. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was never neglectful of reform of people.

6. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always do the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

7. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went somewhere, he would sit wherever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم found place and also advised others to do the same.

8. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would fulfil the rights of the people who sat beside him.

9. Whoever was privileged to attend the blessed company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم felt that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved him the most.

10. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not end the conversation with any one until that person left himself.

11. Whenever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم shook hands with someone, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not withdraw his blessed hands first.

12. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always help the needy.

13. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم treated every one generously and politely.

14. His blessed gathering was the gathering of knowledge, tolerance, modesty, patience and trust.

15. His blessed gathering was very peaceful and nobody was disgraced.

16. If anyone made a mistake in the blessed gathering, it would not be made public. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 192-193, summarized)

17. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would pay complete attention while talking to someone. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 1430)

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not gaze at any one’s face. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 442)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was shyer than even a virgin girl. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 203)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always say Salam first. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 1430)

4. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say Salam to children as well.

5. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say ‘ لَبَّیْک ’ [I am here] when anyone called him. (Wasail-ul-Wusool, pp. 207)

6. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never stretched his blessed legs towards people in the gathering.

7. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم often sat facing the Qiblah .

8. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never took revenge against anyone due to any personal reason.

9. Instead of taking revenge, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always forgave those who distressed him. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 448, 449)

10. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never hit anyone, neither any slave nor any woman (i.e., blessed wife). (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 197)

11. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to speak gently. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 451) The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘On the Day of Judgement, the worst person amongst people in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is one whom people cut [ties] because of his bad language.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1398, Hadees 2591)

12. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would talk so gently that anyone could count the words he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spoke. (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 3567)

13. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was naturally very gentle and would remain delighted.

14. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would never scream.

15. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would never speak harshly.

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would never find fault with people.

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not a miser at all.

3. He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم particularly keeps himself away from three things: quarrelling, arrogance and involving himself in unnecessary activities.

4. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would never find faults with people.

5. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would only say the thing that was a means of reward [for him].

6. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have patience even with the harsh questions of traveller or stranger.

7. He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would never interrupt anyone’s conversation. If somebody went beyond the limit, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would forbid him or leave his place. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 199-200, summarized)

8. It was his great simplicity that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not fixed any specific place to sit. (Akhlaq-un-Nabi, pp. 15)

9. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would sometimes rest on a mat and sometimes on floor. (Wasail-ul-Wusool, pp. 189)

10. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would never laugh [so loudly that others if present could hear]. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 446)

11. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smile the most (on appropriate occasions). (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 453)

12. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Haaris رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated that he had not seen anyone smile more than the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 136)

یا الٰہی! جب بہیں آنکھیں حسابِ جُرم میں

اُن تبسّم ریز ہونٹوں کی دُعا کا ساتھ ہو

Explanation of the couplet: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! On the Day of Judgement when our eyes are in tears upon our wrongdoings, grant us (the sinners) the Sadaqah of the blessed Du’a of Your Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners

Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of wearing ‘Imamah, taken from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’ by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi:

First 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 31, Hadees 3621)

One Salat-ul-Jumu’ah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 70 without it. (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 37, pp. 355)

1. Bind the ‘Imamah whilst standing facing the Qiblah.

(Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 38)

2. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

3. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the who l e head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

