Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Repentance of the one busy with amusements . 4

Repentance of Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad . 8

Repentance of sitar-playing girl 9

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan .. 11

Introduction to booklet, ‘Excellence of Reciting the Holy Quran’ 12

Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah . 13

Boss of famous band repents (Madani parable) . 14

Introduction to Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah . 14

Unending treasure of branches of knowledge . 15

Narrations consisting of virtues of Sadaqah . 17

Brief introduction to Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah . 18

Month of Madani In’amaat 20

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 21

2. All sins forgiven .. 21

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 22

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 22

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 22

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 23

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 23

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 23

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Quran is the Book of Guidance

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recited the Holy Quran, glorified Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Repentance of the one busy with amusements

Abu Haashim Sufi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I intended to go to Basra and moved forward to get on a boat. A man with his maidservant was sitting in the boat. He said to me: There is no space in the boat. The maidservant interceded with him on my behalf so he allowed me to get on the boat. When we moved forward a bit, the man ordered for food. The food was brought and he placed it in front of himself. The maidservant asked him: Invite this poor fellow to have a meal as well. He also invited me for the meal. After we had finished the meal he said to his maidservant: Bring the wine. When she brought the wine he started drinking it. He asked the maidservant to also give me the wine, but I refused to drink it. When the person became intoxicated he asked the maidservant: Bring your musical instrument. The maidservant took hold of the musical instrument and started singing a song. The person then got his attention towards me and said: Do you have anything like this [song]? I replied: Yes, I have such a thing which is much better than this. He said: Read. I recited the first three Ayahs of Surah At-Takweer, part 30 after reciting ‘ اَعُوْذُ بِاللہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْم ’:

اِذَا الشَّمْسُ كُوِّرَتْﭪ(۱) وَ اِذَا النُّجُوْمُ انْكَدَرَتْﭪ(۲) وَ اِذَا الْجِبَالُ سُیِّرَتْﭪ(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When the sunshine is rolled up. And when the stars shall fall. And when the mountains are moved (crushed into very minute pieces).

After listening to these Ayahs that person started weeping. When I started reciting this commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ‘ وَ اِذَا الصُّحُفُ نُشِرَتْﭪ(۱۰) ’ (and when the balance sheets of deeds are opened) he started saying, ‘O maidservant! I free you for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Have this wine wasted and break the musical instrument.’ He then called me closer and started saying, ‘O my brother! What do you say? Will Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept my repentance?’ I recited the following Ayah (Ayah 222 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2) in reply:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ یُحِبُّ التَّوَّابِیْنَ وَ یُحِبُّ الْمُتَطَهِّرِیْنَ(۲۲۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah loves those who repent abundantly, and loves those who purify themselves.

(Having listened to it he repented of his sins.) (Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 216-217)

رہوں مست و بے خود میں تیری وِلا میں پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یا الٰہی

بنا دے مجھے نیک نیکوں کا صدقہ گناہوں سے ہر دم بچا یا الٰہی

عبادت میں گزرے مری زندگانی کرم ہو کرم یا خدا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed, how great and unique is the Holy Quran, which is full of guidance! When the person who was intoxicated with the colourfulness of the world, had love for song and music, had the habit of drinking wine and committing sins abundantly listened to the blessed Ayah of the Holy book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, consisting of the thought of the Hereafter, it pierced his heart. A real Madani revolution took place in his life and he repented of his sins. Undoubtedly it is the blessing of the holy book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that hearts throb and tears stream from the eyes when its recitation is listened to. Why shouldn’t it happen as it is the beautiful and truthful book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the One Who revealed it is Rab-ul-‘Aalameen and the one who brought it is Ruh-ul-Ameen, that is, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and the one to whom it was revealed is Rahmat-ul-Lil-‘Aalameen صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the Ummah for which it has been revealed is the best of all Ummahs, the language in which it has been revealed is eloquent Arabic, the month in which it was revealed is the most esteemed month of all months and the night when it was revealed is the most superior and the places where it was revealed are the most exalted ones.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Holy Quran is the Divine revelation, the source of attaining closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the summary of all the holy books, the fountain of all branches of knowledge, the collection of guidance and a treasury of mercy and blessings. It is the Noor [luminosity] which dispels all the darkness of misguidance. It is the system of reformation and upbringing which makes a person ideal after purifying his inside and the outside. It is the faithful companion which also helps in the grave and will also help on the Judgement Day. It contains cure for the sick hearts. The one who holds fast to it will be guided; the one who acts upon it will succeed in the world and the Hereafter. Let’s listen to its virtues and glory in its own words. It is stated in Ayah 9 of Surah Bani Israel, part 15:

اِنَّ هٰذَا الْقُرْاٰنَ یَهْدِیْ لِلَّتِیْ هِیَ اَقْوَمُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed this Quran shows that path the most Straight.

It is stated in Ayah 89 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14:

وَ نَزَّلْنَا عَلَیْكَ الْكِتٰبَ تِبْیَانًا لِّكُلِّ شَیْءٍ وَّ هُدًى وَّ رَحْمَةً وَّ بُشْرٰى لِلْمُسْلِمِیْنَ۠(۸۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We have sent down this Quran upon you which is a clear explanation of all things, and a guidance and a mercy and glad tidings to the Muslims.

It is stated in Ayah 138 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

هٰذَا بَیَانٌ لِّلنَّاسِ وَ هُدًى وَّ مَوْعِظَةٌ لِّلْمُتَّقِیْنَ(۱۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: This is declaration for the people, and a guidance and a counsel for the pious.

Regarding the last blessed Ayah, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The ordinary blessing of the Holy Quran is for ordinary people, that is, the clear mention of everything, but special blessing is for special people, that is, to guide [them] to the right path. (He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that) the Holy Quran is guidance for us, not for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had already been taught and advised everything and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had already been guided. (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 4, pp. 200)

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to the luminous blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran every wise person can understand it better that in reality ‘Quran is the book of guidance’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the way we have got the clear proof of this fact from the Ayahs of the Holy Quran, similarly we also get this fragrant Madani pearl in the light of blessed Ahadees that ‘Quran is the book of guidance’. Let’s listen to a blessed Hadees for attaining blessings.

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Soon a conflict will arise. I humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What will be the way to stay safe from it? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: The book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which contains the news of your future and past generations and the decisions of your mutual dealings. Quran is decision-making and it is not a joke. The cruel person who leaves it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will destroy him and the one who seeks guidance apart from it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will misguide him; it is the strong rope of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His wise remembrance. It is the straight path. Quran is the book by virtue of which blessings, desires do not get spoilt, other languages together cannot make it doubtful, from which Islamic scholars are not negligent, which do not get old if recited again and again, whose wonders do not come to an end. Quran is the book that when jinns heard they could not help saying that we have heard the strange Quran which guides towards goodness so we have placed our faith in it. The one who accepts Quran is truthful; the one who acts upon it will get reward; the one who makes decision in accordance with it will be the one who does justice and the one who calls towards it so definitely he has called towards the straight path.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 414, Hadees 2915)

اِلٰہی خوب دیدے شوق قرآں کی تلاوت کا

شَرَف دے گنبدِ خضرٰی کے سائے میں شہادت کا

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard! The Holy Quran is full of countless virtues and a complete code of life. Surely it is the blessing of the Quran which is guiding us even today in a way that not only Muslims, but also non-Muslims are accepting its truthfulness and everyone is busy pondering over it from their own perspective. Quran is the book of guidance and its clear evidence is that when the Tajalliyat (light of guidance) of this unique book fell on the society, darkness turned to brightness and its luminosity of guidance spread everywhere. When the people who were busy committing sins listened to the blessed Ayahs [consisting of guidance], their hearts illuminated by the luminosity of Quran, fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ developed in their hearts and they not only themselves repented of their sins and started offering Salah and following Sunnah, but they also became the leaders of Muslims and guided the misled people towards the right path. Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing parables in this regard.

Repentance of Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad

On page 17 of ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat (part 2) a 413-page book, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is stated that before repenting Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad [ فُضَیل بن عِیَاض رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] was such a dangerous dacoit that he would rob the whole caravan alone. Once a caravan passed by his area, it was a nightfall and they had to stay there. When he reached near the caravan with the intention to rob them, he heard some members of the caravan saying: Do not go towards this colony, but rather take any other route. Here a dangerous robber named Fudayl lives. When he heard the voice of the people of caravan, he trembled with fear and said loudly: O people! I am Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad, present in front of you. Pass through this area without any fear of danger; you are safe from me. I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! From today onwards I will never disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Having said this he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left and repented of all his past sins and started following the right path.

It is also stated that on that night he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه invited the members of the caravan and said: You feel safe from Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then went to get the food for their animals. Upon his return he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard someone reciting the blessed Ayah of the Holy Quran:

اَلَمْ یَاْنِ لِلَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَنْ تَخْشَعَ قُلُوْبُهُمْ لِذِكْرِ اللّٰهِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Has not the time come for the believers to surrender their hearts to Allah’s remembrance. (Part 27, Surah Al-Hadeed, Ayah 16)

This blessed Ayah of the Holy Quran pierced his heart. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started weeping bitterly and said putting dust on his clothes: Yes! Why not! I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Now the time has come; now the time has come. In the same way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept weeping and then repented of his all past sins. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 2, pp. 17)

بڑی کوششیں کی گُنہ چھوڑنے کی رہے آہ! ناکام ہم یا اِلٰہی

مجھے سچی توبہ کی توفیق دیدے پئے تاجدارِ حرم یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Repentance of sitar-playing girl

Sayyiduna Saalih Murri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: A sitar-playing girl (one who plays a stringed musical instrument) passed by a reciter of the Blessed Quran who was reciting the following blessed Ayah (of Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, part 21):

وَ اِنَّ جَهَنَّمَ لَمُحِیْطَةٌۢ بِالْكٰفِرِیْنَ(۴۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed Hell surrounds the disbelievers.

(Part 21, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 54)

Having listened to the blessed Ayah, she threw the sitar (musical instrument), screamed loudly, fell unconscious and collapsed. Upon regaining her senses, she broke the sitar (musical instrument) and deeply engaged herself in worship and spiritual exercises to such an extent that she became popular as a girl who was pious and ascetic. One day I said to her, ‘Be gentle with yourself’. Listening to this she wept and said, ‘I wish I could know how the dwellers of Hell would come out of their graves, how they would cross the Siraat bridge, how they would attain salvation from the horrors of the Judgement Day, how they would take the draught of boiling water and how they would bear the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Saying this she again fell unconscious and collapsed. Upon regaining her senses, she implored Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ like this: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I disobeyed You in my youth, and now obeying You in this state of weakness; will You accept my worship?’ She then heaved a sigh and said, ‘Alas! The faults of many people will be disclosed on the Day of Judgement’. She then gave a piercing scream and burst into tears in such a painful way that all the people who were present there fell unconscious. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 148)

تیرے ڈَر سے سدا تھر تھراؤں خوف سے تیرے آنسو بہاؤں

کیف ایسا دے، ایسی ادا کی میرے مولٰی تُو خیرات دیدے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how effective the Holy Quran is that the heart of people get trembled, they feel frightened and are blessed with the thought of the Hereafter when they listen to its recitation. Even extreme sinful people are also privileged to repent of their sins sincerely when they listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran.

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Not only one gets countless benefits by virtue of the blessing of being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, he also makes his mind to take active part in 12 Madani activities. One daily Madani activity out of twelve Madani activities is Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult in which free education of reciting Holy Quran is provided. It is of great excellence to learn and teach the Holy Quran. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ ‘The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran, and teaches it to others.’

(Sahih Bukhari, Fadaail-ul-Quran, Hadees 5027)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Keeping in mind the importance and the need of learning and teaching the Glorious Quran and for propagating the teachings of the Glorious Quran, Madaris-ul-Madinah [for adult Islamic brothers] are arranged under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, after ‘Isha Salah at different Masajid, markets, bazars, factories, etc., keeping in view their convenience. Thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah [for Islamic sisters] are also arranged in different timings at different venues. Islamic brothers teach Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters. They learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation of the letters along with memorizing different Du’as, learning rulings on Salah and learning Sunnah free of charge. We must attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults for the betterment of the world and the Hereafter both. If we know how to recite the Holy Quran in a correct way, so we should start teaching it to others for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and gaining reward, but if we do not know how to teach it, then we should start learning it.

یہی ہے آرزو تعلیمِ قرآں عام ہو جائے

تِلاوت کرنا میرا کام صبح و شام ہو جائے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to booklet, ‘Excellence of Reciting the Holy Quran’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop yearning for reciting the Holy Quran and to attain the blessing of Quran, study the published booklet of Maktaba-tul-Madinah namely ‘ Tilawat ki Fazeelat ’ [Excellence of Reciting the Holy Quran]. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this booklet the virtues of reciting the Holy Quran and learning and teaching the Holy Quran, 21 Madani pearls of reciting the Holy Quran, 14 Madani pearls of Sajdah Tilawat, 9 Madani pearls of touching the Holy Quran and many other interesting Madani pearls have been mentioned. Therefore, buy this booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Read it yourself and also persuade others to do so. It can be read, downloaded, and can also be printed free of cost from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

Just ponder when upon listening to the Holy Quran such blessings are attained as big criminals start following the right path and become obedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so how great blessings will the fortunate Muslim attain, who recites this Holy Book along with acting upon its commandments.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is the great saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the great revolutionary leader and the well-wisher of Muslim Ummah who not only acts upon the Holy Quran but also has great devotion towards it. His writings, Sunnah-inspiring speeches, Madani Muzakarahs, audio and video messages, etc., are its clear evidence. He is busy day and night making other Muslims righteous, Salah-offering, follower of the Holy Quran and having a yearning towards the recitation of the Holy Quran. He persuades Islamic brothers to recite the Holy Quran and read its translation and commentary for pondering over it through Madani In’amaat.

It is stated in Madani In’aam no. 3: Today, did you recite Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after offering five-time Salah and before going to sleep? Further, did you recite or listen to Surah Al-Mulk at night?

Whereas it is stated in Madani In’aam no. 21: Today, did you recite or listen to at least three Ayahs of the Holy Quran from Kanz-ul-Iman (with their translation and commentary)?

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us to spend our life as per Madani In’amaat!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

میں بن جاؤں سراپا ’’مدنی انعامات‘‘ کی تصویر

بنوں گا نیک یا الله اگر رحمت تِری ہوگی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami the mind-set is developed to recite the Holy Quran. Therefore, get yourself associated with this Madani environment in order to attain steadfastness in reciting the Holy Quran and actively take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Remember! One of the 12 Madani activities is to attend the Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Madani Halqah consists of reciting 3 Quranic Ayahs with their translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and the Tafseer from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, Noor-ul-‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan . Also, Dars is delivered from Faizan-e-Sunnat. Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Attariyyah is also recited. Afterwards, Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht are offered. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, reciting the Holy Quran early in the morning is a great act of reward.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Who amongst you likes to go to the valleys of Buthaan [ بُطحان ] or ‘Aqeeq [ عقیق ] daily in the morning and return with two (female) camels of big humps without committing any sin and breaking off any relation? So we humbly replied: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Every one of us likes it. It was said: So why don’t anyone amongst you go to the Masjid in the morning and learn or recite two Ayahs of the book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as it is better for you than two (female) camels and three Ayahs are better for you than three (female) camels and four Ayahs are better than four (female) camels and the more Ayahs you learn or recite are better than the more (female) camels. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 313, Hadees 1873)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami has made such a progress by virtue of the blessings of Madani activities and the blessings of Quran that thousands of people are associating themselves with its Madani environment day by day and a Madani revolution has taken place in their lives. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

Boss of famous band repents (Madani parable)

In Mandsaur (M.P. India) there was a very famous band a young man used to run. As a result of the individual effort of an Islamic brother, that young man did I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1426 AH in the company of devotees of Rasool. During I’tikaf he heard about the harms of sins, which softened his heart. The company of devotees of Rasool affected him so much that he repented of his sins. He made the intention of growing a beard and travelling with a Madani Qafilah for 30 days in the company of devotees of Rasool. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He has given up his sinful and Haraam profession of playing music.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam approximately in 103 departments. ‘Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ is one of them which has undertaken to accomplish a job of scholarly, researched-based and publishing work with the passion for the reformation of Muslim Ummah. It has 16 departments in which the work of writing books and booklets is going on in different ways. For instance, conveying the important information of Quran and Hadees to people, presenting the easy Urdu translation of pious predecessors’ Arabic books for the ease and benefits of people, solving the problems of the text books for the students of Dars-e-Nizami, writing books

and booklets on the blessed life of blessed companions, Ahl-e-Bayt and pious saints, publishing the books of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه after making them as easy as possible according to the demand of the present age are amongst the achievements of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’s written work.

Appreciating these efforts of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه once said, ‘Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah is my beneficent Majlis. It is a fact that Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah is running Dawat-e-Islami. It was very difficult to prepare a Bayan [speech] in the beginning; I have its experience. Now Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah has given lots of stuff to preachers in its books. You are also requested to make an intention to read all the books of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.’

In addition, Islamic scholars and blessed Muftis who come from home and abroad from time to time also feel pleased with the written work of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah and bless them with lots of Du’as. Therefore, we should also associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to attain lots of the blessings of Quran and worldly blessings.

Unending treasure of branches of knowledge

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely reciting the Holy Quran, listening to it and acting upon it bring about blessing and goodness and salvation in the Hereafter. But unfortunately nowadays Muslims have no time to recite it, understand it and act upon it. Some people are privileged to do it only in the sacred month of Ramadan and some people get deprived of its recitation even in the sacred month of Ramadan, or rather they remain deprived of seeing it because now in order to pass time in the sacred month of Ramadan we waste our precious time in hotels, useless gatherings, parks, co-entertainment places, reading newspapers, watching films, dramas or musical programs, discussing and listening the conditions of the country or politics and commentary on matches, playing games on mobile phones, computers and sinful usage of social media.

If we get into a routine of reciting at least one part of the Holy Quran every day instead of wasting our precious time in these useless activities, so

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of its blessing a large number of good deeds will be recorded in our book of deeds. Further, if we get into a routine of reciting 3 Ayahs with their translation and commentary every day, we will get a wealth of information by virtue of its blessing because the Holy Quran contains the rulings on Halal and Haraam, sayings of admonition and advice, events and circumstances of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and previous Ummahs, the conditions of Paradise and Hell and many other branches of knowledge which cannot come to an end even until the Judgement Day.

It is stated in the book ‘ Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran ’ [Quranic Wonders] a 462-page book, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Although the Holy Quran is apparently a collection of thirty parts, its internal is such a treasure of millions, or rather billions of branches of knowledge which can never come to an end. Following is a famous couplet of an eminent Sufi:

جَمِيۡعُ الۡعِلۡمِ فِي الۡقُرۡاٰنِ لٰكِنۡ تَقَاصَرَ عَنۡهُ اَفۡهَامُ الرِّجَالِ

i.e. all branches of knowledge are present in the Holy Quran, but people’s intellect is not capable enough to understand them.

The information in the Holy Quran is not limited only to the branches of knowledge, but reality is that it contains details of the whole universe and of each and every thing in the whole universe. That is to say, each and every star of the sky, each and every drop of the ocean, each and every particle of the earth, each and every particle of deserts, each and every leaf of trees, each and every corner/end of ‘Arsh and Kursi, each and every corner of the universe, each and every event of the past, each and every matter of the present, and each and every accident of the future have been explained with extreme clarity and detail in the Holy Quran. Therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

مَا فَرَّطْنَا فِی الْكِتٰبِ مِنْ شَیْءٍ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have left out nothing in this Book.

(Part 7, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 38)

Holy Quran is the treasure of branches of knowledge that can never end, but rather the Islamic scholars will always continue to extract pearls of strange topics from this very huge ocean and hundreds of thousands of books will continue to be written until the Judgement Day. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 419, 420)

ہر روز میں قرآن پڑھوں کاش! خدایا

الله! تِلاوت میں مِرے دِل کو لگا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Narrations consisting of virtues of Sadaqah

The persuasions and excellences of giving Sadaqah have also been mentioned at many places in the blessed Ahadees as well. To motivate us, let’s listen to 5 blessed Ahadees:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: O son of Aadam! Deposit something to me out of your treasure, it will neither burn, sink, nor be stolen. I will give you a full return at that time when you will be very needy of it. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 211, Hadees 3342)

بَاكِرُوۡا بِالصَّدَقَةِ فَاِنَّ الۡبَلآءَ لَا يَتَخَطَّي الصَّدَقَةَ: Give Sadaqah in the early morning because calamity does not get ahead of Sadaqah. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 214, Hadees 3353)

اِنَّ صَدَقَةَ الۡمُسۡلِمِ تَزِيۡدُ فِي الۡعُمۡرِ وَ تَمۡنَعُ مِيۡتَةَ السُّوۡءِ وَ يُذۡهِبُ اللّٰهُ الۡكِبۡرَ وَالۡفَخۡرَ: Indeed, the Sadaqah of a Muslim increases his life and rids him of a bad death and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (through its blessings) removes arrogance and boasting (a bad habit of talking proudly about your own abilities and of feeling pride). (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 284, Hadees 4609)

اِنَّ الصَّدَقَةَ لَتُطۡفِئُ عَنۡ اَهۡلِهَا حَرَّ الۡقُبُوۡرِ وَ اِنَّمَا يَسۡتَظِلُّ الۡمُؤۡمِنُ يَوۡمَ الۡقِيَامَةِ فِيۡ ظِلِّ صَدَقَتِهٖ: Certainly, Sadaqah protects the giver of Sadaqah from the heat of the

grave and certainly a Muslim will be under the shadow of his Sadaqah on the Day of Resurrection. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 212, Hadees 3347)

اِنَّهَا حِجَابٌ مِّنَ النَّارِ لِمَنِ احۡتَسَبَهَا يَبۡتَغِيۡ بِهَا وَجۡهَ اللّٰهِ: One who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that Sadaqah becomes a shield for him against Hell. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 286, Hadees 4617)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sadaqah prevents disasters and afflictions; it increases one’s life; it removes a bad death; Sadaqah removes arrogance and pride; it removes the heat of the grave; Sadaqah will be a shadow on the Day of Judgement and it will save us from the torment of Hell.

دے نَزع و قبر و حشر میں ہر جا اَمان اور

دوزخ کی آگ سے بچا یا ربِّ مُصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Brief introduction to Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the ‘Asharah Maghfirat [from 11 th Ramadan to 20 th Ramadan are the days of forgiveness] is in progress and on the 17 th of this ‘Asharah, Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away. Let’s listen to her brief introduction.

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the daughter of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . She was born in the fourth year of the announcement of Nubuwwah. Her mother’s name is ‘Umm-e-Rooman’. Her Nikah was performed with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before the migration in Makkah Mukarramah, but she came to the blessed home of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Madinah Munawwarah on 2 nd Shawwal. She is the much-loved and the most beloved wife of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Faizan ‘Aaishah Siddiqah, pp. 15)

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is Siddiqah [truthful], Tayyibah [pure], Taahirah [pure], Zahidah [abstinent] and ‘Aabidah [pious]. She used to offer Tahajjud Salah, observe Sawm regularly, give Sadaqah and charity and make sacrifices. Once Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave Sadaqah of 70,000 dinars in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, though there was a stitch in the blessed Daaman [the lower part of a Kurta, shirt etc.] of her Qamees. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 473)

Ummah has been blessed with the facility of Tayammum for her sake. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away on her blessed lap and the luminous Raudah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is her blessed Hujrah. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was eighteen at the time of the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the best Islamic jurisprudent, female Islamic scholar, Muhaddisah, female commentator, Muftiyah and the one whose opinion used to be authentic and reliable.

In 57 or 58 Hijri, on 17 th Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, Tuesday night, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led her funeral Salah and she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was buried in Jannat-ul-Baqi’.

کیوں نہ ہو رُتبہ تمہارا اہلِ ایماں میں بڑا

سب تو ہیں مومن مگر ہیں آپ اُمُّ المُومنین

آپ کا علم و فِقہ تحقیقِ قرآن و حدیث

دیکھ کر حیراں ہیں سارے صحابہ تابعین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

For further information about her blessed life study the 608-page book, namely ‘ Faizan ‘Aaishah Siddiqah ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Buy this book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself and also persuade other Islamic brothers, in particular, the Islamic sisters of your

family to study it. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Month of Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the month of Madani In’amaat is celebrated in the sacred month of Ramadan. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: (From 29 th Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 1438 AH to the sacred month of Ramadan) the month of Madani In’amaat will be celebrated. You also make intention to celebrate the month of Madani In’amaat and buy 12 booklets of Madani In’amaat for 12 months, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Submit the booklet of Madani In’amaat to the responsible Islamic brother of your area on the 1 st of every Madani month after filling it out.

Du’a of Attar

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Whoever acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills out the booklet daily by observing Fikr-e-Madinah and submits it to the responsible Islamic brother of his area on the 1 st of every Madani month, do not let him die until he recites the Kalimah.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

