اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Farooq-e-A’zam’s Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: حَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَيَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَكُمْ تَبْلُغُنِيْ i.e. Wherever you may reside, recite Salat ‘upon me, because your [recitation of] Salat reaches me.’ (Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Raqm. 2729)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and attain reward, let’s first make good intentions. The Beloved Rasool

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for any good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes, the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1- Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2- Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for the religious knowledge.

3- When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and heartening the ones who utter it.

4- After the Bayan, I will approach other people myself by making Salaam, shaking hands, and making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! All blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم hold a unique and matchless status . All of them are the stars of guidance and beloveds of Allah Almighty and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, some of them have superiority over the others. The Khulafa e Rashideen [four Rightly Guided Caliphs] are superior to all other companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . The second خلیفۂ راشد (Rightly -guided) caliph among these caliphs is Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced martyrdom on 1 st Muharram-ul-Haraam. In this relation, let’s be privileged to listen to one of the bright aspects of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq’s life, ‘Devotion towards the Holy Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)’.

Farooq-e-A’zam gladdened the blessed heart of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was once very sad and grieved, present in his blessed home. I came to his slave and said ‘seek permission from the Holy

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for my entry’. The slave came back and said, ‘I have mentioned you in the blessed court of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ A little while later, I once again said, ‘seek permission from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for me.’ He went in and returned, saying, ‘I have mentioned you to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ When I returned without saying anything, the slave called me, saying, ‘Please come inside. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given you permission.’

Therefore, I went inside and presented [the greetings of] Salam to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting on a mat in a leaning position. Marks of the mat were clearly visible on his blessed side. In order to please him, I said while standing, ‘ اَسۡتَاۡنِسُ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه ’ ‘ Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I want to talk to you and cheer you up. When we, the people of Quraysh, used to be in Makkah e Mukarramah, we used to have power over our women, but when we arrived in Madinah e Munawwarah, we faced such nation that the men (here) are overpowered by women.’ Listening to this, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled. I humbly said,

‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I went to Hafsah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and said to her, ‘Do not envy your companion (Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), for she is more beautiful than you and beloved to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Listening to this, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled again. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-un-Nikah, vol. 3, pp. 460, Hadees 5191)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ponder over this parable that Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ could not tolerate Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم falling into any kind of grief or sadness. That’s why, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ intended to cheer him up and eventually succeeded in his purpose too and the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled at his efforts. Think seriously! On one hand, we observe the state of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who become sad when they find the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grieved and would try to please him in many ways, and on the other hand is our miserable state that we hurt the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by spending our days and nights in committing sins but we do not even realise this at all.

Remember! Undoubtedly, even today Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes the entire situation and deeds of the people of his Ummah. Therefore, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘My life is better for you, you talk to me

and I talk to you; and my (apparent) demise is also better for you. Your deeds will be presented to me, when I will see good deeds, I will praise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and when I will see bad deeds, I will ask forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for you.’

(Al-Musnad-ul-Bazzaar, Hadees 1925)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of every Ummati and every action of his. The blessed eyes of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can view everything whether in dark, brightness, hidden, apparent, existing or extinct. The one whose eyes have been referred to as ‘ البَصَر مَازَاغ ’ in the Holy Quran, the power of his sight is beyond our imagination. We see everything in our imagination and dream, and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes everything with his blessed eyes. Sufia [Mystics] (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) say: Here, actions refer to the actions of heart as well. Therefore, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of every state of our hearts. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol.1, pp. 439)

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of all the actions of his Ummatis. So he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also be getting pleased upon looking at our virtuous deeds and saddened upon looking at our evil actions. Therefore, in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we should carry out more and more virtuous deeds, recite Salat and Salam abundantly upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, act upon the Sunnahs of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and also teach them to others so that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could be pleased with us and intercede for the sinful Ummatis on the Day of Judgement and also take us into Paradise along with him.

یا الٰہی جب پڑے محشر میں شورِ دارو گیر امن دینے والے پیارے پیشوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی جب زبانیں باہر آئیں پیاس سے صاحبِ کوثر شہِ جود و عطا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی سرد مِہری پر ہو جب خورشیدِ حشر سیّدِ بے سایہ کے ظِلّ لِوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی گرمِیِ محشر سے جب بھڑکیں بدن دامنِ محبوب کی ٹھنڈی ہوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی نامۂ اعمال جب کُھلنے لگیں عیب پوشِ خلق ستّارِ خطا کا ساتھ ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

The second caliph, successor of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Umar’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ Kunyah is ‘Abu Hafs’ and his title is ‘Farooq-e-A’zam’. According to one narration, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the 40 th person to embrace Islam in the sixth year of the proclamation of Prophet hood due to the Du’a of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That’s why, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is referred to as مُتَمِّمُ الْاَربَعِین, i.e. “one completing the count of 40”. By his acceptance of Islam, Muslims became extremely happy and they received such a great support that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah openly with Muslims inside the sacred Haram. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ participated in Islamic wars with great bravery and contributed in all strategic decisions headed by the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as a faithful minister, advisor and a loyal devotee. The first caliph, Ameer ul Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ chose Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as the caliph after him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ executed all the responsibilities of caliphate marvellously and proved to be a deserving successor of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Finally, one accursed person attacked Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with a dagger during Salat-ul-Fajr. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was fatally injured and embraced martyrdom on the third day of the attack. At the time of his blessed demise, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was 63 years old.

Sayyiduna Suhayb رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led his funeral Salah and this illustrious companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ of the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was laid to rest beside Ameer ul Mu’mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who is resting beside the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the blessed Raudah. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah fi Manaqib Al-Asharah, vol. 1, pp. 285, 408, 418)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ shower mercy upon him and forgive us without accountability for his sake!

شہادت اے خدا عطا ر کو دیدے مدینے میں

کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is natural for one to have love towards his parents, siblings, children, wealth and property. If any person doesn’t care about any of his relatives or family members and stops loving them, then it would still not damage his Iman and his Iman will still remain intact because Iman does not entail their love and believing in them. Whereas, embracing faith upon the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, honouring him and having [devotional] love for him is ‘ جُزۡوِ لَا يَنۡفَك ’ i.e., the basic necessity of Iman . Therefore, it is essential for a true believer to have devotion towards the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than every relation and everything of this universe.

Dearer than everything

It is stated in Hadees No. 6632 of Sahih Bukhari: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: We were sitting in the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم w as holding the hand of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in his hand. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ كُلِّ شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ i.e., O Rasool of Rahmah, (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! You are dearer to me than everything except my own self. The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ لَا وَالَّذِي نَفۡسِي بِيَدِهِ حَتَّى اَكُونَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡكَ مِنۡ نَفۡسِكَ ’ No Umar! By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, (you will not have complete love) until I am dearer to you than even your own self. Then Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ وَاللّٰهِ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ O Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You are dearer to me than even my own self.

Listening to this, the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ الۡآنَ يَا عُمَرُ ’ Now, O ‘Umar, (your love is accomplished) . (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp.283, Hadees 6632)

Dear Islamic brothers! This command is not just specific to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ alone, but it is for each and every Muslim who will come until this world exists, because the love of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a thing without which our faith cannot be completed at all. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

لَايُؤۡمِنُ اَحَدُكُمۡ حَتّٰي اَكُوۡنَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ وَّالِدِہٖ وَ وَلَدِہٖ وَ النَّاسِ اَجۡمَعِيۡن

None of you can become a true believer [Mu`min] until I am dearer to him than his parents, children and all the people.

(Sahih Bukhari, pp. 17, Hadees 14, vol. 1)

Undoubtedly, this is how a Muslim should have reverence and love for the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because this is the most valuable asset of his life.

تُمہاری یاد کو کیسے نہ زِندگی سمجھوں یہی تو ایک سہارا ہے زِندگی کیلئے

میرے تو آپ ہی سب کچھ ہیں رَحمتِ عالَم میں جی رہا ہوں زَمانے میں آپ ہی کیلئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Holiday I’tikaf”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to increase the passion of love and devotion towards the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم in your hearts, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, for further progression in righteous activities, actively take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also “the Holiday I’tikaf”. In this activity, Islamic brothers go to the weak areas of the city and in the countryside of the surrounding vicinities on a day when they are off and enliven the Masajid in those areas. Moreover, local devotees of Rasool are presented with the invitation towards righteousness and Ilm-e-Deen [knowledge of Deen] is learnt and taught.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭, Holiday I’tikaf is a great means of teaching Islamic brothers the Sunnahs and manners and method of Madani Dars etc.

٭ Masajid enliven due to the blessings of the Holiday I’tikaf.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Holiday I’tikaf, every moment spent in the Masjid will be counted as worship.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Holiday I’tikaf, one will get the excellence of loving the Masjid and spending more time in it.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable.

Home environment changed

One Islamic brother of Multan (Pakistan), whose house was severely influenced by heretic mind-set before joining the Madani environment;

heretics started misleading him by visiting his house in the pretence of propagating religion. He was fortunate that one preacher associated with the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, made individual efforts upon him and invited him to take part in the Holiday I’tikaf held under Dawat-e-Islami. He agreed and took part in the Holiday I’tikaf. Then he invited him to the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his home environment gradually became a blossoming garden of Sunnahs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The deep devotion of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is beyond any description! He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would become restless whenever he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remembered the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would shed tears due to the separation from the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His slave, Sayyiduna Aslam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, when Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would speak about the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would become restless and begin to weep out of the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and say, ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most merciful among the people, a father to the orphan and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the bravest person amongst the people. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a luminous face, sweet and pleasant fragrance and according to the blessed lineage, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most revered. None is like him from the predecessors and successors.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 10, pp. 16, Hadees 33)

Farooq-e-A’zam’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ concept of love

Dear Islamic brothers! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is our Master. We all are his humble slaves and no matter how great rank a slave gets, the true love and reverence for his master always remains in his heart. He never forgets his favours, praises his master in front of everyone with great pride and loves the feeling of being his slave. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a true devotee of Rasool, one who was guaranteed Paradise and possessed a high rank amongst the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would himself feel proud of being a slave and servant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was appointed as caliph, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ addressed them from the pulpit:

كُنۡتُ مَعَ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَسَلَّمَ فَكُنۡتُ عَبۡدَہٗ وَخَادِمَهُ

I have been blessed with the company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, I remained his slave and servant. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, pp. 332)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam’s claim of being the slave of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not just his lip service, rather, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was really a true slave of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ acted upon the Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life. But alas! We declare that we are the slaves of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and keep on claiming like this:

جان بھی میں تو دے دوں خُدا کی قسم!

کوئی مانگے اگر مُصطفٰے کے لئے

But our character shows contrary to this. Remember! To love the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not only mean attending congregations of Zikr o Na’at, Meelad processions and reciting Na’at loudly or chanting slogans loudly whilst raising our hands, remaining awake all the night long and then sleeping without offering Salat-ul-Fajr, missing the five times Salahs in normal days and even the Jumu’ah Salah, shaving off the beautiful Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the beard, or keeping it to less than the length of a fist, adopting new fashions whilst abandoning the Sunnah, showing ill-manners and other evils instead of treating others with courtesy; then how could these actions lead to sincere and accomplished love and devotion? Whereas, true love and devotion demands that while fulfilling the rights, we must acknowledge the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be the most Eminent and Highest Ranked of all the people. This would be achieved when we accept the Deen brought by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, respect and revere the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and prioritise the pleasure of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم over everyone and everything, whether it is our own self, offspring, parents, relatives and loved ones or wealth and possessions.

(Ashi’a-ul-Lam’aat, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 50)

Moreover, also keep making efforts to refrain from what the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us and if any wrongdoing is committed due to

human weakness, then repent truly with the hope of being forgiven and being privileged with the blessed intercession of Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and never even have any such thought in future to commit the same sin again.

Let’s make a true and sincere intention that from now on, we will not miss any Salah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, rather, after repenting, we would also offer all our past missed Salah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; we would keep on refraining from sins such as lying, backbiting, tale-telling, breaking promises and deceiving etc., اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; we would abandon fashion and adopt Sunnah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we would watch only Madani Channel whilst abandoning movies, dramas, songs and music اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One of the signs of the true love is also that the one who has devotion deeply loves everything that is associated and attached with his beloved. How remarkable and excellent is the devotional love of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the most Renowned and Revered Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he not only had true devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but also had profound devotion and love to the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم descendants, wives and companions; in fact he would even love and revere even every such thing which would have any kind of association to the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This very thing is required for true and sincere devotion. The blessed biography of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ contains plenty of beautiful parables which reveal his profound devotional love to the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to one such beautiful parable.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in the 1 st and 2 nd Ayah of Surah Al-Balad, part 30:

لَاۤ اُقْسِمُ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِۙ(۱) وَ اَنْتَ حِلٌّۢ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِۙ(۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I swear by this city (Makkah). That (because) O Beloved, you are present in this city. (Part 30, Surah Al-Balad, verse 1-2)

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed commentators of the Glorious Quran have consensus upon the fact that the blessed city whose oath Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned in this blessed Ayah is ‘Makka-tul-Mukarramah’. Indicating to the same blessed Ayah, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to

the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! Your excellence is so elevated in the blessed court of Allah Almighty that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned an oath of only your blessed life, not for any other Nabi. Moreover, your exalted rank and status is so high in His court that He Almighty has mentioned the oath of the soil of your blessed feet through ‘ لَاۤ اُقْسِمُ بِهٰذَا الْبَلَدِ ’.

(Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 493)

Dear Islamic brothers! Through the aforementioned narration, we have learnt that Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to love the sacred city of Makka-tul-Mukarramah also for the reason that the Beloved Master صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was living there. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had the same profound devotion to the blessed city of Madina-tul-Munawwarah. His devotion to the blessed city of Madina-tul-Munawwarah can also be seen from the fact that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to supplicate to pass away in Madina-tul-Munawwarah. Therefore, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to supplicate in the following manner in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

اَللّٰهُمَّ ارۡزُقۡنِي شَهَادَةً فِي سَبِيۡلِكَ وَاجۡعَلۡ

مَوۡتِي فِي بَلَدِ رَسُولِكَ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

i.e., O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant me martyrdom in Your cause and let my death be in the blessed city of Your Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 622, Hadees 1890)

Both these Du’as of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were answered. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on him and forgive us without accountability for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

شہادت اے خدا عطار کو دیدے مدینے میں کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam and obedience to the Beloved Rasool

Dear Islamic brothers! If a person claims to love someone, then he tries to spend his entire life to become like him; emulating his style and obeying him.

One can get a glimpse of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the fact that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ followed the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter.

Cut long sleeves with a knife

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wore a new clothing. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then asked for a knife and said, ‘O son! Pull its long sleeves from the edges and cut the piece that goes beyond my fingers.’ Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I cut it but it was not cut straight, rather, it was cut in a zigzag pattern.’ I humbly said, ‘Dear father! Cutting it with a pair of scissors would have been better?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘Son! Leave it as it is, because I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cut in the same way. That’s why, I cut my sleeves with a knife too.’ when Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had cut the sleeves, the clothing was in such state that threads were falling down from it. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, vol. 5, pp.475, Hadees 7498)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder upon the fact that how overwhelmed was Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the devotion to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and how passionate he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was to act upon the blessed Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that while following the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he also cut his sleeves with a knife but were not cut straight; but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not feel any embarrassment wearing the same very clothing. This obedience of his to the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was of the highest level. Similarly, the state of the devotion of other companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم towards Sunnahs and acting upon them (Sunnahs) was such that no attraction of this world or any false regard of the society could make them leave a Sunnah.

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who was the chief of the Muslims of that area) was once eating food; a morsel fell from his hand on the ground. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked it up, cleaned and then ate it. Seeing this, some uncultured people gave each other a contemptuous look (that how strange it is that he has eaten a dropped morsel). Someone said to him, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless our chief! O our leader! These uncultured people are looking scornfully at you because you have eaten a fallen morsel despite the availability of food in front of him.’ Listening to this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I cannot give up what I heard from

the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because of these ‘Ajamis [non-Arabs]. If a morsel of food falls down, we would instruct each other to pick it up, clean and eat it, and not leave it for Satan.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 17, Hadees 3278)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how intensely Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, an eminent companion and the leader of Muslims, loved the Sunnah, paying no attention at all to the contemptuous gazes of the ‘Ajamis, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued to practice upon the Sunnah without any hesitation.

Unfortunately, some unwise Muslims these days abandon the great Sunnah of beard in the ‘Modern environment’ assuming it to be a ‘wise strategy’. In fact, a true wise strategy is to grow a beard, wear an ‘Imamah (turban) according to the Sunnah and carry out daily routine activities like eating, drinking (water etc.), completely in conformity with the Sunnah, no matter how unfavourable the environment is, and how severe is the criticism from the worldly people. Keep performing individual efforts for your own reformation and that of the people of the entire world. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our mutual efforts will produce fruitful results, the truth will prevail, Satan will be disgraced, message of the blessed Sunnah will spread everywhere, every lover of the wealth of this world will become a devotee of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, every home will be illuminated with the blessed Noor of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis ‘Langer e Razawiyyah’

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, a great mind-set is given to perform virtuous deeds and refrain from sins. Moreover, in order to spread the Madani activities further in an organised manner, various departments have also been established. One department out of those departments is “Majlis e Langer e Razawiyyah”. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, thousands of devotees of Rasool from Pakistan and abroad attain the privilege of attending whole month’s or last ten days’ I’tikaf every year. Great arrangements for “Langar e Razawiyyah” (Sehri and Iftari) are made for them so that they can attend the study circles of ilm e Deen wholeheartedly and Madani Muzakarahs with full concentration. Millions of Rupees are spent in Langar e Razawiyyah. Various

devotees of Rasool also contribute their share in this virtuous act as well. This year too, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I’tikaf for the entire month and last ten days will be conducted in Pakistan and abroad at hundreds of locations where thousands of devotees of Ramadan will attain the blessings of the sacred moments of the month of Ramadan. For the pleasure of Allah Almighty and with other righteous intentions, all devotees of Rasool should attain the privilege of contributing their share in “Langar e Razawiyyah”. May Allah Almighty enable us to take part in virtuous actions and bless Dawat-e-Islami with further progress!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Love does not demand that we take deep interest in the person we love and confine our love to him only. Instead, a lover loves everything that is associated with his beloved; such as his family and household, relatives and closed ones, and friends and beloveds.

Preferred Hasnayn Karimayn رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم to his own children

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that during the era of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam‘s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ caliphate, when the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم conquered Madaain (capital of Persia) with the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the spoils of war were brought to Madina-tul-Munawwarah, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got mats spread in Masjid-un-Nabawi and asked for all the spoils of war to be placed on them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered to get the spoils of war. First of all, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! Give me my share out of the spoils of war that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon the Muslims.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect and prominence is for you. By saying this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave him 1000 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ received his share and left. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect and prominence is for you’ and also gave him 1000 dirhams. Then his son Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘ Great respect and prominence is for

you too’ and gave him 500 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I participated with my sword with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the path of Allah Almighty even at the time when (Sayyiduna) Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) were young Madani children. Despite this, you have given to me 500 dirhams and to them 1000 dirhams each.’ Upon hearing this, being overwhelmed by the devotion to Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said whilst being engrossed in their love, ‘Yes, absolutely! (If you want me to give you the share equal to them) then go and first bring a father like the father of Hasnayn Karimayn, mother like their mother, [maternal] grandfather like their [maternal] grandfather, [maternal] grandmother like theirs, [paternal] uncle like theirs, and [maternal] uncle like theirs; and you can never do this because ‘ اَبُوۡهُمَا فَعَلِيُّ الۡمُرۡتَضٰى ’ their father is Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, ‘ اُمُّهُمَا فَفَاطِمَةُ الزَّهۡرَاء ’ Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz- Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their mother, ‘ جَدُّهُمَا مُحَمَّدُ نِ الۡمُصۡطَفٰي ’ Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is their [maternal] grandfather, ‘ جَدَّتُهُمَا خَدِيۡجَةُ الۡكُبۡرٰى ’ Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their [maternal] grandmother; ‘ عَمُّهُمَا جَعۡفَرُ بۡنُ اَبِيۡ طَالِبٍ ’ Sayyiduna Ja’far Bin Abi Taalib is their [paternal] uncle; ‘ خَالُهُمَا اِبۡرَاهِيۡمُ بۡنُ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ Sayyiduna Ibraheem (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) Bin Rasoolullah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is their [maternal] uncle,‘ خَالَتَاهُمَا رُقَيَّةُ وَ اُمُّ كُلۡثُوۡمٍ اِبۡنَتَا رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ and the daughters of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidah Ruqayyah and Sayyidah Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, are their [maternal] aunts. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 340)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If you want to read the parables of the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of other blessed companions as well like Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, then do study a very good 274-page book that develops and enhances the love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named ‘ Sahabah Kiram ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool ’ [The Blessed Companions’ Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. This book can also be read online from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net, it can also be downloaded and printed as well. Likewise, to develop devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions and the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-

Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will attain the unparalleled treasure of good deeds, develop a mind-set for hating sins, and it will also make our Hereafter better.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding gratitude

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding gratitude. First, listen to 2 sayings of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 Allah Almighty likes the fact that person pays gratitude to Him upon every morsel and sip. (Muslim, pp. 1122, Hadees 6932)

-2 You should keep your tongues moist with Zikr and hearts with gratitude. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 419, Hadees. 590)

٭ Paying gratitude is a worship of the highest ranks. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ It is Wajib [obligatory] to pay gratitude upon the blessings of Allah Almighty. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 2, surah Baqarah, taht-al-Ayah 172)

٭ Being able to pay gratitude is a great blessing. (Shukr kay Fazaail pp. 12)

Announcement

Remaining important Madani pearls regarding gratitude will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati circles. Therefore, in order to learn those Madani pearls, do participate in the Tarbiyyati circles.

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time

of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said,

‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 13 September 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding gratitude

٭ Gratitude safeguards blessings. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Paying gratitude is the habit of the chosen people of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Gratitude is leaving the disobedience of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Person remains protected from torment when he pays gratitude to Allah Almighty upon receiving a blessing. (Siraat-ul-Jinan, vol. 4, pp. 406)

٭ Worship remains incomplete without gratitude. (Bayzawi. Vol. 1, pp. 449)

٭ Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Waasiti (Arabic) narrated: Love of Allah Almighty develops in the heart by remembering His blessings. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 36, pp. 334, Hadees. 4133)

٭ Sayyiduna Umar Bin Abdul Aziz (Arabic) states: Safeguard the blessings of Allah Almighty by paying gratitude over them. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 374, Hadees. 7455)

٭ Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali (Arabic) states: Gratitude of heart is that one intends to do goodness and act of piety with a blessing.

٭ Gratitude of tongue is that Allah Almighty is glorified over a certain blessing.

٭ Gratitude of the remaining body parts is that the blessings of Allah Almighty should be spent in the worship of Allah Almighty; and protect them from being spent in the disobedience of Allah Almighty.

٭ Gratitude of eyes is that if one sees a fault of a Muslim, then he conceals it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for the time of calamity

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima this week, the Du’a for “the time of calamity” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیْهِ رٰجِعُوْنَ۔ اَللّٰھُمَّ اَجِرۡنِیۡ مُصِیۡبَتِیۡ وَاَخۡلِفۡ لِیۡ خَیۡرٍمِّنۡھَا

Translation: Undoubtedly, we belong to Allah Almighty and no doubt we are to return to Him. O Allah Almighty, reward me in my calamity and grant me better than this.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

2- Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3- Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4- Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5- Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6- Paid Salam to Muslims?

7- Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8- Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9- Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10- Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11- Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12- Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13- Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14- Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15- Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16- Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17- Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18- Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19- Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20- Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21- Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22- Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23- Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24- Obeyed your Nigran?

25- Refrained from using things asking from others?

26- In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27- Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28- Controlled your anger?

29- Refrained from useless questions?

30- Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31- Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32- Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33- Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34- Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35- Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36- Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37- Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38- Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39- Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40- Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41- Paid back the loan on time?

42- Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43- Kept unified relations?

44- Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45- Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46- While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47- Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48- Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49- Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50- Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1- Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2- Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3- Inquired after an ill person?

4- Took part in Madani Daurah?

5- Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6- Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7- Sent a letter?

8- Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

