اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Parables of Those Who Celebrated the Month of Meelad

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When people who love each other for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ meet together, shake hands [with each other] and recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, the past and future sins of both of them are forgiven before they separate from each other.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 95, Hadees 2951)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

Explanation of couplet: O my Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Though my sins are too many, you are the one who forgives unconditionally; forgive my sins and flaws as well; May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ descend billions of Salat and Salam upon you!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

There was a true Muslim devotee, namely Ibraheem who resided in Madina-tul- Munawwarah. He would always earn Halal sustenance and would save half of his earnings for the celebration of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal would arrive, he would celebrate Meelad enthusiastically, abiding by the commandments of Shari’ah. He would distribute food in large quantity among the people for the Isal-e-Sawab of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would spend money for righteous acts. His wife was also a great devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She would also co-operate with her husband with heart and soul in these good deeds. After a few years, his wife passed away but he continued to celebrate Meelad.

One day, this true Muslim devotee, Ibraheem called his young son and made his will, ‘Dear son! I will pass away tonight; I have 50 dirhams and 19 yards of cloth. Use the cloth for my shroud and if possible, spend the money for any righteous act.’ Having said this, he recited Kalimah Tayyibah and departed this life. The son buried his father according to his will, but he was rather confused about spending the money his father had left for a righteous act. When he slept that night, he dreamt that it was the Judgement Day and everyone was worried only for his own self. Fortunate people were going towards the Paradise, whereas the sinners were being dragged to the Hell. He stood shivering with fear thinking about the decision that would be made for him! Meanwhile, a voice was heard from Ghayb [i.e. unseen], ‘Let this young man enter the Paradise.’

Therefore, he entered the Paradise happily and started moving around. After visiting all the seven Paradise, when he moved towards the 8 th Paradise, the keeper of Paradise, Sayyiduna Rizwaan عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said: ‘Only those who celebrated the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal in the world are allowed to enter this Paradise.’ Upon hearing this, he understood that his parents would be there. A voice was then heard, ‘Let this young man enter [this Paradise]. His parents want to meet him.’ Therefore, he went in and saw his deceased mother sitting near the stream of Kawsar. Nearby, there was a throne on which an honourable lady was sitting. There were also some other chairs on which many venerable ladies were

sitting. He asked an angel, ‘Who are they?’ The angel replied, ‘The one sitting on the throne is Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and [those sitting] on the chairs are Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah, Sayyidatuna Maryam, Sayyidatuna Aasiyah, Sayyidatuna Saarah, Sayyidatuna Haajirah, Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah and Sayyidatuna Zubaydah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُـنَّ .’

He became very happy and moved forward. As he further moved forward, he saw a great throne on which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting and his luminous face was shining. Around the throne, there were four chairs on which the Khulafa-e-Rashideen (the first four righteous Caliphs رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) were sitting. On the right side, there were golden chairs on which the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام were sitting and on the left, the blessed Shuhada [i.e. martyrs] were sitting. In the meantime, the young man saw his deceased father [Ibraheem] among a crowd near the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Ibraheem happily embraced his son. The son asked, ‘Dear father, how did you attain this status?’ Ibraheem replied, ‘ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have been blessed with this status by virtue of celebrating the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

The following morning, he sold his house at a low price and arranged a feast using all the money he had received by selling his house along with his deceased father’s 50 dirhams. He invited Islamic scholars and pious Muslims and served them. As he was no longer interested in the worldly activities, he decided to serve a Masjid and spent the rest of his 30 years in it, worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After his death, someone saw him in a dream and asked what had happened to him. He replied, ‘By virtue of the blessings of celebrating Meelad [of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], I have been sent to my deceased father in Paradise.’ (Subh-e-Baharan, pp. 8-11)

بخش دے مجھ کو الٰہی! بہرِ میلاد النبی

نامَۂ اعمال عِصیاں سے مِرا بھر پور ہے

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 484)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just listened to the faith-refreshing parable of a person who used to celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Certainly, celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows His favours and blessings abundantly upon those who celebrate it. Undoubtedly, the celebration of the most auspicious occasion of Meelad brings about loads of rewards, and observe that how devotee of Rasool make this blessed event more and more reward earning. They decorate their homes, streets, localities even vehicles with Madani flags, sparkling small electric bulbs, colourful lights, make announcements of sighting Rabi-ul-Awwal Moon with congratulatory messages, repent of sins especially upon the arrival of this month, make a firm intention to lead a life as per the Madani method [i.e. Madani In’amaat] in order to attain the steadfastness in acting upon the Sunnahs and good deeds, in order to chant the slogan ‘Marhaba Ya Mustafa’ village to village, area to area travel with the Madani Qafilah with Islamic brothers, call people towards righteousness by distributing Madani booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah in the congregation of Meelad and the Meelad processions, for 12 days arrange Sunnah-inspiring congregations of celebrating Meelad in different Masajid, attend weekly Ijtima and Madani Muzakarah from beginning to end holding a Madani flag, perform Ghusl, wear a new dress and buy new articles of daily use, observe Sawm (fast) acting upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on this blessed day, welcome Subh-e-Baharan (the earliest part of morning) by reciting Salat and Salam with tearful eyes raising Madani flags, after Fajr Salah meet each other warmly by saying Salam and wishing the sacred Eid Day, meet people with pleasant emotion and give them wishes of Eid of Meelad throughout the day, express excitement and delight, arrange Langer (act of serving food) of Meelad amongst the devotees of Rasool of Meelad Ijtima and Meelad Procession, recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, Salam and Na’ats in the state of Wudu raising Madani flags in Meelad, chant slogan of ‘Marhaba Ya Mustafa’ keeping head lowered with the sense of having reverence for Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they spend immense amount of money in charity acts.

جب تَلک یہ چاند تارے جِھلمِلاتے جائیں گے تب تَلک جشنِ وِلادت ہم مناتے جائیں گے

اُن کے عاشق نور کی شمعیں جلاتے جائیں گے جبکہ حاسد دِل جلاتے سٹپٹاتے جائیں گے

حشر تک جشنِ وِلادت ہم مناتے جائیں گے مرحبا کی دُھوم یارو! ہم مچاتے جائیں گے

جھوم کر سارے کہو آقا کی آمد مرحبا حشر میں بھی ہم یہی نعرہ لگاتے جائیں گے

تم کرو جشنِ وِلادت کی خوشی میں روشنی

وہ تُمہاری گورِ تِیرہ جگمگاتے جائیں گے

ذِکرِ مِیلادِ مبارک کیسے چھوڑیں ہم بھلا

جن کا کھاتے ہیں اُنہِیں کے گِیت گاتے جائیں گے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the mercy, not only for one nation or country, but rather for all the worlds. In the Glorious Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 107 of Surah Al-Ambiya, part 17:

وَ مَاۤ اَرۡسَلۡنٰکَ اِلَّا رَحۡمَۃً لِّلۡعٰلَمِیۡنَ ﴿۱۰۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We have not sent you, but as a Mercy for all the worlds. (Part 17, Al-Ambiya, Ayah 107)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has Himself commanded us to rejoice upon receiving His mercy, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Holy Quran, part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah 58:

قُلۡ بِفَضۡلِ اللّٰہِ وَ بِرَ حۡمَتِہٖ فَبِذٰ لِکَ فَلۡیَفۡرَ حُوۡ ا ؕ ہُوَ خَیۡرٌ مِّمَّا یَجۡمَعُوۡ نَ ﴿۵۸﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say O Beloved, ‘Only upon Allah’s benevolence and upon His mercy, and on it they (people) should rejoice’; that is better than all their wealth. (Part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah 58)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: O Beloved! After giving this good news to the people, also command them to rejoice greatly upon receiving the benevolence and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Generally, rejoice all the time; but special celebration should be made on those dates when these blessings were granted i.e. Ramadan, in particular, Shab-e-Qadr; and Rabi’-ul-Awwal, in particular, the 12 th of Rabi-ul-Awwal. It is because the benevolence of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, i.e. the Holy Quran was sent down in Ramadan and the mercy for all the worlds was granted in Rabi’-ul-Awwal, i.e. the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born.

The act of making celebrations upon receiving this grace and mercy is better than your worldly accumulated possessions, money, home, property, animals, agriculture and even children etc. because the benefit gained from these celebrations is not confined to a person but the whole nation benefits from it; its benefit is not temporary but everlasting, not only in this world but also in the Hereafter, not only physical but also heartfelt and spiritual. It has no harm, but Sawab [i.e. reward]. (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 11, pp. 369)

خُوشیاں مناؤ بھائیو! سرکار آگئے

سرکار آگئے، شہِ ابرار آگئے

سب جُھوم جُھوم کر کہو سرکار آگئے

دونوں جہاں کے مالک و مختار آگئے

خُوشیوں کے لمحات آگئے دیوانے جُھوم اُٹھے

عیدوں کی عید آگئی سرکار آگئے

سرکار کی آمد …مرحبا سردار کی آمد …مرحبا آمنہ کے پھول کی آمد …مرحبا رسولِ مقبول کی آمد …مرحبا پیارے کی آمد …مر حبا اچھے کی آمد … مرحبا سچے کی آمد …مرحبا سوہنے کی آمد …مرحبا موہنے کی آمد …مرحبا مُختار کی آمد …مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! To celebrate the blessed Meelad [i.e. the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] is the commandment of Quran and

celebrating it pleases the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Every year, the month of Rabi’-ul Awwal arrives with all its greatness, mercy and blessings and fortunate devotees of Rasool express their joy by decorating their homes, shops, vehicles, streets, Mahallahs and cities with Madani flags and colourful lights as per their financial capacity and capability. Besides celebrating Meelad, we should also know: At what time and on which day was the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم born and what was the date? Let’s listen to this information.

The most Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born as a beacon of guidance for the entire world after 55 days of the event of Ashaab-ul- Feel [i.e. people of the elephant], on 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, Monday, 20 th April 571 at the break of dawn when some stars were visibly twinkling in the sky.

Shining with the most luminous face, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in this world having placed his both blessed hands on the floor and having raised his blessed head towards the sky. He was full of Musk fragrance, kohl-eyed, circumcised, miraculously pure and clean, having no umbilical (navel) cord, and having the blessed seal of Nubuwwat radiating between the blessed shoulders. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 66-75)

چاند سا چمکاتے چہرہ نور برساتے ہوئے

آگئے بدرالدجٰی اَھلاً وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

آمِنہ کے گھر میں آقا کی وِلادت ہوگئی

مرحبا صَلِّ عَلٰی اَھلاً وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

سوئی قِسمت جاگ اُٹھی اور سب کی بگڑی بن گئی

بابِ رحمت وا ہوا اَھلاً وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The people of Makkah also pay a visit to the blessed house of Rasoolullah and hold gathering or congregation of blessed Meelad-un-Nabi over there on the very date of 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 14)

سَحابِ رحمتِ باری ہے بارہویں تاریخ

کرم کا چشمۂ جاری ہےبارہویں تاریخ

ہمیں توجان سے پیاری ہے بارہویں تاریخ

عَدو کے دِل کو کَٹاری ہے بارہویں تاریخ

ہزار عیدہوں ایک ایک لحظہ پرقُرباں

خُوشی دلوں پہ وہ طاری ہے بارہویں تاریخ

ہمیشہ تُونے غلاموں کے دِل کیے ٹھنڈے

جلے جو تجھ سے وہ ناری ہے بارہویں تاریخ

حسن ؔ وِلادتِ سرکار سے ہوا روشن

میرے خدا کو بھی پیار ی ہے بارہویں تاریخ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the date of 12 th of Rabi-ul-Awwal has great significance. On this very date [i.e. 12 th of Rabi-ul-Awwal], all the darkness of Kufr [i.e. unbelief] and Shirk [i.e. polytheism] lifted; on the same date, light shone everywhere; on the same date, feelings of joy pervaded everywhere; on the same date, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel Ameen عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام planted a flag on the roof of sacred Ka’bah; and it is this very date [i.e. 12 th of Rabi-ul-Awwal] which is even superior to Shab-e-Qadr.

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘Indeed, the night of the birth of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is superior even to Shab-e-Qadr, because the night of his blessed birth is the night when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in this world, whereas ‘ لَیْلَۃُ الْقَدْر ’ is the night which has been bestowed upon him. In fact, the night whose greatness lies in the advent of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is more sacred than the night whose greatness lies in the advent of the angels.’ (Masabata bis-Sunnah, pp. 153)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the Muslims, the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal is the greatest Eid of all the Eids. Indeed, if the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not arrived in this world, there would have been no Eid and no Layla-tul-Bara’at. In fact, all the

glory and greatness of the universe are by virtue of the blessed advent of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

وہ جو نہ تھے تو کچھ نہ تھا وہ جو نہ ہوں تو کچھ نہ ہو

جان ہیں وہ جَہان کی جان ہے تو جہان ہے

سرکار کی آمد …مرحبا سردار کی آمد …مرحبا آمنہ کے پھول کی آمد …مرحبا رسولِ مقبول کی آمد …مرحبا پیارے کی آمد …مر حبا اچھے کی آمد … مرحبا سچے کی آمد …مرحبا سوہنے کی آمد …مرحبا موہنے کی آمد …مرحبا مُختار کی آمد …مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become clear that the blessed day of the birth of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is most superior to all days. Therefore, we should also celebrate this day with great enthusiasm, in conformity with Shari’ah. We should hold Ijtima of Meelad, raise Madani flags and join the procession of Meelad. We should develop the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity in large quantities on this day. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, many blessings will be received.

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘For the one who expresses his joy and delight on the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, this happiness will become a shield, protecting him from Hell. O Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May this be good news for you that you have been declared to be deserving of abundance of blessings in the world and the Hereafter. The one celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be granted respect, blessing, goodness and glory; he will enter the Paradise wearing an ‘Imamah [i.e. Islamic turban] of pearls and a green attire of Paradise; he will be granted countless palaces and there will be a Hoor in each palace. Recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in abundance and celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, making it known widely. (Majmu’ Lateef-un-Nabi, pp. 281)

Hafiz-ul-Hadees Imam Abul Khayr Muhammad Bin ‘Abdur Rahman Sakhaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Great benevolence is shown to the people who celebrate the blessed birth [of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], by virtue of the blessings of this [reward-earning] act.’ (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 1, pp. 362)

Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Muhammad Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Among the benefits of arranging the gathering of Meelad in the month of the blessed birth of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is proven that the year turns out to be peaceful. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon the one who celebrates the nights of the blessed birth-month of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم like Eid.’ (Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 78)

عِیدِ مِیلادُ النّبی تو عِید کی بھی عِید ہے

بالیقیں ہے عِیدِ عِیداں عیدِ مِیلادُ النّبی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Besides adopting different ways to celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, if possible, observe Sawm [i.e. fast] on the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, and in particular, on every Monday because our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also celebrated his birthday by observing Sawm on Mondays.

Sayyiduna Abu Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked as to why he observed Sawm on Mondays. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم responded, ‘I was born on this day and the Holy Quran was sent down to me on the same day (i.e. on this day, first revelation was sent down).’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol.1, pp. 563, Hadees 2045)

Listen to another narration in which mentioning about his own blessed birth, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم: I will now tell you what my beginning is. The Du’a of Sayyiduna Ibrahim, the

good news of Sayyiduna Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and the dream of my mother that she saw at the time of my birth; at the time of my birth, for my mother, a Noor [i.e. light] appeared which illuminated the palaces of Syria before her.

(Masabata bis-Sunnah, pp. 137)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned the advent and the excellence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the Holy Quran and then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself has mentioned his blessed birth, similarly, the blessed Sahabah would also repeatedly mention the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in their own gatherings.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Sayyiduna Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came near the Halqah [i.e. gathering] of Sahabah and asked: ‘What is impelling you to sit here?’ The Sahabah رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم humbly replied: ‘We are sitting here to do the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and giving thanks [to Him] as He has blessed us with the guidance of Islam and did us a great favour by you.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Has only this thing impelled you to sit here?’ It was humbly replied: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Nothing is impelling us to sit here except this.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: ‘[Sayyiduna] Jibra’eel [ عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ] approached me and informed me that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is proud of you before the Angels.’ (Sunan Nasa’ee, pp. 861, Hadees 5436)

Dear Islamic brothers! After the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It became clear that it is Sunnah [i.e. way] of blessed Sahabah to hold gatherings and sit in the form of Halqahs to express thanks for Islam and for the blessed advent of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This blessed Hadees is the proof of the gathering of blessed Meelad. (Mirat, vol. 3, pp. 321)

Remember, according to the beliefs of Ahl-us-Sunnah, the blessed gathering of Meelad is one of the most excellent acts of Mustahabbat [i.e. desirable deeds] and one of the most superior of virtuous acts. (Al-Haq-ul-Mubeen, pp. 100)

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The blessed Meelad, that is, the speech about the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is permissible. In the blessed Meelad, the descriptions of the Beloved Rasool’s miracles, virtues, habits, life history, biography, days spent with his foster-mother and declaration of Nubuwwat are mentioned. These descriptions have also been mentioned in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees. If the Muslims deliver these narrations in their congregations or if they particularly hold a congregation to deliver such narrations, there is no reason to declare these congregations as impermissible. Inviting people to attend such congregations is inviting them towards goodness. The way announcements are made for speeches and processions, advertisements are published and distributed, articles about them are published in newspapers, and these speeches and congregations are not declared to be impermissible for these reasons; in the same way, this Majlis [i.e. the celebration of the blessed birth of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] of his blessed Zikr [i.e. remembrance] cannot be declared impermissible and as an innovation in religion if invitations are sent out for it. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 644-645)

ربیعِ پاک تجھ پر اَہلسُنَّت کیوں نہ قُرباں ہوں

کہ تیری بارھویں تاریخ وہ جانِ قمر آیا

Dear Islamic brothers! It became clear that the act of holding an Ijtima of Zikr and Na’at in which the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his blessed Raza’at [i.e. time spent with his foster-mother] and the parables of his sacred childhood are mentioned; the act of gathering people for speeches which are delivered in it, and out of happiness of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the act of serving food amongst the people, are all permissible.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Muslims celebrate the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this sacred month. They display Madani flags in Masajid, houses, shops, on vehicles and in the streets; people illuminate their houses and localities with lots of colourful and beautiful lights; they attend the Ijtima of Zikr and Na’at on the 12 th night of Rabi’-ul-Awwal with the intention of attaining Sawab [i.e. reward] and at dawn they welcome Subh-e-Baharan with tearful eyes while reciting Salat Alan Nabi and Salam, and raising Madani flags. On the day of 12 Rabi’-ul-Awwal, while observing Sawm [i.e. fast], they join the procession of Meelad. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم becomes pleased with such devotees of Rasool who celebrate the blessed Meelad.

A pious saint has stated: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I had the privilege to see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. I humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Do you like the deed of Muslims of celebrating your blessed birth every year?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم responded: ‘The one who celebrates my birth and becomes pleased with me, I also become pleased with him.’ (Tazkira-tul-Wa’izeen, pp. 600)

خدا کی رِضا چاہتے ہیں دو عالَم خدا چاہتا ہے رِضائے محمد

Explanation of couplet: Both the worlds have deep eagerness of the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wants the pleasure of His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . On the Day of Judgment, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will gather all the people, and will say to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘ کُلُّھُمْ یَطْلُبُوْنَ رِضَائِیْ وَاَنَااَطْلُبُ رِضَاکَ یَامُحَمَّدْ ’, all of them want My pleasure and O Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I want your pleasure.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: The reward for those who celebrate the night of the blessed birth of the Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make them enter Jannat-un-Na’eem by His blessing and mercy. Muslims have always been holding Meelad gatherings, and out of happiness of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they have been holding feasts and have been giving Sadaqah and charity in abundance. Expressing their sheer joy, Muslims go to great expense, decorate their homes and hold gatherings to do the Zikr of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . By virtue of all these good and virtuous deeds, the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are showered upon them. (Masabata bis-Sunnah, pp. 155)

سرکار کی آمد …مرحبا سردار کی آمد …مرحبا آمنہ کے پھول کی آمد …مرحبا رسولِ مقبول کی آمد …مرحبا پیارے کی آمد …مر حبا اچھے کی آمد … مرحبا سچے کی آمد …مرحبا سوہنے کی آمد …مرحبا موہنے کی آمد …مرحبا مُختار کی آمد …مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی مرحبا یا مصطفی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s now listen to the unique styles adopted by devotees of the Beloved Rasool to celebrate Meelad in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal. People celebrate the month of Meelad with great enthusiasm and dedication.

The king of Arbal, Abu Sa’eed Muzaffar would celebrate Meelad every year with great enthusiasm in the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal. He would arrange a very large gathering of Meelad. A person who had attended these gatherings, has said: I saw 5000 heads of roasted goats, 10,000 hens, 100,000 bowls of Firni [i.e. a sweet dish] and 30,000 trays of halvah [i.e. also a sweet dish]. Many Islamic scholars and Sufis would attend the Meelad. The king would present them with expensive clothing and gifts. He would spend 300 thousand dinars on the gathering of Meelad every year. There would be guest houses for the guests on which he would spend 100 thousand dinars every year. He would spend 30,000 dinars on repairing the routes to the Haramayn

Sharifayn. These all Sadaqat were in addition to the Sadaqat which were given secretly. (Subul-ul-Huda, pp. 362)

On page 72 of his book titled, ‘Seerat-e-Mustafa’, ‘Allamah Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: In the Islamic history, the blessed home in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born, is termed ‘Mawlid-un-Nabi’ (i.e. the birth place of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Indeed, this is a very sacred and blessed place at which Muslim rulers and kings would arrange the gatherings of Meelad. They built a marvellous structure where the inhabitants of sacred Haramayn and Muslims from all over the world would constantly hold the gatherings of Meelad and abundantly recite Salat and Salam and would present the gift of all these blessed acts in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

In his book Fuyooz-ul-Haramayn, a renowned Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Shah Waliyyullah Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: I once attended a gathering of Meelad held by the people of Makkah on the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal at Mawlid-un-Nabi (i.e. the birthplace of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). While the Zikr of the blessed birth was being done, I noticed some anwaar [i.e. spiritual lights] rising from the gathering. After paying full attention to them, I understood that they were the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and anwaar of those angels who are present in such gatherings. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 72-73)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami, a global, non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah has been serving Islam propagating call towards righteousness through approximately 103 departments. The Madani Tarbiyyat Gah is also one of these departments. Under this Majlis, Islamic brothers coming from different countries, cities and villages are provided Madani Tarbiyyat. After gaining Islamic knowledge and learning Sunnah these

Islamic brothers go back to their areas and localities and call Muslims towards righteousness. Therefore, for Madani Tarbiyyat, we should also visit Madani Tarbiyyat Gah of Dawat-e-Islami from time to time. Whatever we learn, we should impart it to others. Furthermore, those Islamic brothers who cannot manage to travel with Madani Qafilah, through individual efforts, keep sending them to Madani Tarbiyyat Gahs [centres] for some days from time to time. By virtue of the blessings of this noble act, numerous devotees of Rasool will associate with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami practically and will participate in Madani activities enthusiastically, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: (My spiritual guide) Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah (Maulana Ziyauddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) had a deep love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Here it would not be wrong to say that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an ardent lover of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم . He would do Zikr of Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم day and night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would frequently ask the visitors [of the blessed Raudah] a question, ‘Do you recite Na’at?’ If the answer would be ‘yes’, he would then listen to his Na’at and would be greatly pleased. Many times, tears would stream down on his face as he would become emotional. The Meelad gathering would be held at his blessed residence daily, throughout the year. People from Madinah, Turkey, Pakistan, India, Syria, Egypt, Africa, Sudan, in fact, people from all over the world would attend it.

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I also had the privilege to recite Na’at in this sacred Mahfil [i.e. gathering] many times.

One thing that I observed in the Mahfil of Qutb-e-Madinah is that, out of his humbleness, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not make Du’a at the end of the Mahfil; rather, he would ask any of the attendees to make Du’a. Blessed Langer [i.e. food served for Isal-e-Sawab] was arranged daily after the Du’a.

(Sharh Shajarah Qadiriyyah, pp. 131-132)

Dear Islamic brothers! No matter which country Muslims belong to; whether they are from Makkah Mukarramah or Madinah Munawwarah or from any

other country, they have the sign of Iman [faith] i.e. the love of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in their hearts and they hold the gatherings of Meelad to express their love for him, and they will continue to do so. We should keep in mind the manners of Meelad gatherings. Whenever we are privileged to attend the gathering of Meelad, so, first of all, we should perform Ghusl [i.e. ritual bath] in a proper way, then wear neat and clean clothes and if possible, we should wear a good perfume. We should then go to the place of gathering and sit wherever we find a space. Lowering our eyes in an extremely respectful manner, we should listen (to the speeches, Na’ats, etc.) silently. At the end of the Ijtima’ [i.e. congregation] of Meelad, we should recite Salat and Salam while standing with the intention of showing reverence for the Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will receive many blessings.

From his respectable father [Sayyid ‘Abbas Maaliki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ], the Islamic scholar of Hijaz, Shaykh Sayyid ‘Alawee Bin ‘Abbas Maaliki Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated a parable of a person who used to listen to the whole gathering of Meelad while standing. The father of Shaykh Sayyid ‘Alawee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I was attending a gathering of Meelad on the night of 12 Rabi’-ul-Awwal in Bait-ul-Muqaddas. I saw an old man present in the Meelad gathering, standing in an extremely respectful manner from beginning to end. Someone asked him about the reason for listening to the whole Meelad gathering while standing. In response, he shared his account: [There was a time when] I didn’t consider it good to listen to the Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while standing out of reverence. One day, I dreamt that I was present in a very large Ijtima [congregation] and people were standing to welcome the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived, all the people welcomed him in an extremely respectful manner, but I did not stand up. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Now you will not be able to stand.’ When I woke up, I saw that I was still sitting. In this state of anxiety, a whole year had passed and I was not able to stand [on my feet]. Finally, I made this vow: ‘If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ cures me of this ailment, I will listen to Meelad gathering from beginning to end while standing.’ By virtue of the blessing of this vow, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ healed me. Now it has become my routine to listen to the whole Mahfil [i.e. Meelad gathering] while standing.

تِرا نام لے کر جو مانگے وہ پائے تیرا نام لیوا ہے پیارا خدا ک ا

تِرے رُتبہ میں جس نے چون و چرا کی نہ سمجھا وہ بد بخت رُتبہ خدا کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the love for the celebration of Meelad-un-Nabi, obtain and study the booklet titled ‘Subh-e-Baharan [The Dawn of blessings]’ written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and distribute as many as possible.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This booklet contains evidences of celebrating the month of Meelad in the light of Quran and Hadees. This booklet also contains the method of taking out and joining the Juloos-e-Meelad [i.e. procession] in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, and good intentions of holding Meelad gatherings besides many other Madani pearls. Furthermore, it contains the Madani parables of the devotees of the Beloved Rasool who attend the Ijtima [i.e. congregation] of celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arranged by Dawat-e-Islami. Therefore, obtain this booklet today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah, study it yourself, and persuade others to study as well. This booklet can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami to receive lots of blessings of Meelad-e-Mustafa. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Eid-e-Meelad-un-Nabi is celebrated enthusiastically every year at different places of many countries including Pakistan, under the management of Dawat-e-Islami. On the 12 th night of Rabi-ul-Awwal, a great Meelad gathering is organized and on the day [of 12 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal], countless Meelad processions

are taken out resounding with chants ‘ Marhaba Ya Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’, joined by hundreds of thousands of devotees of the Beloved Rasool.

عیدِ میلادُ النَّبی تو عید کی بھی عید ہے

بالیقیں ہے عیدِ عیداں عیدِ میلاد النَّبی

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The fragrant environment of Dawat-e-Islami provides us with good company. By virtue of this blessed environment, hundreds of thousands of people have repented of their sinful activities and are now living virtuous lives. You are also requested to associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and spread the call to righteousness everywhere and participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 weekly Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is to attend the weekly Madani Muzakarah from beginning to end. Madani Muzakarah is such a noble question-and-answer session that one gains Islamic knowledge in the form of interesting answers given to different questions asked from Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . The excellence of Islamic knowledge can be understood from this blessed Hadith narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘ O Abu Zar (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! If you learn one Ayah from the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the morning, it is better for you than offering 100 Rak’aat Nafl, and if you learn one chapter from Islamic knowledge in the morning, it is better for you than offering 1000 Rak’aat Nawafil, whether you act upon it or not.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-us-Sunnah, vol. 1, pp. 142, Hadees 219)

You are also requested to attend the Madani Muzakarah every week from beginning to end and invite other Islamic brothers to attend it as well. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ many blessings will be received. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ many Islamic brothers have repented of their sinful activities by virtue of the blessing of watching Madani Channel. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

An Islamic brother from Keamari Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) has stated: I used to abuse and argue with people over minor issues. I was extremely fond of watching films and dramas and listening to songs and music. I had wasted a large part of my life in these sins. I used to work as a driver of the owner of a mansion. What led me to repent of my sins is that one day after I had done my work I sat in a room where I listened to a Sunnah-inspiring speech being telecast on Madani Channel. The speech made me tremble with fear, causing me to feel ashamed of sins. I sincerely repented of my sins to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and firmly intended to tread on the path of Sunnah.

When the announcement of the 30-day Tarbiyyati I’tikaf in the holy month of Ramadan was made on Madani Channel to persuade Muslims to attend it, I immediately made the intention of attending the I’tikaf. Acting upon my intention, I am now reaping the blessings of the I’tikaf in the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. I will also travel with a 12-month Madani Qafilah immediately after the I’tikaf, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! For every important work there are some necessary manners, therefore, there are some manners for celebrating Meelad as well. All non-Shar’i activities must be avoided, such as to decorate the streets or the roads etc. in such ways that causes inconvenience to drivers and pedestrians, this is impermissible. Women leaving their homes to see the illuminations by moving among strange men without any purdah and even the intermingling of women in purdah with men in a usual manner is absolutely unacceptable. Furthermore, the theft of electricity is clearly impermissible, therefore, power supply companies should be contacted for this purpose and illuminations should only be done in a permissible way. Remain in Wudu for as long as possible during the Meelad procession and take special care of Salah with Jama’at.

Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us some important Madani

pearls about celebrating Meelad in his letter. Let’s have the privilege to attentively listen to this letter of Attar:

%

Sag-e-Madinah Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi عُـفِـیَ عَـنۡـهُ sends Salam from the core of his heart to all the lovers of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the delightful celebration of Meelad Shareef.

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ وَرَحۡمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُه ٗ

اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ عَلٰي كُلِّ حَالٍ

تم بھی کر کے اُن کا چرچا اپنے دِل چمکاؤ

اُونچے میں اُونچا نبی کا جھنڈا گھر گھر میں لہراؤ

On the first night of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, make this announcement three times in all the Masajid:

‘Congratulations to all Islamic brothers and sisters! The moon of Rabi’-ul-Awwal has been sighted.’

ربیعُ النُّور اُمّیدوں کی دُنیا ساتھ لے آیا

دُعاؤں کی قَبولیَّت کو ہاتھوں ہاتھ لے آیا

Men’s shaving their beards or trimming it to less than a fist-length – both these acts are Haraam. For Islamic sisters not to observe Shar’i veiling is a Haraam act. By virtue of the auspicious occasion of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, Islamic brothers are requested to make an intention to grow a fistful beard permanently and Islamic sisters are requested to make the intention of observing Shar’i

Pardah, preferably wearing a Madani Burqa’. It is also Wajib to immediately repent of these sins and refrain from them).

جُھک گیا کعبہ سبھی بُت مُنہ کے بَل اَوندھے گِرے

دَبدبہ آمد کا تھا، اَھلاً وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 257)

A great Madani method to acquire steadfastness in practising the Sunnah and other good deeds is that all lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should make a firm intention to practice Fikr-e-Madinah daily, to fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet and submit it on the 1 st of every month. Say ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ by raising your hands.

بدلیاں رَحمت کی چھائیں بُوندیاں رَحمت کی آئیں

اب مُرادیں دل کی پائِیں آمدِ شاہِ عَرَب ہے

(Qabalah-e-Bakhshish, pp. 184)

All lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم including the Nigran and Zimmahdaran should travel with a Madani Qafilah for at least three days, particularly in this blessed month. Islamic sisters should deliver Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat for thirty days in their homes (only to Islamic sisters and Mahrams of the family) and then make the intention to continue it after Rabi’-ul-Awwal as well.

لُوٹنے رَحمتیں قافِلے میں چلو

سیکھنے سُنَّتیں قافِلے میں چلو

Display 12 flags or at least one green flag in your Masjid, home, shop, factory, etc. from the moon-sighting night of Rabi’-ul-Awwal right to the last day of Rabi-un-noor. Buy flags at your own expense and display them on buses, wagons, trucks, trailers, taxis, rickshaws, etc. Display a flag on your bicycle, scooter and car as well. The beautiful display of green waving flags will be

seen everywhere. Usually big pictures of living things or obscene couplets are printed at the back of trucks. It is my wish that the words ‘ I love Dawat-e-Islami ’ is printed in bold letters at the back of trucks, buses, wagons, rickshaws, taxis, Suzukis and cars etc. Make Madani efforts in this regard by meeting and persuading the transporters and bus owners and receive Du’as from the bottom of my heart.

If the flag bears writing or an image of the blessed Na’l (image of the Blessed Shoe-sole of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), then make sure that the flag does not get torn nor falls onto the ground. Furthermore, as soon as the month of blessed Rabi’-ul-Awwal ends, remove the flags immediately. If you do not take caution then an act of disrespect could be committed, rather use simple green flags i.e. without the sacred images and writings on them.

(Sag-e-Madinah also displays simple (green) flags as far as possible at his home, named Bayt-ul-Fana).

نبی کا جھنڈا لیکر نکلو دُنیا پر چھا جاؤ

نبی کا جھنڈا اَمن کا جَھنڈا گھر گھر میں لہراؤ

Illuminate your home with 12 lighting strings or at least 12 bulbs. Also try and install decorative lightings in your area and Masjid for 12 days. (Keep in mind that the theft of electricity for these acts is Haraam, therefore, use electricity in permissible ways by contacting the power supply company). Decorate the whole area with green flags, buntings and colourful bulbs. Display big flags (12 metres long or as suited) on the roof of your home and Masjid and on main busy squares etc. such that they may not hinder pedestrians/traffic in anyway and also make sure that public rights are not violated. Do not hoist flags in the middle of the road as this will obstruct the traffic. Do not decorate streets etc. in a way that narrows the passage for Muslims and results in a violation of their rights and causes them to be inconvenienced.

مَشرق و مَغرب میں اِک اِک بامِ کعبہ پر بھی ایک

نَصب پرچم ہوگیا، اَھلًا وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

مَشرق و مَغرب میں اِک اِک بامِ کعبہ پر بھی ایک

نَصب پرچم ہوگیا، اَھلًا وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

Every Islamic brother should distribute as many booklets and pamphlets of Madani pearls as possible according to their financial capacity or he should distribute different booklets and pamphlets of Madani pearls published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah amounting at least to 12 PKR to the participants of the Meelad procession. Islamic sisters should also get the booklets distributed.

Similarly, make your contribution to calling Muslims towards righteousness by keeping booklets in your shops etc. for free distribution throughout the year. Make efforts for such distributions of booklets on occasions of weddings, funerals etc. and for conveying Sawab to the deceased. Also persuade other Muslims to do the same.

بانٹ کر مَدَنی رسائل دِین کو پھیلائیے

کر کے راضی حق کو حقدارِ جِناں بن جائیے

If possible, buy 12 booklets titled ‘ The Dawn of Blessings ’ and 112 pamphlets or at least 12 pamphlets titled ‘12 Madani pearls of Sag-e-Madinah for celebrating the Meelad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ from Maktaba -tul-Madinah and distribute them especially to the leaders of the organizations who organize Meelad gatherings. During the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, donate 1200 PKR or, if not possible, 112 PKR or at least 12 PKR to some Sunni scholar (only adults should do so). You may also donate this money to the Imam, Muazzin or caretaker of your Masjid; it is better to make an intention to continue this good service on a monthly basis.

It is better to donate the money on a Friday because the reward of every good deed increases by 70 times on a Friday. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The cassettes of Bayanaat (Sunnah-inspiring speeches) released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah have played a vital role in reforming the lives of many people. Some fortunate people amongst you may have also associated themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami by virtue of listening to Sunnah-inspiring speeches of these cassettes; CD’s etc. Therefore, the act of sending these cassettes and VCDs/DVDs to people is a great service to Islam and is a means of earning enormous rewards. Therefore, if possible, sell out at least 12 cassettes or VCDs/DVDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches every week or every month. If generous Islamic brothers distribute them for fee, it will be excellent. By virtue of the celebration of Meelad, distribute as many cassettes and VCDs/DVDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches as you can and thus take part in the propagation of Islam.

On the occasions of weddings, gift a booklet or a Bayan cassette/VCD/ DVD along with the wedding card. Discard the tradition of Eid cards and instil the tradition of the distribution of booklets etc. in its place so that the money being spent can also help in the propagation of Islam. People send me expensive Eid cards, which saddens my heart instead of making it happy. If only people spent their hard-earned money in the promotion of religion instead of Eid cards! Furthermore, the glittering powder on these cards also causes an inconvenience.

اُنکے در پے پلنے والا اپنا آپ جواب

کوئی غریب نواز تو کوئی داتا لگتا ہے

In big cities, every ‘Alaqa`ee [regional] Nigran should hold glorious Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat at different Masajid for the first 12 days of Rabi’-ul-Awwal daily (responsible Islamic sisters should hold Ijtima’aat in their homes). If possible, everyone should attend all the Ijtima’aat whilst waving green flags in Rabi’-ul-Awwal.

لب پر نعتِ رسولِ اکرم ہاتھوں میں پرچم

دیوانہ سرکار کا کتنا پیارا لگتا ہے

Perform Ghusl (ritual bath) in the evening of the 11 th or on the 12 th night of Rabi’-ul-Awwal . If possible, buy everything new, for example, white clothes, an Islamic ‘Imamah (turban), bandana, Islamic cap, white shawl for covering the head, brown shawl for covering yourself, Miswak, handkerchief, slippers, rosary bead, ‘a small bottle of Itr (perfume), wrist watch, pen, Qafilah pad etc. in order to celebrate this Eid of Eids with the intention of reverence. (Islamic sisters should also buy new things according to their needs, if possible).

آئی نئی حکومت سکّہ نیا چلے گا

عالَم نے رنگ بدلا صبحِ شبِ وِلادت

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today, we have had the privilege of listening to the Madani pearls about celebrating the blessed Meelad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ By virtue of celebrating the blessed birth of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in the dream, the young son of the person namely ‘Ibraheem’ was blessed with the closeness to his deceased father in Jannah.

§ The night of blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is superior even to the night of Qadr [Layla-tul-Qadr].

§ In order to give thanks for the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, doing the Zikr of Meelad and sitting in the form of Halqah are the Sunnah of Sahabah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم .

§ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم becomes pleased with those who celebrate the Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ By virtue of the blessing of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is attained.

§ By virtue of the blessing of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, mercy and blessings are descended upon the home.

§ By virtue of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, peace and safety prevails all year round.

§ By virtue of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, there will be blessings in one’s sustenance, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ We will celebrate Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with great excitement and enthusiasm within the limits of Shari’ah.

جب تَلک یہ چاند تارے جِھلمِلاتے جائیں گے تب تَلک جشنِ وِلادت ہم مناتے جائیں گے

اُن کے عاشق نور کی شمعیں جلاتے جائیں گے جبکہ حاسد دِل جلاتے سٹپٹاتے جائیں گے

حشر تک جشنِ وِلادت ہم مناتے جائیں گے مرحبا کی دُھوم یارو! ہم مچاتے جائیں گے

ذِکرِ مِیلادِ مبارک کیسے چھوڑیں ہم بھلا جن کا کھاتے ہیں اُنہِیں کے گِیت گاتے جائیں گے

§ The celebration of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will bring us salvation from the Hell.

§ The celebration of Meelad -e- Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will become the source of goodness in the world and the Hereafter.

§ The celebration of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will earn us respect and blessing.

§ The celebration of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will bring about the solution to the problems.

§ The celebration of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will lead us to Jannah.

§ By virtue of the celebration of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we will receive mercy.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the privilege to celebrate Eid Meelad-un-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with great devotion and love!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! At the end of the Bayan, I would like to have the privilege to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of walking with the intention of acting upon Sunnahs:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah 37:

وَ لَا تَمۡشِ فِی الۡاَرۡضِ مَـرَ حًا ۚ

اِنَّکَ لَنۡ تَخۡرِقَ الۡاَرۡضَ وَ لَنۡ تَبۡلُغَ الۡجِبَالَ طُوۡلًا ﴿۳۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you reach height of the mountains. (Part 15, Bani Israel, Ayah 37)

2. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking arrogantly]. He was sunk

1. into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

2. When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

3. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in surprise, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill.

4. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered.

5. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise.

6. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

7. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

