Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

The Great Eminence of

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَنۡهُ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi ﷺ

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Allah Almighty stated: O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! ‘ مَنْ صَلَّى عَلَيْكَ صَلَّيْتُ عَلَيْهِ ومَنْ سَلَّمَ عَلَيْكَ سَلَّمْتُ عَلَيْهِ ’ i.e. I will send Durood upon the one who sends Salat upon you, and I will send Salam upon the one who sends Salam upon you. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 1, pp. 407, Hadees 1664)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are among the best of people. Whenever we speak of them, it is Fard (obligatory) upon us to speak of them with goodness. Disrespecting any companion is a heretical approach, misguidance, and an action that makes one deserving of the Hellfire, as having malice against them is in fact having malice against the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . All blessed companions are dwellers of Paradise. They will not even get to hear the slightest bit of noise of Hell and will always remain surrounded with their desired blessings. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 254)

Books fully mention the excellence, praise, noble character, righteous mannerism and firm belief of these sacred people. Moreover, they had been given the glad tidings of forgiveness, eternal rewards of the Hereafter, and pleasure of Allah Almighty within this world. Therefore, it is stated in part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah no 100:

رَّضِیَ اللّٰہُ عَنۡہُمۡ وَ رَضُوۡ ا عَنۡہُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him.

18 th Zul-Hijjah is the day of martyrdom of a great personality among the blessed companions, the third caliph, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Today, in the Bayan of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, we will hear about his honour and dignity. Let’s listen to a parable regarding his virtues.

An unrivalled parable

It is reported that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab and Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا were busy doing some work ordered by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in the meanwhile Salat-ul-‘Asr drew near. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to lead the Salah. Upon this, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘You are more deserving than me for this, as the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given you preference over others and praised you.’ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I will not

surpass you because I have heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘How great is ‘Usman! He is my son-in-law and the husband of my two daughters. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has gathered my Noor (illumination) in him.’

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you at all because I have heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has completed Islam through ‘Umar.’ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Even angels feel shy of ‘Usman.’ Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then stated, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the Deen complete through ‘Umar and honoured Muslims.’ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Usman will gather the Glorious Quran and he is the beloved of the Lord Almighty (عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘How great is ‘Umar! He looks after widows and orphans, and brings food for them at the time when people are asleep.’ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted forgiveness to ‘Usman who prepared the army of Jaysh-ul-‘Usra (Battle of Tabook).’ Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I will not surpass you because I have heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم supplicating in this manner, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant Islam dignity through ‘Umar Bin Khattab (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ).’ Moreover, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named you Farooq and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has distinguished between truth and falsehood through you.’

When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to know of this event, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم prayed for both of them and praised their courtesy and excellence of manners. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 313)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Through this parable, not only do we come to know about the deep passion of reverence and devotion of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had for each other, but we also come to know about the highly exalted rank and status of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam and Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . Furthermore, we also obtain this great Madani pearl that when the blessed companions show respect and reverence towards one another’s rank, then we should also abundantly propagate the glory and eminence of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ; and not only should we have love for them in our hearts, but should also teach the respect and love for the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم to our children as well. One great way of this is to relay the parables and stories of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم to our children and tell them about their life-history, biography and character as well as persuade them to follow the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Maktaba-tul-Madinah (the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami) is privileged to publish a 695-page book ‘ Allah Walon ki Baatayn (volume 1).’ This remarkable book contains brief biographies of 97 blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم along with innumerable fragrant Madani pearls. Purchase this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ through it, we will try to follow in the footsteps of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی by learning about their blessed character. Similarly, another beautiful publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah is ‘ Karamaat-e-Sahabah ’. Read this remarkable book too. Likewise, there is another great book of Maktaba-tul-Madina, namely ‘ Khulafa-e-Rashideen ’, on the Seerah of the blessed companions.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The ranks of the Khulafa-e-Rashideen

Dear Islamic sisters! The way in which the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most superior among all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, similarly, the rank of the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most superior among the companions of all the other blessed Ambiya. And among the blessed companions, the Khulafa-e-Rashideen (i.e. Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq, Ameer-ul- Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani and Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are the most superior. (Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2 pp. 5)

The su periority of his lineage

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is honoured to trace his lineage back to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the 5 th descendant at Sayyiduna ‘Abd-e-Manaaf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . Thus, after Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali Shayr-e-Khuda کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, the lineage of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is traced back to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the least number of descents, which is only five. (Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2 pp. 5)

His blessed name and Kunyah (patronymic appellation)

In both eras, the pre-Islamic period (the age of ignorance) and the Islamic age, his name remained as ‘Usman’. (Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 5)

In the pre-Islamic era of ignorance, the Kunyah (patronymic appellation) of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was ‘Abu ‘Amr’ and later on when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ got married to the beloved and blessed daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed them with a luminous son, namely ‘Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ ’, then Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ kept the Kunyah ‘Abu ‘Abdullah’, after the name of his beloved son. Then another son, Sayyiduna ‘Amr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, was born and he kept his Kunyah after his name; ‘Abu ‘Amr’. Both Kunyahs are famous but ‘Abu ‘Amr’ is more famous.

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 39; Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 6)

T he era of ignorance and excellences of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was regarded amongst the noble and honoured figures of his tribe, even in the era of ignorance. His grace overcame his wrath. It was for this reason that he would converse very politely and was an extremely kind and affectionate person. Despite having an awe-inspiring personality and being extremely rich, he was an embodiment of modesty. His

blessed personality was free from all evil practices; in fact, even in the age of ignorance, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was endowed with such great virtues and characteristics that even the people of Quraysh used to love him immensely. Therefore, this devotional love of the Quraysh developed and grew to such an extent that it became exemplary, and in order to express their love, mothers used to say to their children while making them go to sleep, ‘ اُحِبُّكَ وَالرَّحۡـمٰنُ حُبَّ قُرَيۡشِ عُثۡمَان ’ i.e. ‘ My Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ and I love you like the people of Quraysh love (Sayyiduna) ‘Usman-e-Ghani (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ).’

(Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 39, pp. 251)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

His blessed appearance

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was a man of an extremely graceful appearance and had an immensely awe-inspiring personality. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was neither too short nor too tall; rather he had a medium height. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ had a very handsome face with a pinkish complexion. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ had large cheeks, long ears, beaming and beautiful teeth, a broad chest, wide shoulders, strong calves, whereas the blessed arms were long. Curly long hair on his blessed head were in conformity with the Sunnah style that would fall below the ears. The blessed beard of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was also thick like the blessed beards of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam and Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . He had thin skin which was covered with golden hair. Despite having such a handsome and awe-inspiring personality, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was still an embodiment of modesty. (At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 42; Al-Isaabah, vol. 4, pp. 377; Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 6)

Despite being extremely rich, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ would follow the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in wearing clothes rather than wearing lavish clothes. Moreover, love and devotion also demands one to adopt the Sunnahs of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in one’s appearance too.

Following the Sunnah in clothing as well

Sayyiduna Salamah Bin Akwa’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ narrated, ‘The Tahband (a large piece of cloth wrapped around the waist) of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ would come to the middle of his calves and he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ would mention the reason for it that ‘ هٰكَذَا كَانَتۡ اِزۡرَةُ صَاحِبِيۡ ’ i.e. The Tahband of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also be like this (i.e. until the middle of his calves) .’ (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 85)

Dear Islamic sisters! How excellent was the passion of Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ for following the Sunnah that he would even follow the blessed Sunnah of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in clothing as well. We should also wear clothes according to Shar’iah. Moreover, not only should we avoid fashionable tight clothing, but we should also persuade others kindly and affectionately towards acting upon the Sunnahs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let us listen to some titles of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ along with the reasons for those titles.

First title; Zun-Nurayn

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is also famously known as Zun-Nurayn (i.e. the possessor of the two Noors). The famous reason for this title is that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave two of his honourable and blessed daughters’ hands, Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, in marriage one after the other to ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . It is for this reason that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is called Zun-Nurayn. (Tahzeeb-ul-Asma, pp. 453) ]

Second title; Jami’-ul-Quran (the gatherer of the Holy Quran)

One of his titles is also ‘Jami’-ul-Quran’. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, with the suggestion of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, collected the manuscripts of the Glorious Quran from different places during the

period of his own caliphate. However, there were still three tasks left to be completed. First of all, copying all the text from all the gathered copies to be copied into one manuscript, then sending copies of the same manuscript to all the big cities of the Islamic countries and lastly, to instruct everyone to recite it in the dialect of the Quraysh. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ chose Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to carry out these three blessed tasks. It is for this reason that Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is called ‘Jami’-ul-Quran’ (the gatherer of the Holy Quran). (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 26, pp. 452)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Third title; ‘ مُجَهِّزُ جَيۡشِ الۡعُسۡرَة ’

One of the titles of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also ‘ مُجَهِّزُ جَيۡشِ الۡعُسۡرَة ’. It means the helper of the army of lesser means. The Islamic army which was prepared on the occasion of the expedition of Tabook is called ‘Jaysh-ul-Usra’; this is because this battle took place at an extremely difficult location and during the hard times of searing heat of the scorching summer season.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin Khabbaab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated: I was present in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who was motivating the Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for ‘Jaysh-e-‘Usrah’ [i.e. the battle of Tabook]. Sayyiduna ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ stood up and said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I take it upon myself to donate 100 camels along with saddles and other related provisions.’ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then resumed his inspirational efforts. Sayyiduna ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ stood up again and said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I bear the responsibility of contributing 200 camels with all the provisions.’ The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then resumed his motivational efforts once again. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up once again and said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I take the responsibility of [donating] 300 camels with all the provisions.’ Upon hearing this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became extremely happy. That is why,

he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is referred to as ‘ مُجَهِّزُ جَيۡشِ الۡعُسۡرَة ’ i.e. the helper of the army of lesser means. (Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 5, pp. 391, Hadees 3720)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! These days, we see some people showing their intention to donate when they see others spending in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . However, when the time comes for handing over the money as per their commitment, they find it extremely difficult to meet their commitment. Some do not even give the amount that they committed to. May we be sacrificed upon the generosity of the Holy Rasool’s beloved, ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ, who donated more than what he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ announced.

Commenting on the above-mentioned Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Bear in mind that this was (only) his announcement, but when the time of delivering came, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ gave 950 camels, 50 horses and 1000 Ashrafis (gold coins). Later on, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ donated another 10,000 Ashrafis.’

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further stated, ‘Note that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ initially committed 100 camels, then 200 more and then an additional 300 camels, i.e. 600 camels in total.’

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 395)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Fourth title, ‘Sahib-ul-Hijratayn’

Dear Islamic sisters! The way Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to spend his wealth abundantly for the propagation of Islam, similarly, he never lagged behind to present himself for religious services. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is among those few companions who migrated in the path of Allah Almighty twice; once towards Abyssinia and the second time

towards Madinah Munawwarah. That’s why he is also called ‘Sahib-ul-Hijratayn’, meaning the one who migrated twice.

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 40; Asad-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 1, pp. 749)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has been bestowed with such great titles in view of his distinguished and distinctive personality. Undoubtedly, the more excellent characteristics one possesses, the more titles are granted and that person is also remembered in a more graceful manner accordingly. Having been bestowed with so many titles is also a sign of the dignity and eminence of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani in the light of blessed Ahadees

Dear Islamic sisters! It is normally observed that a servant remains occupied in praising and glorifying her owner or master due to her bestowments, but how great and marvellous is it when an owner also praises the qualities and virtues of her servant and expresses the devotional relationship that she has established with her! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also regarded amongst those fortunate companions who had been conveyed with glad tidings by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on various occasions. At times, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ received the glad tidings of Paradise from the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and at times, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared him to be his companion of Paradise. At times, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted him the title of a perfect modest person and at times, the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم announced that his (i.e. Usman-e-Ghani’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) intercession will bless people with Jannah. Let us listen to four blessed sayings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in relation to the excellences of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

1. ‘Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) is from me and I am from ‘Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ). (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 39, pp. 102)

2. Every Nabi will have a companion in Paradise and my companion will be ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ). (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 39, pp. 104)

3. By the intercession of ‘Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ), 70,000 such people will enter Jannah without accountability upon whom Hell would have become Wajib. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 39, pp. 122)

4. Modesty is from Iman and the most modest one from my Ummah is ‘Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ). (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 39, pp.92)

Dear Islamic sisters! What can be said about the modesty of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, that even the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would feel shy (حیا) in front of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a man of distinctive characteristics, to the extent that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained far away from various evils, even during the pre-Islamic period of ignorance.

Commenting on some of his own qualities, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ relates, ‘I have neither sung any useless poetry and nor wished ever to do so. I never drank alcohol during the pre-Islamic era of ignorance and neither after embracing Islam. Moreover, since I have taken Bay’at (pledge) at the blessed hands of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I have not touched my private parts with that hand since then.’

(Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 39, pp. 225)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further states, ‘I take a ritual bath in an enclosed room and fold my hands and limbs due to having humility from Allah عزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, Hadees 5071)

Dear Islamic sisters! This was the modesty of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, whereas the miserable state of our immodesty and shamelessness is such that some people watch obscene scenes with keen interest, be in seclusion or with the whole family. Moreover, now مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ sins have become so common that various sins are committed easily through the means of mobile phones and the internet. Many people waste their precious

time by drowning themselves into the ocean of sins through social media in search of progress and worldly information, thinking to keep themselves up to date all the time. At marriage ceremonies and other occasions, immoral activities take place in which there is mixing of men and women and people celebrate such events with great fun and festivities.

Most houses depict the picture of cinemas and concerts; ignoring modesty completely, unveiled women are seen roaming around stores where men also let go of modesty completely and stare at them as if it is their right to do so. In short, our society is quickly submerging into the blaze of obscenity, vulgarity and immodesty, and especially pushing our new generation into moral and ethical decline and evil practices! Swearing, slandering, having ill opinions, backbiting, tale-telling, lying, unlawful possession of someone else’s wealth, murder, calling Muslims bad names, alcohol, gambling, theft, robbery, the giving and taking of interest and bribes, disobeying parents, breaches of trust, arrogance and pride, jealousy and ostentation, love for fame, stinginess and vanity etc., are being committed fearlessly in our society today. It seems that modesty has nothing to do with us.

Associate yourselves with the Madani environment

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to instil the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in your hearts and adopt modesty, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Fill out the Madani In’amaat booklet while performing ‘Fikr-e-Madinah’ to improve your Hereafter and lead a successful life.

In one Madani Muzakarah, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه stated a Madani pearl in relation to submitting the Madani In’amaat booklet, ‘Fill the boxes of the Madani In’amaat booklet while performing Fikr-e-Madinah and submit it to the responsible Islamic brother on the first of the new Madani [Islamic] month; do not wait for the 10 th .’ Attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima and watch the highly acclaimed 100% Islamic channel, ‘Madani Channel’ of Dawat e Islami yourself as well as persuading others to do so too.

“ Ghar Dars” (Home Dars) one of the 8 Madani activities

Other than that, actively participate in the 8 Madani activities by associating yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. One Madani activity out of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is Chowk Dars. To develop a Madani environment in home, deliver or listen to Dars of Faizan e Sunnat at least once daily (without Na-Mahram). Dars can also be delivered from the booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ (Duration 7 minutes). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by the blessings of Ghar Dars, sawab (reward) of acquiring knowledge of Deen is attained. At the same time, Ghar Dars is a means to reform inner and outer manners and also serves as an excellent upbringing. Therefore, all Islamic sisters should make the intention to start Ghar Dars and remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by blessing of Home-Dars, one earns reward of gaining Islamic knowledge, Similarly, Home-Dars is an excellent source of shaping up spiritual and apparent characters too and facilitates to acquire good manners.

For persuasion, listen to a Madani parable of Home-Dars and sway out of joy.

I got peace of heart

The following is a summarised statement by an Islamic sister from Punjab (Pakistan): I already had a religious environment in my home as my father was a Muazzin [1] of a Masjid and my elder brother and sister were already affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami. However, my mind was filled with worldly desires and my Nafs was audaciously fond of sins. I had a habit of missing my S alah. One day, some Islamic sisters came to my house in order to invite me to a Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. Their affectionate manner melted my heart and I made an intention to attend the Ijtima’.

When I attended, I heard an Islamic sister delivering a heart-trembling speech about the ‘punishments of missing S alah’ that shook me up. I made a firm intention that ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ from this day on, I would not miss any single S alah’. Then, with the arrival of Rabi’-un-Noor, the season of blessings, I attended a Milad congregation where I heard an Islamic sister deliver a speech about the ‘Devastation of Television’ [1] . My hair stood on end and tears gushed from my eyes. Since that day onwards until the present day I have been busy striving to reform myself remaining affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani buying water for Muslims

It is reported that when the Muhajireen migrated to Madina-tul-Munawwarah, the salty water there did not suit the Muslims. There was a spring of sweet water called ‘Roomah’ which was the property of a person from the tribe of Bani Ghaffar. He used to sell one full leather sack of water for one ‘Mud’ (an old type of measurement in weight). The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Sell this spring to me in exchange of a heavenly spring.’ He humbly said, ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! This is the only source of livelihood for me and my children. I cannot afford to do so.’

When Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ heard this news, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ purchased that spring from its owner for 35,000 Dirhams. Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ approached the blessed court of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said, ‘ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰهِ اَتَجۡعَلُ لِي مِثۡلَ الَّذِي جَعَلۡتَه ٗ لَه ٗ عَيۡنًا فِي الۡجَنَّةِ اِنِ اشۡتَرَيۡتُهَا ؟ ’ i.e. Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! As you were blessing that person with a heavenly spring, if I buy this spring, will you bless me with a heavenly spring?

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied ‘Yes’. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly stated, ‘I bought this spring and donated it to the Muslims.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 2, pp. 41)

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ donated the entire spring in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ at the time when the Muslims were suffering extreme shortage of water. If we see a Muslim in trouble or difficulty and we are capable of fulfilling her needs and extending a helping hand towards her, we should endeavour to do so. Very fortunate is the person who helps the needy, supports the poor & destitute, sympathises and removes the distress of the grief-stricken people. Because the one who shows mercy to the creation [of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ], Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also showers the rain of His mercy and blessing upon her which makes her life colourful, prosperous and full of happiness. Let us listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in relation to this:

1. Whoever removes a worldly troubles of a believer, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remove one of his troubles on the Day of Judgement; whoever grants ease to a needy person in this world, Allah Almighty will grant him much ease in this world and the Hereafter; whoever conceals the secret of a Muslim in this world, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep his secrets concealed in this world and the Hereafter; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to help His bondsman as long as the bondsman continues to help his brother. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zikr, pp. 1447, Raqm 2699)

2. Whoever strives to fulfil the need of his brother, this action is better for him than performing I’tikaf for ten years. And whoever performs I’tikaf for one day seeking Allah’s pleasure, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ places three trenches between him and Hell; and the distance between two trenches is greater than the distance between the East and the West.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 263, Raqm 8)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us also to look after our Islamic sisters and remove their difficulties!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Noble Rasool ﷺ quenched the thirst (of others)

Dear Islamic sisters! Whoever fulfils the needs of her Islamic sister becomes the beloved servant of Allah Almighty and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ fulfils her needs from the unseen. As Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ devoted all his life in helping the poor, fulfilling their needs and removing their difficulties, therefore, when he faced trials & tribulations and water was denied to him, then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself came and quenched the thirst of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that during the days when the rebels had laid siege to the blessed house of ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ, they had cut off the water supply to his blessed house, leaving him without even a single drop of water. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would suffer from intense thirst. I went to see him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ looked at me and said, ‘ مَرۡحَبًا بِاَخِيۡ ’ i.e. O my brother! Welcome . Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘O Abdullah Bin Salam! I saw the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through this window last night.’ The Most Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said in a very sympathetic manner, ‘O ‘Usman (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ)! Have these people imprisoned and subjected you to the pangs of thirst by denying you water?’ I humbly answered, ‘Yes’. Upon that, the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immediately lowered a bucket towards me filled with water. I started drinking from it to the extent that my thirst was quenched with that water. I can still feel the soothing effect and coolness of that water in my chest and between both of my shoulders. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said to me, ‘ اِنۡ شِئۡتَ نُصِرۡتَ عَلَيۡهِمۡ وَ اِنۡ شِئۡتَ اَفۡطَرۡتَ عِنۡدَنَا ’ i.e. ‘ I f you wish, I will help you against these people; and if you like, you may come to me and open your

Sawm in my company.’ I preferred to open my Sawm in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated that after this [conversation], I departed from there) and on the exact same day, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was martyred by the rebels.

(Kitab-ul-Manamaat, vol. 3, pp. 74, Hadees 109)

‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated that, ‘According to what ‘Allamah Ibn-e-Baatees رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, the incident of beholding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not take place in Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani’s dream; rather it took place while he was awake.’

(Al-Haawi lil Fatawa lis-Suyuti, vol. 2, pp. 315)

Supporter of the helpless; our Nabi

Dear Islamic sisters! We come to know through this parable that all the circumstances of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were apparent upon the Most Dignified Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by the divine bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

We also come to know that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also helps those who are helpless; it is for this reason he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ اِنۡ شِئۡتَ نُصِرۡتَ عَلَيۡ ه هِمۡ ’ i.e. I f you wish, shall I help you against these people?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Informed about the place of his burial

Dear Islamic sisters! Just how Allah Almighty grants power to His chosen servants to help people, similarly, He Almighty bestows the knowledge of the unseen among those righteous personalities to whomsoever He Almighty wills. It is narrated that Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ once visited that part of ‘Jannat-ul-Baqi’, the holy graveyard of Madina-tul-Munawwarah, which is known as ‘Hash-e-Kawkab ’ (i.e. the place of the garden of an Ansari

person). He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ stood over there at a spot and said, ‘Soon, a righteous person will be buried here.’

Therefore, sometime later, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was martyred and the rebels created such a clamour and disagreement at his funeral that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ could not be buried near the blessed Raudah (of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and nor in that part of the cemetery of Jannat-ul-Baqi’ which was the graveyard of other illustrious Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ; instead, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was laid to rest at a place that is situated afar and is known as ‘Hash-e-Kawkab.’ It was such a place that no one could even imagine about burying anyone over there as no grave was present in that area until that time.

(Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 96; Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 3, pp. 41)

Knowledge of the unseen and Awliya of Allah

Dear Islamic sisters! Through the above-mentioned narration, we have learnt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the Awliya with the knowledge about the facts like when and where will they pass away and where their graves will be. Knowledge regarding the outcome of any activity and knowing future happenings is called the Knowledge of the Unseen. It happened exactly as Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated. Now ponder! When a blessed companion of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is giving information of the knowledge of the unseen with divine bestowal, then imagine the amount of knowledge of the unseen Allah Almighty would have blessed His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with. Therefore, it is stated in the Glorious Quran:

وَ مَا هُوَ عَلَى الْغَیْبِ بِضَنِیْنٍۚ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And this Prophet is not miserly upon the hidden. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 24)

From the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, we have come to know that the Rasool of Rahmah, Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reveals the news of the unseen to people, and it is obvious that only such a person can state and share things who knows it himself as well. (Khofnak Jadugar, pp. 13)

Imam ‘Allamah Ahmad Bin Muhammad Khateeb Qastalani Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of the knowledge of the unseen. This fact was very famous amongst the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and everyone used to talk about it. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 3, pp. 91)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami has 104 departments. One of them is Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen. The purpose of this Majlis is to make Islamic sisters aware of important Shar’i rulings on Ghusl and shrouding, train the Islamic sisters of Majlis from time to time, carry out all funeral and burial rites of dead bodies of Muslims through trained Islamic sisters and also to persuade the relatives of the deceased to have patience. As such, in case of anybody’s death please contact the concerned Islamic sister of Majlis Tajheez-o- Takfeen living in your area for the Ghusl and shrouding of the deceased.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Miswak

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of using a Miswak, from the booklet namely, ‘ 163 Madani Pearls ’, written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat. First of all, two sayings of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ Two Rak’aat offered after using Miswak are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without [using] Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 18)

٭ Make use of the Miswak necessary upon yourselves, because in this lies the cleanliness of the mouth and a cause for (attaining) the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 438, Hadees 5869)

٭ Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that Miswak has 10 qualities: (Some of them are that) It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, removes phlegm, removes bad smell of the mouth, it is in accordance with the Sunnah, the angels become happy and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

٭ Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘Four things increase intelligence: Abstaining from useless talks, the use of Miswak, the company of pious people and acting upon the knowledge one possesses. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 27)

٭ On page 288 of the first volume of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned that the honourable scholars have said, ‘Whoever routinely uses Miswak will be blessed with the good fortune of reciting the Kalimah (fundamental declaration of faith) at the time of death, and whoever consumes drugs will not be blessed with the Kalimah at the time of death.

٭ A Miswak should be from Peelu, Zaytoon (olive), or Neem tree having a bitter taste.

٭ The thickness of a Miswak should be equal to that of the little finger.

٭ A Miswak should not be longer than one hand span. Otherwise, Satan sits on it.

٭ The strands of a Miswak should be soft. Otherwise they cause space between teeth and gums.

٭ If a Miswak is fresh, then excellent. Otherwise soak it in a glass of water to make it soft.

٭ It is appropriate to trim the strands of Miswak every day because they are beneficial for as long as they have some bitterness.

٭ Brush your teeth horizontally with Miswak.

٭ Whenever you use Miswak, use it three times.

٭ And rinse it after each time.

٭ Hold a Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains at the bottom, the middle three fingers remain on top of it while the thumb remains at the top (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

٭ First brush (with a Miswak) the upper teeth of the right side and then the left. Thereafter, clean the lower teeth starting from the right side and then the left.

٭ Using a Miswak whilst holding it in the fist poses the risk of piles.

٭ Miswak is a Sunnah to be performed before Wudu, but if one has a foul smell in the mouth, then using Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah.

(Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

٭ Do not throw away a used Miswak as it is an instrument used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea after tying it to a stone or something heavy, etc.

For further details about the excellence and benefits of using Miswak, please study the booklet ‘ Fazaail-e-Miswak ’ written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

