Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Victory in battle by virtue of Miswak . 4

Best path . 6

Sign of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .. 6

Bought a Miswak for a dinar [gold coin] . 6

Acted upon Sunnah at the time of demise . 7

Blessed Ahadees about the virtues of Miswak . 9

Angels place mouth on mouth . 12

10 virtues of Miswak . 12

Miswak is amongst the Sunnah of Deen [Islam] . 12

Miswak is most important thing . 12

Using Miswak for women? . 13

Weekly Madani Muzakarah . 13

The one who values Miswak . 14

Medical advantages of Miswak . 15

Miswak is a cure for every disease . 15

Miswak improves fluency of speech . 15

Three things improve memory . 15

Cure of mouth blisters . 16

Hereafter benefits of Miswak . 17

Worldly benefits of Miswak . 18

Scientific benefits of Miswak . 19

Do you know how to use Miswak properly? . 20

Madani pearls pertaining to Miswak . 21

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 24

2. All sins forgiven .. 24

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 25

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 25

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 25

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 26

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 26

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 26

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Using Miswak is Sunnah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Shaykh Majduddeen Feerozabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When you sit in a gathering and recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will designate an angel that will keep you from backbiting. When you depart from that gathering and recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, the angel will keep others from backbiting against you. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 278)

اُف وہ رہِ سنگلاخ، آہ! یہ پا شاخ شاخ اے مِرے مُشکل کُشا! تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Victory in battle by virtue of Miswak

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه divided his life into three parts. One year he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to perform Hajj, one year he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to participate in battle and one year he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would give Dars of Islamic knowledge. Once he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه participated in a battle in which Muslims were not able to conquer the fort of unbelievers. Worried about it, he fell asleep and saw in a dream that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: O ‘Abdullah! What are you worried about? Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! We are trying our best but unable to conquer this fort. I am worried about it. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Perform Wudu with Miswak. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه woke from the dream; performed Wudu with Miswak and ordered Salah-offering people to use Miswak.

When the security guards of the fort saw Ghazis (title of a Muslim fighting against non-Muslims) using Miswak, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ put a fear into their hearts. They went downstairs and told the chiefs of the fort: The army down there seems to be man-eaters; they are sharpening their teeth so that they can eat us after defeating. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ put this terror into their hearts and they sent a messenger to Muslims with a message: Do you want wealth or life? Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: [We] neither want money nor life; you all embrace Islam, you will get salvation. By virtue of the blessing of this Sunnah they all embraced Islam and became Muslims.

Dear Islamic brothers! By virtue of the blessing of one Sunnah [use of Miswak] not only did Muslims achieve the victory, but the enemies also embraced Islam and became Muslims. No doubt, our victory and success lie in the beautiful ways and Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If we want to regain the lost glory and dignity and the dominance of Islam, we will have to practice every Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For making [Muslims] obey His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 21 of Surah Al-Ahzaab:

لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِیْ رَسُوْلِ اللّٰهِ اُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed following the Noble Rasool of Allah is better for you. (Part 21, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 21)

Mufti Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Obey him well and help the religion, Islam. Do not stop supporting the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and be patient on troubles and follow the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . These acts are better.

Regarding this blessed Ayah, on page 671, in Tafseer Noor-ul-‘Irfan, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It has become obvious that the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a role model for all humans, covering every aspect of life. It may also signify that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a model of His Divinity. A skilled worker uses all his skills on the sample. It has become clear that the successful life is the one which is spent by following in the footsteps of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If we perform all of our deeds by following in the footsteps of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so all these deeds will become worship. A sample has five things: (1) It is completed from every perspective. (2) It is kept safe from external dust. (3) It is not hidden. (4) The manufacturer gets pleased with the one who praises it. (5) He gets displeased when someone points out faults in it.

These five things are found in the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Islamic scholars have said: The true believer who possesses these attributes—obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, expectation from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in abundance, he will have a very good time in the world and the Hereafter, because he will be blessed with patience on troubles and thankfulness in comfort.

Best path

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself said: ‘ خَیْرُ الْھُدیٰ ھُدیٰ مُحَمَّدٍ ’ The best path is the path of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).

(Al-Ihsan bittarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 1, pp. 106, Hadees 10)

Sign of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Practising Sunnah is the source of having complete faith [Iman] and attaining the closeness to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannah. Every Muslim will desire to attain these blessings. Therefore they should study attentively the sayings, deeds, circumstances and blessed life history of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and should spend their life by obeying him and acting upon his Sunnah.

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin ‘Abdullah Tustari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The sign of loving Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to love the Holy Quran and the sign of loving the Holy Quran is to love the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; the sign of loving the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to love his blessed Sunnah and the sign of loving blessed Sunnah is to love the Hereafter; and the sign of loving the Hereafter is to bear enmity towards the world. (Tafseer Qurtubi, vol. 4, pp. 60, 61)

Bought a Miswak for a dinar [gold coin]

Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would love very much the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would not even care for their possession in order to perform them.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Once Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt the need of a Miswak during Wudu. He looked for it, but could not find it. Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه bought a Miswak for a dinar (one coin of gold) and used it. Some people said: You have spent so much! Who pays so much for a Miswak? Should one spend so much for a Miswak? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Undoubtedly, this world along with all that it contains do not worth even that of the wing of a mosquito in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . What will I answer if, on the Day of Judgement, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

asks me, ‘Why did you miss the Sunnah (Miswak) of My Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ What will I answer if, on the Day of Judgment, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ asks me, ‘Whatever wealth and possession I gave you was not even equal to a wing of a mosquito [before Me], so why didn’t you spend such insignificant wealth on accomplishing that great Sunnah (Miswak)?’ (Lawaqa-ul-Anwaar, pp. 38)

یا مصطَفٰے! گناہوں کی عادَتیں نکالو

جذبہ مجھے عطا ہو سُنّت کی پیروی کا

الله! حُبِّ دنیا سے تُو مجھے بچانا

سائل ہوں یا خدا میں عشقِ محمدی کا

Acted upon Sunnah at the time of demise

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would strictly follow Sunnah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would do every work according to Sunnah, even at the time of his demise he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not miss Sunnah. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Ali Tameemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I asked the servant [Sayyiduna Ja’far Bin Nusayr Bakraan Daynoori رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: What did you see in Sayyiduna Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه at the time of his demise? He replied: Sayyiduna Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه told me: I had to pay debt of one dirham to a distressed person, but I did not know him. I have given Sadaqah of thousands of dirhams on behalf of him [lender]. I have no other worry greater than this.

He further said: Help me perform Wudu for Salah. I made him perform Wudu, but forgot the Khilal of the beard. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had lost his voice that time, that’s why he held my hand and made it enter my beard (so that I could make Khilal of his beard.), then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. Having mentioned it, Sayyiduna Ja’far started weeping and said: What do you say about that person who did not miss any of the Sunan of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even in the last stage of his life? (Risalah Qushayriyyah, pp. 339)

مِلے سُنّتوں کا جذبہ میرے بھائی چھوڑیں مولٰی سبھی داڑھیاں مُنڈانا مدنی مدینے والے

تِری سُنّتوں پہ چل کر مری رُوح جب نکل کر چلے تُو گلے لگانا مَدَنی مدینے والے

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and follow the Sunnah of Rasool regularly. Death throes could not reduce the enthusiasm and passion for acting upon Sunnah. That’s why they have attained such an exalted and elevated rank by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the Islamic world has accepted them their Imam and Muslims will continue to pay tributes to them.

On the Day of Judgment, a day will be equal to 50,000 years; the sky will break; the stars will drop; the moon and the sun will lose Noor [light]; the earth will be of copper; people will be emaciated due to the intensity of hunger; their tongue will dry due to thirst; they will be perspiring heavily; nobody will be solicitous about anyone; mother and father, son and daughter, brother and sister, husband and wife, friends, in short, no one will help each other. Under such circumstances, the fortunate people, who followed the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and acted upon the Sunnah which were being practised by very few people in the mortal worldly life of few days, so اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will be given good news of forgiveness and entrance to Paradise on the Judgment Day.

The blessed Hadees has been mentioned on page 55 of an 88-page book namely, ‘ Saya-e-‘Arsh kis kis ko Milay Ga ’ [Who will Get the Shade of Arsh?] published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e- Islami: Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly requested the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the valleys of Paradise? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: The one who revives my Sunnah and will remove the trouble of my distressed follower (Ummati), these Sunnahs will take him to Paradise after saving him from all the troubles.

خُلد میں ہوگا ہمارا داخِلہ اِس شان سے

یَا رَسُولَ الله کا نعرہ لگاتے جائیں گے

Blessed Ahadees about the virtues of Miswak

Dear Islamic brothers! Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Miswak means ‘rub’; it is an instrument of rubbing teeth. In Shari’ah, Miswak is a piece of wood that is used to clean teeth. It is Sunnah that Miswak should not be from a tree that produces fruit or flowers, but rather it should be from a tree having bitter taste. Thickness of Miswak should be equal to that of the little finger. It should not be longer than one’s hand span; it should be used to brush teeth horizontally, not vertically; a toothless person and women should move [clean their teeth with finger] a finger.

It is Mustahab for women to use Sakra or Missi (a tree bark) instead of Miswak; they should clean their teeth with a finger because their gums are weak. Using Miswak is a Sunnah on these occasions: During Wudu, before reciting the Holy Quran, when teeth become yellowish, when bad smell comes from the mouth due to being hungry, or being quiet for a long time, or due to being wakeful. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 274, 278)

Miswak is a very important Sunnah which has been highly emphasized to practise. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: No doubt, I have been commanded for Miswak so much that I fear lest a revelation is sent to me about Miswak.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 1, pp. 658, Hadees 2799)

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated: Once someone humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! This time Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام has taken much time to come to you? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Why should he not delay as you [people] sitting around me do not use Miswak, cut nails, trim moustache and clean the roots of your fingers. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 5, pp. 104, Hadees 2072)

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Use Miswak because Miswak has purification of the mouth and the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Whenever [Sayyiduna] Jibra`eel came to me, he advised me to use Miswak to such an extent that I feared lest it should become Fard for me and for my Ummah and if I had not had the fear of my Ummah’s struggle, I would have made the use of Miswak Fard for them and

undoubtedly, I use Miswak to such an extent that I feared lest I waste my front teeth.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 1186, Hadees 289)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated: [The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] would have made the use of Miswak Fard with every Wudu and in some narrations the word ‘Fard’ has also been found. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 341, Hadees 1238)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah and Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Khalid Juhani رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا have narrated: [The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] would have ordered to use Miswak with every Salah. (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 14, pp. 100, Hadees 22, 23)

i.e. [The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] would have made it Fard (mandatory), that is, there would have been no Salah without using [brushing teeth with] Miswak. It has been learnt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the one who commands, that is, it is up to him whether he makes [something] Fard or not. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, pp. 280)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Since I heard this saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I use Miswak before going to bed, after getting up and before eating a meal. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 278, Hadees 2516)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم used to keep Miswak on their ears and used to do [brush teeth with] Miswak before every Salah. (Bazl-ul-Majhood, vol. 3, pp. 1)

It is stated about Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Khalid Juhani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he used to come to Masjid with a Miswak on his ear as a pen is seen on the ear of a Munshee (clerk); whenever he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ offered Salah he used [brushing teeth with] Miswak first and then kept it at the same place.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 280)

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: We were asked to make promise to use [brush teeth with] Miswak regularly before performing every Wudu and offering every Salah, though if majority of us have to hang Miswak on a string around our necks or tie/hang it with an ‘Imamah provided that ‘Imamah is tied around the bandana. If a person is wearing a Topi, he

should tie ‘Imamah firmly around it and fix the Miswak in the ‘Imamah on the side of the left ear. (‘Imamah kay Fazaail, pp. 402)

Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: 4 things are amongst the Sunnahs of Ambiya: (1) Modesty (2) Applying fragrance (3) Miswak (4) Nikah [Islamic marriage].

Remember, here the number ‘4’ is not used to confine [the Sunan of Ambiya to only 4], but rather there are many other Sunan of Ambiya; these four are out of them. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 278)

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Whenever [Sayyiduna] Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام came to me (for teaching Sunnahs on behalf of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ), he asked me to use Miswak (due to his act of humbly saying it repeatedly] I feared lest I peel the front part of my mouth. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 123, Hadees 386)

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I asked you a lot about Miswak. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 406, Hadees 839) i.e. I have asked repeatedly and advised you in every way to use Miswak; sometimes I mentioned its religious advantages and sometimes worldly. Further, I have always practised it so that you always use Miswak too. It has been learnt that using [brushing teeth with] Miswak is not Fard, otherwise the manner of mentioning it would have been different.

It has been stated in an elaboration on a blessed Hadees: It has the goodness of the world and religion. Remember, here Miswak means a Muslim’s use of Miswak with the intention of worship; unbeliever’s [brushing teeth with] Miswak and the Miswak of the Muslims [who use it to clean their teeth] though will clean the mouth, but it will not become the means of attaining Allah’s pleasure. Further, though Miswak has both religious and worldly advantages, here only two advantages have been mentioned or because these two are very important or the remaining advantages are also included in these both. Cleanliness of the mouth strengthens the stomach and brings salvation from countless diseases. Best of all, if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased, then what deficiency is left? (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 277)

Angels place mouth on mouth

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When anyone of you stands at night to offer Salah, he should clean his teeth with a Miswak because when he recites the Quran an angel places his mouth on his and anything coming out of his mouth enters the mouth of that angel. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 319)

It has been narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub Ansari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ: There is nothing more troublesome for both angels than seeing their companion offering S alah with pieces of food stuck in his teeth.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 4, pp. 177)

Sayings of blessed companions and pious saints about Miswak

10 virtues of Miswak

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated: There are 10 virtues of Miswak: It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, removes phlegm, removes bad breath; it is in accordance with the Sunnah; the angels become happy; Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes pleased; it increases virtues and restore the stomach to health. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

Miswak is amongst the Sunnah of Deen [Islam]

Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah Nu’man Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: ‘ اِنَّ السِّوَاکَ مِنۡ سُنَنِ الدِّیۡنِ ’ Miswak is from the Sunnahs of Islam .

(‘Umda-ul-Qaari, vol. 6, pp. 261, Hadees 887)

Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Four things increase the intelligence: Abstaining from useless talks, the use of Miswak, the company of pious people and acting upon the knowledge one possesses.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 27)

Miswak is most important thing

Imam-ul-Muhaddiseen, Imam-ul-Awliya Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If all the people of any village stop using the Sunnah of

‘Miswak’, we will fight against them in a way we fight against the Murtadeen [apostates] so that people do not dare to give up the Sunnah of Miswak, whereas it is one of the commandments of Islam.

(Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 57)

Using Miswak for women?

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give me the Miswak for using and washing, I would use it myself at first (for attaining blessing) and then, after washing, I would give it to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Abu Dawood, vol. 1, pp. 52, Hadees 52)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: For women, Miswak is the Sunnah of Umm-ul- Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, but there is no harm if they do not use it. As compared to men, the teeth and gums of women are weaker; for them Missi (a kind of herbal tooth powder) is sufficient. (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 357)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Madani Muzakarah

It is a Madani request to you to attend these Madani Muzakarahs and also motivate other Islamic brothers to do so as well. Attending the Madani Muzakarah is also a weekly Madani activity that is one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Remember! Conducting Ijtima’ for delivering Islamic teachings is a method of our pious predecessors.

It is reported that Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhiyyuddin Sayyid ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also taught Islamic teachings to the people for 40 years. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 184)

And he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself stated, ‘On my hand, more than 500 non-believers embraced Islam and more than one hundred thousand robbers, thieves,

people indulged in immoral activities, cruel people and innovators in religion repented on my hands. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 184)

Through the blessings and favours of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه also gives the Madani pearls of advices through these Madani Muzakarahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these Madani Muzakarahs are not only a source of receiving precious information, but also through its blessings, many people come on right path and many people of corrupt beliefs and those who are non-practicing, repent of their corrupt beliefs and deeds and become practicing Muslims, of correct beliefs.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The one who values Miswak

Dear Islamic brothers! There are many Sunnahs in Wudu and each Sunnah is a source of blessings. Let’s take the example of Miswak. Even children know that use of Miswak in Wudu is Sunnah. How can words fully express the blessings of this Sunnah! A businessman says, ‘I met a new Muslim in Switzerland and I gifted him a Miswak. He became happy. He kissed the Miswak and then touched it to his eyes. Tears welled up in his eyes. He then took out a handkerchief from his pocket and unfolded it. On it was a small Miswak approximately two inches in length. He said that when he embraced Islam, he was given that as a gift; he used it with great care and it was nearly finished up, making him anxious. It was by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that he received another gift of Miswak from him, i.e. the businessman.

Then he added that he had chronic infection in his teeth and gums. The dentists had no cure for it. He started to use the Miswak and after a few days, he felt better. He went to see the doctor who was very surprised to see that he was cured. The doctor said that he could not be cured in such a short period of time with the medicine he had prescribed. Just recall what he had used. He pondered and recalled that he had become a Muslim and had

recently started to use the Miswak. Due to use of the Miswak, he was blessed and healed. When he showed the Miswak to the doctor, he was astonished.’

Medical advantages of Miswak

Dear Islamic brothers! Miswak has countless worldly and the Hereafter benefits. It contains many chemical components which protect the teeth from every type of infection. Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada, Sayyiduna ‘Ata and Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم have said: Use of Miswak strengthens memory, cures headache and relaxes the veins in the head; it eliminates phlegm, improves eyesight, rectifies stomach and helps digest food; it fortifies intellect, increases the number of the birth of one’s children, delays ageing and strengthens the back. (Haashiyah Tahtaawi, pp. 38)

Miswak is a cure for every disease

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: ‘ اَلسِّوَاکُ شِفَاءٌ مِنْ کُلِّ دَاءٍ اِلَّاالسَّامَ وَالسَّامُ ، اَلْمَوْتُ ’ Miswak is a cure for every disease except death . (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 5, pp. 137, Hadees 26159)

Miswak improves fluency of speech

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: ‘ اَلسِّوَاكُ يَزِ يْدُ الرَّجُلَ فَصَاحَةً ’ Miswak increases the eloquence of one’s speech.

(Musnad-ush-Shahaab, vol. 1, pp. 164, Hadees 232)

Three things improve memory

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: Three things improve the memory and removes phlegm: (1) using Miswak (2) observing Sawm (3) reciting the Holy Quran. (Islah-e-A’maal, vol. 1, pp. 277)

Shaykh-ul-Islam, Ibraheem Zarnooji رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Using Miswak also removes phlegm, and increases eloquence of speech and sharpens memory. Using Miswak is a very beautiful Sunnah and due to this, the reward of Salah and recitation of the Holy Quran is increased. (Rah-e-‘Ilm, pp. 61)

It has been narrated about Sayyiduna Ibraheem Nakh’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was a renowned and great Taabi’i and was one of the great teachers of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah: It is said about him that whatever he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه studied he would forget. One day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream and humbly requested: O Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Whatever I study I forget; I cannot remember things. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Do these things regularly: Eat less, sleep less, recite the Holy Quran abundantly, offer Salah abundantly, perform a new Wudu for every Salah and use Miswak for every Wudu.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Nakh’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: When I woke up and acted upon the advice of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so after some time, I became Imam and spiritual leader of people. (Salat Mas’oodi, pp. 106)

اُن کے جو غلام ہوگئے وقت کے اِمام ہو گئے

Cure of mouth blisters

Physicians’ opinions: Sometimes, due to heat and the acidity of stomach blisters appear inside the mouth, causing a specific kind of germs to spread [inside the mouth]. That’s why one should brush his teeth with a fresh Miswak; he should move its saliva all over in the mouth for some time. Many patients have recovered by doing it.

Dear Islamic brothers! It has usually been noticed that a person looks after the thing which he considers to be more important and beneficial. He makes arrangement to protect it so that it cannot be wasted or lost; he makes efforts to get it. Let’s have the example of a mobile phone. Nowadays, there is hardly any person who does not have a mobile phone rather one person would have more than one mobile phone. A person tries his best to look after it. Wise people try to use it in a permissible way and try to get more and more benefits. In short, the importance of a thing differs from person to person. Likewise, there are countless Sunan which are related to our daily life and by acting upon them we can attain countless blessings and goodness of the world and the Hereafter both. Miswak is one of them. We are listening to

its virtues and blessings. Would that we could be blessed with the enthusiasm to practice this great Sunnah!

Hereafter benefits of Miswak

Now let’s listen to the Hereafter and worldly benefits of Miswak briefly:

Miswak is a means of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Angels get pleased with the one who uses Miswak.

One who uses Miswak acts upon a Sunnah.

Miswak increases the Sawab [reward] of Salah.

Using Miswak removes satanic thoughts.

Miswak will serve as a companion in the grave of the Miswak-using person.

The grave of the Miswak-using person is extended. At the time of his death, Miswak reminds him of Kalimah.

The soul of the fortunate Miswak-using person leaves his body easily during death throes [i.e. severity of death].

Angels shake hands with the fortunate person who uses Miswak.

Using Miswak makes the heart pure.

The ‘Arsh-holding angels pray for the forgiveness of the Miswak-using person.

If a person goes to Salah after making Wudu with Miswak, angels follow him.

Satan gets away and displeased because of Miswak.

The one who uses Miswak regularly will cross Siraat bridge with the speed of lightning.

The Miswak- using person is blessed with courage and strength to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The doors of Paradise are opened for the one who uses Miswak. The doors of the Hell are closed for him.

In order to remove the soul of the one who uses Miswak, the angel of death comes in the same appearance in which he goes to the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and great pious saints.

The one who uses Miswak will be privileged to drink that wine from Paradise which is called ‘ رَحِیْقِ مَّخْتُوْمْ ’ (Raheeq-e-Makhtoom). He will drink it from the Pond Kawsar of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Worldly benefits of Miswak

Miswak purifies the mouth.

Miswak contains cure for every disease except death.

Miswak improves eyesight.

Miswak strengthens gums.

Miswak removes phlegm.

Miswak keeps the body healthy.

Miswak strengthens the memory.

Miswak makes hair grow.

Miswak improves the body colour.

One gets rid of poverty if he always uses Miswak.

Miswak enhances eloquence [i.e. ability to express oneself excellently] and intellect.

Miswak helps in the digestion of food.

Miswak delays aging.

Miswak strengthens the back.

Miswak enhances intellect.

Miswak brightens the face.

Miswak removes headache.

Miswak removes the harmful effects of excessive bodily fluids and make them excrete from the body.

Miswak stops [removes] molar pain.

Miswak makes teeth shining.

Miswak is a means of one’s number of children being increased.

Scientific benefits of Miswak

Miswak kills germs. It removes bad smell from the mouth. Sometimes, bits of food get stuck in between the teeth which do not get removed only by rinsing the mouth and which cause foul smell in the mouth and illnesses. The Miswak-using person remains safe from many illnesses. New research has revealed that there are some germs which are not removed by toothbrush and tooth paste. They can be removed only by Miswak.

Medical science has proved that Miswak strengthens the brain and maintains its proper functioning. Using Miswak also enhances one’s intellect and maintains its proper functioning for a long time. If a Miswak is not used to clean the teeth, the teeth will get unclean, causing pus to develop in molars and in gums which may become the cause of brain diseases. Psychological disorders are also caused by it.

Smelly teeth make gums also smelly. Pus develops in the gums, affecting the throat and causing cough, flue, cold, fever, etc. One’s life is badly affected if teeth are not cleaned with Miswak. Health is wealth. If a person is not healthy, what enjoyment is there for him in life? Hence we cannot do without Miswak. Some people suffer from the infection of tonsils; such patients can recover from it by using Miswak daily. There are some patients who suffer from the pain, pus and swelling of the ear. They do not get rid of this illness even after receiving very expensive treatment. When such patients are properly diagnosed, it becomes clear that they have pus in their gums and the whole mouth becomes smelly. When they receive treatment for gums and brush their teeth daily with a fresh Miswak, they also recover from ear infections.

Similarly, not cleaning the teeth plays a significant part in diseases related to the eye and eyesight. There are several patients suffering from weak eyesight. Besides other causes, the biggest cause of weak eyesight is carelessness in cleaning the teeth. Medical experts have proved by means of experiments that almost 80 per cent of diseases are caused by problems in the stomach

and the teeth. These days, every third person seems to be having any stomach disease. Patients of chronic flu with congested chest or stuffy nose feel comforted when they use Miswak because phlegm secretes from the body by the blessing of using Miswak. It has been proved by the experiments of pathologists that Miswak is an extremely effective treatment for chronic flue. Miswak even reduces the chances of nose and throat surgery.

It is appropriate to use Miswak made from the branch of a tree whose strands are soft so that they will neither cause gap between teeth nor cause harm to the gums. The best and high quality Miswak is obtained from the trees of Peelu, Neem and acacia and from the plant of oleander. The Miswak of Peelu has soft strands, containing calcium and phosphorus. It grows quite often on barren land and in deserted areas.

New scientific and medical research has proved that phosphorus is one of the elements that provide nutrient and help to the brain. The phosphorus found in the Miswak of Peelu reaches the brain through saliva and pores, giving energy to the brain. The Miswak of Neem tree is also very beneficial, as it contains cure for all diseases related to teeth. This tree is commonly found. After Neem, the Miswak of acacia tree is beneficial. It cleans the teeth thoroughly and protects them from bad smell and pus.

Remember! Try your best to have a fresh Miswak. If you are going to use a used Miswak, cut the used strands of it and make new strands by chewing it.

Do you know how to use Miswak properly?

On page 294 of the chapter ‘Adaab-e-Ta’aam’ [Islamic Manners of Eating] from his masterpiece namely, ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned: If Miswak is used correctly, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the diseases of teeth will never develop. This thought may come to your mind that I have been using the Miswak for several years but my teeth and stomach are still disturbed. My naive Islamic brothers! It is your own fault, not that of Miswak. I have reached the conclusion that there may be one among millions who performs Miswak properly. Most of us just rub

the Miswak hurriedly on our teeth while performing Wudu. It may be said that we practise ‘a custom of Miswak’ and do not follow its proper method.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to get the privilege of mentioning the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls pertaining to Miswak

On page 288 of the first volume of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The honourable scholars say that whoever uses the Miswak regularly, will be privileged to recite the Kalimah at the time of death, and whoever consumes opium will not be able to recite the Kalimah at the time of death.’

It is narrated from Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا that there are 10 qualities in Miswak: It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, removes phlegm, removes bad smells of the mouth, one is able to act upon a Sunnah by using the Miswak, the angels become happy,

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased, it increases good deeds and improves the functioning of the stomach. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

§ Miswak should be from olive or Neem or any such tree that has a bitter taste.

§ Thickness of the Miswak should be equal to the little finger.

§ The Miswak should not be longer than one’s hand span as Satan sits on it.

§ The strands of the Miswak should be soft; otherwise, they might cause gaps between the teeth and gums.

§ If a Miswak is fresh then it is excellent; otherwise soak it in a glass of water until it becomes soft.

§ Trim the strands of the Miswak every day as they are beneficial as long as they have some bitterness.

§ Brush your teeth horizontally with the Miswak.

§ Always brush your teeth with a Miswak at least three times.

§ And wash it each time.

§ Hold the Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains towards the lower part, and the middle three fingers remain on it while the thumb remains towards the top (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

§ Brush (with Miswak) the upper teeth of the right side first and then the left. Thereafter, clean the lower teeth again starting from the right and then the left.

§ To use Miswak when held in the fist can cause piles.

§ Miswak is a pre-Wudu Sunnah but if one has foul breath, using the Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

§ Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands as it is used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the devotees of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِالنَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہ ٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

