Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Scholarly Status of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ يَا اَ يُّهَا النّاسُ اِنَّ اَنجَاكُم يَومَ القِيَامَةِ مِن اَهوَالِهَا وَمَوَاطِنِهَا اَ كْثَرُكُمْ عَلَىَّ صَلاةً فِى دَارِالدُّنيَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, from the terror and accountability of the Day of Judgement, the person who would attain the quick salvation will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 5, pp. 277, Hadees 8175)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

-1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

-2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

-3 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-4 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

-5 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

-6 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

-7 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-8 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

-9 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

-10 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

-11 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are in the sacred month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir. It is the blessed month on the 11 th of which the ‘Urs of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is celebrated. It is also called ‘Bari Giyarhween’ by the devotees of Ghaus-e-A’zam. Today we are going to listen to the Zikr of this sacred personage especially about his scholarly status in relation to it. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is known to the world by the name of ‘Ghaus-e-A’zam’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed him with a great status of sainthood, that is, he has been declared to be the chief of all the saints. Let’s, first of all, listen to a faith-refreshing parable about the scholarly glory of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Sea of knowledge

Sayyiduna Haafiz Abul ‘Abbas Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I once went to the Ijtima’-e-Ghausiyyah of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه along with ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . A Qaari recited the Holy Quran. After the recitation, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started Bayan and the Holy Quran was recited. Mentioning the Tafseer (exegesis) of one of the Ayahs he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned one meaning of the Ayah. I asked ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه if he knew about that Tafseer. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made a positive reply by saying that he had the knowledge of that Tafseer. Afterward, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned 11 Tafaseer (exegeses) one by one. Upon my asking every time ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept saying that he also knew about the Tafseer. Haafiz Abul ‘Abbas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned 40 Tafaseer of that blessed Ayah along with the name of the Mufassir (exegetist) of every Tafseer, but after 11 Tafaseer for every Tafseer ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave a negative reply by nodding his head that he did not know about that Tafseer. (Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 11)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the above-mentioned parable the status and rank of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak’s knowledge can easily be judged as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned 40 Tafaseer of only one Ayah at the same time; 29 out of those 40 Tafaseer were even not in the blessed knowledge of ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who was a very great Islamic scholar and Imam of his time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote valuable books on many other arts and sciences in addition to the knowledge of Holy Quran, Hadees, Fiqh, geography, medicine, history,

astrology, mathematics, lexicology, Nahw [grammar], etc. It is said that the number of his books is more than 300. Many of them consist of many volumes and some booklets are also included in them.

(Muqaddamah: ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 16)

Imam Ibn Qudaamah Hanbali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Imam Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the expert in oration. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote best books on different arts and sciences. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also teach and was also Haafiz-ul-Hadees, (Haafiz-ul-Hadees is the person who has memorized one hundred thousand blessed Ahadees with their references), but despite being so great Imam of his time ‘Allamah Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew about only 11 exegeses out of 40 exegeses mentioned by Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . From this, the great depth of the knowledge of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can easily be judged.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Good news given by Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in Jeelan near Baghdad [Iraq] on 1 st Ramadan, 470 AH, on Friday. It is stated on page 21 of ‘ Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat ’ a 106-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. On the night of the blessed birth of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه his father, Sayyid Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, had a dream that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم along with blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and blessed saints visited his house and gave him the following good news: O Abu Saalih, Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed you with the son who is a pious saint; he is my beloved and the beloved of Allah Almighty and his rank among the pious saints and Aqtaab رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی is similar to my rank among the Ambiya and Mursaleen عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . (Seerat Ghaus-us-Saqalayn, pp. 55)

Good news given by blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام

In addition to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, other blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام also gave this good news to the father of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that all the Awliya (Saints) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be obedient to his son and his son’s blessed foot will be on their necks. (Tafreeh-ul-Khaatir, pp. 57)

Dear Islamic sisters! You must have realised that our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has such great status and dignity that just after his birth, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم – who would give the news of the Ghayb [i.e. unseen] – gave the good news of the great status and dignity of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and also told his father that his son [i.e. Ghaus-e-A’zam] will be the leader of all the Awliya. Therefore, blessings started to appear just after his blessed birth.

Blessed birth and astonishing events

Many amazing events took place when Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. It is something highly unusual that the blessed mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam, Sayyidatuna Umm-ul-Khayr Fatimah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا was sixty years of age when Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came into the world; an age when women usually lose hope of having a child.

(Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 173)

This was the special favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam gave birth to him at this age. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed every that woman of the [village] Jeelan with a son, who gave birth to a child that night in which he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born, and every new-born child became the Wali [pious saint] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tafreeh-ul-Khaatir, pp. 57)

Appearance of Ghaus-e-A’zam

Describing the appearance of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Abu ‘Abdullah Bin Ahmad Bin Qudaamah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Shaykh-ul-Islam, Sultan-ul-Awliya, Muhyiddeen, Sayyid ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a graceful body, medium height, broad chest, wide and long beard, and a wheatish complexion. His eyebrows were touching each other, blessed voice was

pleasantly loud and face was extremely beautiful. Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was extremely intelligent. (Nuzhat-ul-Khaatir, pp. 19)

Ghaus-e-A’zam gained knowledge in mother’s womb

On page 4 of his booklet ‘ Munnay ki Laash ’ [Corpse of a Child], Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: When Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was sent to a pious predecessor to recite ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the age of 5 [five], he recited ‘ اَعُوۡذُ ’ and ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ and then recited from the first part to the 18 th part of the Holy Quran. The saint said, ‘Son! Continue reciting.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘This is all that I have memorized because my mother also memorized this much. When I was in my mother’s womb, my mother would recite up to the 18 th chapter of the Glorious Quran so I memorized this much by listening [to her].’ (Al-Haqaaiq fil-Hadaiq, pp. 140)

Early education

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was still a small child when his father, Sayyid Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was brought up by Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Sawma’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his maternal grandfather. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Sawma’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of the pious predecessors of Jeelan who was extremely pious and abstinent. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received his early education and Tarbiyyat (upbringing) from him.

Someone asked Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: ‘When did you realize yourself as a Wali?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘When I was ten years old I would leave home for Madrasah for studying, I would see the angels who would be saying to boys: Make room for seating the Wali of Allah Almighty.’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 48)

After acquiring the basic education, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Baghdad for gaining more Islamic knowledge in 488 Hijri at the age of 18 because Baghdad was the only educational and political centre of Muslims in those days.

Indication towards gaining Islamic knowledge

Shaykh Muhammad Bin Qaa`id Al-Awaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I was once present in the blessed court of Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . I asked him questions about different matters. One of them was: ‘Ya Shaykh! On what basis do you decide your matters?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه responded: ‘I decide my matters on the basis of truthfulness. I have never told a lie and given a false statement. I never told a lie even in my childhood when I used to study in Madrasah.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: Once I went towards a jungle during the days of Hajj. I was following a bull, but suddenly that bull looked at me and said: یَا عَبْدَ الْقَادِرِمَا لِھٰذَا خُلِقْتَ i.e. ‘O Abdul Qaadir! You have not been created for these types of activities.’ I came home anxiously and climbed up onto the roof. I saw that people were standing in the plain of ‘Arafat. Thereafter, I went to my mother and humbly said: ‘Please give me permission to go to Baghdad so that I gain Islamic knowledge over there.’ My mother رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا asked me its reason so I told her the event of that bull. This event moved her to tears and she brought the 80 dinars which my father had left in inheritance. I took 40 dinars from them and left 40 dinars for my brother Sayyid Abu Ahmad Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

My mother sewed my 40 dinars in my specific Jubbah which had many patches and gave me permission to go to Baghdad. She strongly advised me to tell the truth in every circumstance and accompanied me to some distance outside Jeelan to see me off. She then said: یَا وَلَدِیْ اِذْہَبْ فَقَدْ خَرَجْتُ عَنْکَ لِلّٰہِ فَہٰذَا وَجْہٌ لَا اَرَاہُ اِلٰی یَوْمِ الْقِیَامَۃِ, i.e. O my beloved son! Go! In order to please Allah Almighty I send you away from me and now I will see your face on the Day of Judgement.

Then I left for Baghdad from Jeelan along with a caravan. On the way to Baghdad, the caravan was attacked by sixty robbers who started snatching belongings from the travellers of the caravan. They robbed everyone, but no robber asked me [Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] for anything because I seemed to have nothing. However, one of them asked me: What do you have? I replied truthfully: ‘Yes! I have forty dinars [i.e. gold coins].’ He asked: Where are they? I told him: They are sewn in my Gudri (pocket) under my armpit.

The robber considered it a joke and moved ahead. After a short while, another robber came and asked me the same question, and I gave the same reply. He also moved away from me. When both robbers informed their chief about me, I was taken to him on his orders . That time they all were dividing the belongings among themselves which they robbed. Having seen me their chief asked about what I had. I gave the same reply as before.

On the orders of the chief, my Gudri was cut open and forty dinars were really found in it. All the people were amazed to see my truthfulness. When asked about the reason for telling the truth even in this situation, I replied, ‘Before I departed, my mother had made me promise to tell the truth in every circumstance and to not tell a lie ever. I cannot break the promise I have made to my mother.’ Listening to this, the chief of the robbers burst into tears and said, ‘Alas! You have sincerely fulfilled the promise you made to your mother, but I have been going against the promises for years I have made to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . ’

I mpressed by t h e sincerity and piety of this young traveller who was in the path of Allah Almighty, the chief of the robbers repented of his sins. His fellow robbers also repented and said, ‘O chief! You were our leader when we were robbers, now you will also lead us to the path to righteousness.’ They returned the valuables they had snatched from the people of the caravan. These were those very first people who repented in front of me. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 8; summarized)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The parable you have just heard shows how strong desire our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had for gaining Islamic knowledge that he not only left his home and travelled vast distances to achieve this noble cause, but he also went away from his caring mother. His mother also made a great sacrifice that she not only granted her beloved son permission to gain Islamic knowledge, overlooking the pain and grief of sending him away but she also entirely devoted her son to gain and serve Islamic knowledge and when seeing him off, she clearly stated: یَا وَلَدِیْ اِذْہَبْ فَقَدْ خَرَجْتُ عَنْکَ لِلّٰہِ فَہٰذَا وَجْہٌ لَا اَرَاہُ اِلٰی

یَوْمِ الْقِیَامَۃِ, i.e. O my beloved son! Go! In order to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I send you away from me and now I will not see your face until the Day of Judgement.

The mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam not only gave him permission to travel far away but she also gave him money to cover [living and travelling] expenses.

It has also become obvious from this parable that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the embodiment of truthfulness. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never told a lie in his lifetime; he decided his matters on the basis of truthfulness and honesty. One of its main reasons is the proper religious upbringing given to him by his pious mother Sayyidatuna Umm-ul-Khayr Fatimah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا as we have heard that his mother made him take a pledge to always remain firm on truthfulness. Therefore, we should also give our children Islamic upbringing. We should always speak the truth ourselves and also persuade our children to speak the truth even in their childhood.

Strongly advising us to speak the truth and refrain from telling lies, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Hold on to the truth, because the truth leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Paradise; a man continues to speak the truth and tries to speak the truth until he is written in the sight of Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ as the one who speaks the truth very much. Refrain from lying, because a lie leads to a sin, and a sin leads to the Hell; a man continues to lie and tries to tell lies until in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he is written a big liar. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written true stories for children and elders in a very easy way so that they can understand it along with beautiful titles. These booklets have been published in the very good-quality paper and are explained with pictures for attracting children. Buy these booklets:

-1 Noor Wala Chehrah (Luminous Face)

-2 Fir’awn Ka Khuwab (Pharaoh’s Dream)

-3 Bayta ho to Aysa (Unique Son)

-4 Jhoota Chor (Lying Thief)

-5 Doodh Peeta Madani Munna (Madani Infant)

1. Noor Wala Chehrah (Luminous Face)

When you read it or make your children read or read it out to them, the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will increase, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They will also be able to know the worldly and religious disadvantages of video games.

2. Fir’awn Ka Khuwab (Pharaoh’s Dream)

When you read it or make your children read or read it out to them, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will be able to know the eminence and glory of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . They will also know about the harm of cold drinks.

3. Beta ho to Aysa (Unique Son)

When you read it or make your children read or read it out to them, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will know how Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام presented himself for the sacrifice and then how heavenly ram was sent by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They will know the particular excellence of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and also the harm of eating chocolates, toffees and colourful candies.

4. Jhoota Chor (Lying Thief)

When you read it or make your children read or read it out to them, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they and you as well will hate lying and they will also have the inclination to speak the truth. Useful Madani pearls are mentioned at the end of this booklet which will not only help your children to attain apparent and hidden purity but they will also benefit you, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Individual effort – one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to develop reverence towards Ghaus-e-Pak, take part in 8 Madani activities. One of the 8 Madani activities is “Individual effort”. It is a Madani request to do an Individual effort on new Islamic sisters

and persuade them to join the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Help them become Mu’allimah, Muballighah (preacher) and Mudarrisah and increase the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami. Those Islamic sisters who use to be active in the past and are inactive now, especially make an individual effort on them and make them join the Madani environment again. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: 99% work of Dawat-e-Islami is possible through Individual effort. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by the virtue of Individual effort, many Islamic sisters have joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

I came out from a sandpit of sins

Dear Islamic sisters! By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, prayers made from the bottom of the heart are answered, entreaties are granted, and wishes are fulfilled. This is a summary of an Islamic sister’s statement from Punjab (Pakistan): Before joining Dawat-e-Islami’s fragrant Madani environment, I was very badly stuck in the sandpit of sins. Although my heart despised sins I saw no way to abstain from them. I had absolutely no religious knowledge. I would often pray, ‘O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I want to be a good person, make me a better person.’ At long last, my prayers were answered and one day I heard the good news of ‘a Dawat-e-Islami Sunnah-inspiring Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’ being held on Sunday 12 th August 2001 at so-and-so place.’

I began to wait anxiously for the announced event. Finally, the day arrived and I eagerly attended the Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’. Hearing the recitation of the Quran and the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I felt peace and pleasure in my heart. When the female preacher of Dawat-e-Islami started the Sunnah-inspiring speech, I listened to it attentively. By the end of the speech, my face was dripping with tears. Then the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ was announced which I made a firm intention to attend.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of regularly attending the weekly Ijtima’, I was rescued from the sandpit of sins. Today, I am trying to promote the call to

righteousness amongst Islamic sisters as a responsible person for Madani activities in our locality.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Upon reaching Baghdad, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gained Islamic knowledge from the famous, renowned and outstanding teachers of his time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such great love for Islamic knowledge that he gained knowledge even by facing starvation and other difficulties. In relation to this fact, let’s listen to something about his love for Islamic knowledge and the patience he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه showed while facing the difficulties to gain this knowledge.

Starvation and patience

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Tameemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has himself stated: Once people of Baghdad suffered from starvation due to which I had to face severe hardships and poverty. For many days, I did not get anything to eat. Feeling extreme hunger, one day, I went to river Tigris so that I could eat spinach or leaves of any other vegetable over there. Wherever I would go, many poor people would already be there and if they would find anything eatable, everyone would rush to get it. I returned to the city to find something over there, but I could not find anything over there either.

Feeling weak because of extreme hunger, at last, I went to the Masjid and sat in a corner. After a little while, a non-Arab young person entered the Masjid having roti and roasted meat and started eating. I had a spontaneous desire to open my mouth at his every morsel because of extreme hunger but I made my Nafs understand about this act. Meanwhile, that non-Arab looked at me, brought food and served me. He asked me about my nationality and

occupation. I replied: I live in Jeelan and I am gaining Islamic knowledge here. He asked me: ‘Do you know about a young person named ‘Abdul Qaadir who belongs to Jeelan?’ I replied: ‘I am the person you are looking for.’ Listening to it, he got nervous, apologized to me and said: ‘Your mother gave me 8 dinars to give them to you.

When I arrived in Baghdad, I had money for my living expenses but it took me so many days to find you that I ran out of money. It was the third day since I had been starving. Since I had no alternative, I have spent your money that I was entrusted with to buy this roti and meat for a meal. You may now eat this food with satisfaction because all this belongs to you in reality. Now I am your guest, not you.’ I comforted him and expressed my pleasure. When we finished the meal, I saw him off with the remaining food and some money. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 9)

Enormous difficulties and great patience

Dear Islamic sisters! سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, You must have noticed that Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه faced great difficulties, hardships and starvation while gaining Islamic knowledge. Even then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained extremely patient, pious, righteous and selfless. Moreover, if he would find anything to eat, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would leave it for others selflessly keeping in mind the strong desire to help and support others, and would remain patient himself. Expressing the great difficulties and hardships that Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه faced for gaining Islamic knowledge, Shaykh ‘Abdullah Najjaar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه told him: I faced even such difficulties that even the mountains would have blown to bits if they faced those difficulties. When those frequent difficulties would go beyond my powers of endurance, I would lie on the floor and recite these blessed Ayahs:

فَاِنَّ مَعَ الْعُسْرِ یُسْرًاۙ(۵) اِنَّ مَعَ الْعُسْرِ یُسْرًاؕ(۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So, without doubt, there is ease with hardship. Without doubt, there is ease with hardship.

(Part 30, Surah Alam Nashrah, Ayah 5, 6)

After the recitation of these Ayahs, when I would raise my head, all of my troubles would come to an end and I would feel satisfied. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 10)

Passion for Islamic knowledge

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a very unique way of gaining Islamic knowledge. His profound eagerness to gain knowledge can be understood by his experiences which are as follows: After having lessons from my teachers, I would go to the jungle where I would continue my studies in the deserts and wastelands no matter whether it was day or night, hurricane or heavy rain, hot or cold weather. I had a very small ‘Imamah on my head in those days and I would eat ordinary vegetables to satisfy my hunger and sometimes I would not find even those vegetables. When I would see other hungry indigent people in search of food, I would return empty-handed because I did not feel it appropriate to hurt their fillings. After returning I would continue my studies and sleep hungrily on the floor filled with pebbles.

(Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 10)

Dear Islamic sisters! Ponder over the fact that enduring so many hardships and sufferings Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gained Islamic knowledge. In spite of this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never made any complaint.

From the aforementioned parable, we also get the following valuable Madani pearls that when someone suffers from any trouble or anxiety, she should show patience keeping the virtues of patience in mind and she should keep in mind that this world is a house of trials and tribulations in which there are countless comforts and worldly pleasures along with great griefs and sorrows. Easiness and trouble go together. That’s why, since humanity came into being, general Muslims even the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام have experienced various trials and hardships along with comforts and pleasures. Even sometimes the chosen bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have to face more hardship than ease, but these Allah-loving people instead of making any complaint endure the trials with great patience. They even give Madani Tarbiyyat of patience and tolerance to their disciples, followers and admirers. Therefore, following in these blessed personalities’

footsteps, we should have patience when we get into trouble and be grateful to Allah Almighty for the blessings He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon us.

The Glorious Quran has mentioned the virtues of patience at many places. For adopting the habit of patience, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ یُؤْتَوْنَ اَجْرَهُمْ مَّرَّتَیْنِ بِمَا صَبَرُوْا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: They will be given double the reward, the recompense of their patience. (Part 20, Surah Al-Qasas, Ayah 54)

وَ لَنَجْزِیَنَّ الَّذِیْنَ صَبَرُوْۤا اَجْرَهُمْ بِاَحْسَنِ مَا كَانُوْا یَعْمَلُوْنَ(۹۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed We shall pay the patiently enduring a recompense which befits the best of their deeds.

(Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, Ayah 96)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: When a Muslim gets a prick from any thorn or even faces slighter trouble than this, one rank is recorded for him and his one sin is removed. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1391, Hadees 2572)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The person to whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do good, [He عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] makes him suffer from a trouble. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 4, Hadees 5645)

Dear Islamic sisters! Instead of complaining and mentioning our worries to people all the time, we should have patience facing these trials and tribulations. If we are sad today, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be happy tomorrow. Today we are facing difficulties, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ tomorrow we will feel completely at ease. The way the time of happiness comes and goes by, in the same way, the time of trouble also comes and goes by. That’s why when Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would be in trouble, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would keep the following blessed saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in mind:

اِنَّ مَعَ الْعُسْرِ یُسْرًاؕ(۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Without doubt, there is ease with hardship.

(Part 30, Surah Alam Nashrah, Ayah 6)

And then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه such an excellent reward for his matchless patience and steadfastness that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه surpassed in rank all Islamic scholars of his time.

Physical appearance and the exalted rank of Ghaus-e-A’zam

Shaykh Imam Abu ‘Abdullah Bin Ahmad Bin Qudaamah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Shaykh-ul-Islam, Sultan-ul-Awliya, Sayyid ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه struggled hard to gain knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gained Islamic knowledge from many blessed scholars and renowned pious predecessors of his times and had been in their company. As a result of it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attained the greatest rank amongst the Islamic scholars of his time. For gaining knowledge, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه endured many hardships and trials. Finally, detaching himself from the worldly matters, he became occupied with the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and call towards righteousness. His good qualities became famous all over the world; Islam strengthened because of him; knowledge was given respect because of him; Sharia [Islamic law] started to be implemented because of him. A large number of Islamic scholars went to him and were privileged to become his students. Many Fuqara and great Islamic scholars were also privileged to get Khilafat (permission of making Mureed in his spiritual order) from him.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Scholarly position

Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhammad Bin Yahya At-Taadafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Having completed his studies, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started giving Dars and teaching and issuing Fatwa. In addition, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also became busy calling people towards righteousness and spreading knowledge and persuading people to act upon the knowledge. So, blessed Islamic scholars from all over the world would go to him to gain Islamic knowledge. At that time, there was no one equal to his rank in Baghdad. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed a sea of knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had complete expertise in the knowledge of Fiqh, Hadees, Quranic commentary, Arabic grammar, literature etc. When his teachers gave him the Sanad of the knowledge of Hadees they started saying: O ‘Abdul Qaadir, we are giving you the Sanad (certificate) of the knowledge of Hadees, but the fact is that we have learned how to understand the meaning and sense of Ahadees from you.

(Hayat-ul-Mu’azzam fi Manaqib Ghaus-e-A’zam, pp. 46; slightly amended)

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such a strong desire to propagate Islamic knowledge that he did not use to waste his time at all. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often remain busy with scholarly activities. Having heard about his glory and expertise in sciences and arts, students from other cities would also go to him in order to gain Islamic knowledge and attain blessings from him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was such an embodiment of Islamic knowledge and Amal [its practice] that whoever would go to him to gain knowledge would not leave empty-handed. Let’s listen [to the speech] about the good qualities and scholarly services related to his knowledge and practice, Dars and teaching.

Position of teaching

Sayyiduna Qadi Abu Sa’eed Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a Madrasah [i.e. Islamic school] in Baghdad. He used to give reformative speeches and impart Islamic knowledge to students at this Madrasah. When Sayyiduna Qazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه learned about Ghaus-e-A’zam’s great knowledge and practice upon the knowledge, scholarly achievements and insight, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه handed his

Madrasah over to him. Thereafter, as people heard about his grace and marvel and scholarly expertise, they [in a large number] started going to him to gain Islamic knowledge. (Seerat Ghaus-e-A’zam, pp. 58)

Expertise in 13 sciences

The writer of the book Bahjat-ul-Asraar, ‘Allamah Nooruddin Abul Hasan ‘Ali Shatnoofi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to deliver a speech about 13 sciences. At his sacred Madrasah, people would study Tafseer, Hadees, Fiqh and Ilm-ul-Kalam, etc. Both times, before noon and after noon, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would teach people Tafseer, Hadees, Fiqh, Ilm-ul-Kalam, Usool and Nahw. After Zuhr he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would teach the Holy Quran with Tajweed and Qira`at (correct pronunciation). (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 225)

Love for students

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the embodiment of knowledge and practice [upon the knowledge] and had excellent manners. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would become extremely affectionate towards students and would also address even their small needs.

Helped student in his studies

In reply to a question about Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked from Imam Ibn Qudaamah Hanbali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he said: We had the last part of his life and stayed in his Madrasah. We were looked after in this way that sometimes Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would send his son Sayyiduna Yahya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to us, who would light an oil lamp, and Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would send food for us from his own home.

(Seer A’laam-un-Nubula, vol. 15, pp. 183)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would show great affection towards Islamic students as he would send food for them from his own home. Therefore, we should also address the needs of Islamic students as per our financial ability. For example, if a person has no financial problem, she should, for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with good

intentions, contribute to fulfil the needs of poor Islamic students’ books [Islamic books], clothes, accommodation as per the weather especially, and become the part of those who serve Islam. Perhaps by virtue of this good deed, our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ may get pleased with us forever. Perhaps by virtue of this good deed, we may be forgiven. For example, the way we want to give good food to our children, we take great care of them in winter, we try to protect them from cold weather by thinking that my son cannot bear a light cold wind, nor can he bear a little blow of warm air, similarly, we should think about Islamic students as they may also need many basic things of life which will not be available easily everywhere.

Today, we are celebrating Bari Giyarhween [i.e. the sacred Giyarhween that is celebrated on the 11 th of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir] of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He used to overlook his students’ weaknesses. Sayyiduna Shaykh Ahmad Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a non-Arab student. He would understand things with great difficulty. Once that student was sitting reading his lesson near Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a person came to see Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he saw the mental weakness of the student and the patience of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with the state of the student, he felt very surprised. As the student left, that person humbly said: I am surprised at the mental weakness of the student and your patience with his mental weakness. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘I have to work hard on this student for less than a week only because he will die.’

Sayyiduna Ahmad Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: We started counting the days of that student since that day and when the week was about to end, the last day he really died. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 8)

King of writing Fatwa

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had great expertise in Dars and teaching, writing and compilation, call towards righteousness and other subjects of knowledge, but especially he had such a great expertise in writing Fatawa that the great Islamic scholars, Fuqaha [Islamic jurists] and blessed Muftis were also surprised by his excellent Fatawa.

Shaykh Imam Muwaffaquddin Bin Qudaamah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: In 561 Hijri, we went to Baghdad and saw that Shaykh Sayyid ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of those who was given the kingship in knowledge and Amal [its practice] and writing Fatwa. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 225)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such great scholarly expertise that if extremely difficult rulings were asked from him, he would give an extremely easy answer to the rulings. He spent almost 33 years in serving Islam by giving Dars and teaching and writing Fatwa. During this period of time, when his Fatawa were brought to the Islamic scholars of Iraq, they would become astonished at his answer.

Imam Abu Ya’la Najmuddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very renowned for his Fatwa in Iraq and people would contact him for Fatawa. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 225)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the scholarly activities of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it becomes very obvious that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life in gaining and spreading Islamic knowledge. Therefore, we should also develop a strong desire to gain Islamic knowledge by following the mission of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and should strive to reform ourselves and the people of the entire world through it.

Remember! Islamic knowledge makes a person a good member of society. It is the Islamic knowledge because of which a person attains respect and nobility. It is the Islamic knowledge because of which a person becomes pious and abstinent. Mentioning the virtues of Islamic knowledge, many times, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم persuaded his devotees to gain Islamic knowledge. For persuasion, let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 The person who walks onto a path for seeking knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make the path to Paradise easy for him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1447, Hadees 2699)

-2 The person, who leaves his home for seeking knowledge, is in the way of Allah Almighty until he returns. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 294, Hadees 2656)

-3 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the understanding of religion upon the one to whom He عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do good. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadees 71)

-4 When a person dies, his deeds are over except three: (1) Sadaqah-e-Jariyah (2) the knowledge from which benefit is obtained (3) righteous children who make Du’a for him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 886, Hadees 1631)

Lack of knowledge causes harm

Dear Islamic sisters! Not only have we got many virtues of Islamic knowledge from these blessed Ahadees, but we have also learned that Sadaqah Jariyah, propagation of Islamic knowledge and righteous children are such good deeds from which one continues to receive reward even after his death. Therefore, provide your children with Islamic knowledge and get them enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. Currently, one of the biggest evils is ignorance of basic Shar’i rulings which is at the top of all other evils in the society, whether it is related to the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or the rights of bondmen, evil acts are being committed in every walk of life due to a lack of Islamic knowledge.

Due to a lack of Islamic knowledge and being deprived of correct guidance not only are many different types of sins and evils being rapidly committed in matters and ethics, but they are also being committed in our beliefs and acts of worship. In order to stop or control them, it is not sufficient to only gain Islamic knowledge, but we also have to act upon the knowledge and through it, we have to try to reform others. That’s why making up the mind of his disciples, devotees, relatives and friends to strive to reform themselves and the people of the entire world, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given this Madani aim: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam approximately in 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah’ that is busy serving patients and distressed Islamic sisters. Under the supervision of this department, Islamic sisters provide only Islamic sisters with ‘Ruhaani ‘Ilaj’

[spiritual cure for diseases and difficulties] through Awraad-o-Wazaaif (invocations) in order to relieve them of their distress and troubles. All these services are provided free of cost.

Books of Ghaus-e-A’zam

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written many books for serving Islam and guiding Muslim Ummah. In his booklet ‘ Tazkirah Qadiriyyah ’, ‘Allamah ‘Alauddin Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said after writing the names of seven books written by Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak: It has been learned by authentic narrations that the number of books he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written is 69. (Seerat-e-Ghaus-e-A’zam, pp. 61)

His Bayanaat [speeches]

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to spread apparent and spiritual branches of knowledge, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rendered countless services to Islam through his Dars and teaching and writings along with reformative Bayanaat [speeches]. The style of his speech was so beautiful that a large number of people would pay attention to him. The people, who would come to his Ijtima’, would not leave the Ijtima’ in the middle, but rather would remain seated and listen to the speech silently as long as it continued, because his speeches used to be extremely effective. When he started the gatherings of speech, the Madrasah would get short of space due to a large number of attendees. People bought the buildings around the Madrasah and dedicated them to this righteous cause. Apart from Baghdad, people started coming from far and wide to listen to his Bayan [speech]. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 202-203)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would deliver the speech 3 days a week. Countless people and blessed Islamic scholars would come to listen to it. The number of people, who would come to listen to his speech was usually more than 70,000 including Islamic scholars and blessed Sufis. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 18) 400 people would attend his Majlis with pens and inkpots and would save his sayings by writing them. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 18)

Talking about the strong desire of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for reforming Ummah, his son Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Wahhab رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: He delivered speech for 40 years.

Shaykh ‘Umar Keemani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: There is not a single speech in which people did not embrace Islam, and thieves, robbers and big sinners did not repent of their sins in front of him. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 18)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Questions and answers of 100 Islamic scholars

Sayyiduna Mufarraj Bin Nabhaan Shaybani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became famous, 100 most intelligent blessed Islamic Scholars of Baghdad agreed to it that everyone would make different questions about different subjects so that they could make Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه speechless by these questions.

Having made this plan, they all went to Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Shaykh Mufarraj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I was also present in the court of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When the blessed Islamic scholars came and sat, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lowered his blessed head. At that time, a Noor [i.e. light] emerged from his blessed chest which was seen by every such person whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wanted to show. When the Noor reached the chest of every blessed Islamic scholar, all of them became astonished and started trembling. They then came bareheaded near the blessed Mimber [i.e. a raised pulpit-like structure], of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embraced everyone by turns and mentioned to them their questions as well as their answers.

In this way, he one by one answered to the questions of all of them. When the blessed Majlis ended, I went to those blessed Islamic scholars and asked them about the happening. They talked about the harm of testing a great and renowned saint of Allah Almighty. They said that they suddenly forgot everything when they came and sat in the court of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, but Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embraced them, so everyone got their knowledge back and the most surprising thing to them was that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the answers to their questions which they did not know before. (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 33; Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 96)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life in propagating Islamic knowledge. Following in his footsteps, we should also gain Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is providing us with many opportunities and sources for gaining Islamic knowledge. Madaris-ul-Madinah and Dar-ul- Madinah have been established for better education and upbringing of Madani children. Jami’aat-ul-Madinah have been established for Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of applying oil and combing hair

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of applying oil from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ has said that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would often apply oil to the blessed head and comb the blessed beard and he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would often put a cloth over the blessed head, even to the extent that the cloth used to remain dampened with oil. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 40)

٭ It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The one who oils without reciting ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’, 70 Satans accompany him.

(‘Amal-ul-Yawm wal-Laylah, vol. 1, pp. 327, Hadees 173)

٭ Before applying oil, recite ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ ’ and pour some oil onto the palm of left hand out of the bottle etc. Then first oil the eyebrow of the right eye, then of the left eye, then eyelashes of the right eye, then of the left eye, and then oil hair.

