اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Parables of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and

Dignity of Sayyidah Maryam رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ يَا اَ يُّهَا النّاسُ اِنَّ اَنجَاكُم يَومَ القِيَامَةِ مِن اَهوَالِهَا وَمَوَاطِنِهَا اَ كْثَرُكُمْ عَلَىَّ صَلاةً فِى دَارِالدُّنيَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, from the terror and accountability of the Day of Judgement, the person who

would attain the quick salvation will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 5, pp. 277, Hadees 8175)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, we will listen to the parables of the blessed lives of an extremely honourable and noble Nabi Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, his beloved son Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, and the beloved mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the famous Waliyah, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Let us, first of all, listen to a faith enlightening parable of Sayyiduna Zakariyya’s life.

Incomparable caution

Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام preferred to work for his livelihood. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would get paid for constructing walls. In exchange, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would get one Roti (bread) as remuneration. Once, few people came in his blessed court. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was busy eating at that time and did not invite them to eat. Upon this, they became extremely astonished as they thought that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would also invite them to eat. However, when he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not invite them, then out of astonishment, they asked him the reason for it. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, ‘I work for some people on wages. In exchange for my work, they give me one Roti as my remuneration so that I can gain energy to do that work. Had I fed you a bit from my share of roti, then it definitely would not have been sufficient for you and neither would have I gained the energy I require. However, it would have brought inefficiency in my work and I would not have been able to perform my work properly. That’s why I did not invite you for the meal.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 246; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Had the beloved Nabi of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, given his Roti as hospitality to them, it would have been an act of generosity from his side which is a Nafl [optional] act. Whereas, to accomplish his work perfectly and wholeheartedly, as a labourer, was obligatory for him. The reason because the work he was doing required physical labour, hence, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام considered it necessary to consume the Roti himself. From this, we also attain the Madani pearl that during the hours of employment, we should avoid every such action that harms the work of the employer.

In order to gain information regarding the rulings on employment, reading the booklet ‘ 50 Madani Pearls of Earning Halal Sustenance ’ of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه will be extremely beneficial. This booklet can also be read, downloaded and printed out from Dawat-e-Islami’s website www.dawateislami.net .

We get another Madani pearl that working to earn a livelihood is the way of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Therefore, one shall not consider it to be inferior at all. Earning Halal sustenance for yourself and your household to support them with good intentions is an act of worship. Various blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to earn their livelihood.

It is narrated that Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the first one to weave cloth and then engaged in agriculture. (Tafseer Na’eemi, part 1, Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah: 36, vol. 1, pp. 260) Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام used to sew clothes. (Al-Hiss ‘alat Tijarah was-Sana’ah, pp. 113) Similarly, another Nabi Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام used to graze goats before becoming a king. After becoming a king, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would make armours and sell them. (Tafseer Khaazin, Saba, Taht-al-Ayah: 10, vol. 3, pp. 517) Similarly, the famous companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, would prefer to earn his livelihood himself. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 258)

Likewise, the famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, used to trade in textile. (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 6, pp. 234)

We came to know that striving to work for Halal sustenance is the way of the righteous people of Allah Almighty. Alas! The passion of considering earning of halal sustenance to be an act of worship is diminishing away in our society nowadays and the concept of earning money is rapidly picking up regardless of the fact whether it is Halal or Haraam. This is the reason that whether a trader nowadays owns a shop or just a stall, he is seen to have been fallen prey to the greed of only earning more and more money. That’s why the ill traits like lying, breaching promises, making a deal over deal, hoarding goods,

selling adulterated goods, fraud and ill-manners get developed within them. Whereas, our pious predecessors’ dealings were not like that at all. How would they deal in such situations, let us listen to two parables.

1. Return my money

Once upon a time, silk cloth became expensive in Basra. When Sayyiduna Yunus Bin ‘Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to know about it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه bought silk cloth worth 30 thousand dirhams from a person. After buying it, he asked the seller, ‘Do you know that silk cloth has gone expensive at such and such a place?’ He said, ‘No. Had I known, I wouldn’t have sold it.’ Listening to it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Take your goods and return my money.’ Therefore, he (the seller) returned his 30 thousand dirhams. (Siyar A’laam-un-Nubala, vol. 6, pp. 464)

It was undoubtedly an act of goodness from Sayyiduna Yunus Bin ‘Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to that person that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه told him about the silk cloth becoming expensive. Whereas, such people also exist in our society who take benefit from the unawareness of the other person and keep the fact of price rise concealed to themselves. In fact, some even lie saying that the price has not risen yet.

2. The way of trade of Shaykh Sari Saqati

The famous saint of the spiritual chain of the Qadiriyyah, Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the disciple of Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and the teacher and (maternal) uncle of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Initially, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to sell small ordinary things. With this relation, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is called “Saqati” (i.e. the one who sells goods in a basket).

It is narrated that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would buy and sell goods. Moreover, he would only take a half dinar profit over the sales of 10 dinars. Even if someone would give him more than that, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not take it even then. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, Juz: 1, pp. 246)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When we study the biography of our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, we find the trait of serving the community to be very prominent in their personalities; whereas, it is completely the opposite nowadays. For example, if someone comes to another person asking for his advice to adopt a certain profession, then the other person will be a bit reluctant in providing him the information regarding his very profession.

Cheat and deception have become so common in our society that one feels scared in having business deals with someone and investing his money somewhere. Reason for his lack of trust is due to his own past experiences or observations. One saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: Such a time came upon people when a person would enter the market and ask (the people of the market) that ‘who do you think I shall trade with?’ They would reply, ‘Trade with whomsoever you like to.’ Then such time came upon them that the reply would be, ‘Trade with whomsoever you like to but do not trade with so and so.’ Then the time came upon them in which the reply would be, ‘Do not trade with anyone except so and so.’ Now I fear for such time to come where such people will also depart.

After mentioning this saying, Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: What that saint was scared of, it has now happened (i.e. such people have now departed this world). (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 111)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Some highlights of the life of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم

Dear Islamic brothers! We were listening about Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the Imam [leader] of all his contemporary scholars and worshippers of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the uncle of the blessed mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Allah Almighty blessed him with the rank of Nubuwwah. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, 65, 66; summarised)

Let us listen to the parable of him making Du’a for offspring:

It is narrated that wives of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were real sisters [i.e. Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had the same father-in-law]. The name of the wife of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was Aeesha [ اِیشا ], whereas the name of the wife of Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was Hannah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Sayyidatuna Hannah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remained childless for a very long time, to the extent that she became old and felt hopeless. One day, Sayyidatuna Hannah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw a sparrow under the shade of a tree who was feeding its baby sparrow. Seeing this rose the urge of having offspring in her heart and she supplicated in the court of Allah Almighty that ‘O Allah Almighty! If You bless me with offspring, I will make him the servant of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and will present him for this very service.’

In that era, only boys were accepted for serving Bayt-ul-Muqaddas and girls were not deemed to be capable of it. When she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا vowed this oath, then Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became extremely worried. That’s why he said, ‘What have you done? If a girl is born, then how would she be able to do this?’ Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away before the birth of his child.

(Tafseer Khaazin, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 35, vol. 1, pp. 244; summarised)

Look at the majesty of Allah Almighty that a girl was born instead of a boy. Upon this, Sayyidatuna Hannah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا expressed grief. She was grieved and wistful because a daughter was born and she was now unable to fulfil her vow. However, Allah Almighty showered special bounties upon her. Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was superior to all her contemporary women of the world and was blessed with the honour of being the mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . (Tafseer Baghawi, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 36, vol. 1, pp. 227)

Allah Almighty accepted Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا instead of a boy as an offering (نذر) and brought her up in an excellent manner. It happened like this after her (Sayyidatuna Maryam’s) birth, Sayyidatuna Hannah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا wrapped her in a piece of cloth and presented her to the scholars of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas so that they could take her into their guardianship. Those scholars were considered to be extremely reverend and respectful. Those scholars

were total 27 in numbers. They were from the descendants of Sayyiduna Haroon عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and were appointed at serving the Bayt-ul-Muqaddas. Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the daughter of Sayyiduna ‘Imran رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who was a prominent scholar among those scholars. Moreover, her family was also an extremely illustrious and learned family in Bani Israel. That’s why all those scholars showed a keen interest in adopting Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘I am most deserving of it because her aunt (mother’s sister) is in my house.’

After arguments and discussions with each other, they all agreed to draw lots to come to a decision. Therefore, they drew lots through the pens they used to write Taurah (تورات شریف) with. It was mutually agreed that everyone should place his pen in water. The one whose pen starts flowing in the opposite direction of the flow of water, he will be deserving of the guardianship. Everyone placed their pens in water. Sayyiduna Zakariyya’s pen started flowing in the opposite direction of the water. So this is how Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا came under his guardianship. (Tafseer Kabeer, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 44, vol. 3, pp. 219; Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 473)

Upbringing of Sayyidatuna Maryam and heavenly fruits

Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا kept growing very fast compared to the other children. Allah Almighty blessed her with immense dignity. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would get unseasonal fruits that would come from the Heaven. Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was not breastfed by any woman. When Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would go to Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would find unseasonal fruits there. Once, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام questioned Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, ‘Where do you get these fruits from?’ Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied, ‘It is from Allah Almighty.’ Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا spoke these words at the time when she was still being brought up in the cradle. When Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام thought to himself that the One Who is providing Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with unseasonal fruits and dry fruits without any apparent means, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will bless my wife with a new health and bless me with a son in this old age after my hopes for offspring have died. With this

thought in his mind, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a for pure offspring right there, i.e. in the arch of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, by shutting the doors. (Tafseer Khaazin, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 37, vol. 1, pp. 246)

When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام supplicated for offspring, he was 120 years old at that time and his wife was 98 years old. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 470)

The event of him making Du’a in the arch of Maryam has been mentioned in the Glorious Quran. Therefore, Allah Almighty states in part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah no. 38 and 39:

هُنَالِكَ دَعَا زَكَرِیَّا رَبَّهٗۚ-قَالَ رَبِّ هَبْ لِیْ مِنْ لَّدُنْكَ ذُرِّیَّةً طَیِّبَةًۚ-اِنَّكَ سَمِیْعُ الدُّعَآءِ(۳۸) فَنَادَتْهُ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ وَ هُوَ قَآىٕمٌ یُّصَلِّیْ فِی الْمِحْرَابِۙ-اَنَّ اللّٰهَ یُبَشِّرُكَ بِیَحْیٰى مُصَدِّقًۢا بِكَلِمَةٍ مِّنَ اللّٰهِ وَ سَیِّدًا وَّ حَصُوْرًا وَّ نَبِیًّا مِّنَ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ(۳۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: At that place, Zakariyya supplicated to his Lord. He requested, ‘O my Lord! Give me from Your Court a righteous offspring. Indeed, only You are the Acceptor of supplication.’ And whilst he was praying in a standing position at his place of worship, the angels called out to him, ‘Indeed Allah gives you glad tidings of Yahya (John), who will verify a Word from Allah (Prophet ‘Isa); a leader, and always refraining from women, a Prophet from one of Our selected individuals.’

The Du’a of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was accepted. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام suddenly saw a young man in white clothes in the same arch where he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was engaged in Salah and supplication despite all doors being shut. He was Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام gave him the glad tidings of a son (and also told him the name that) his name will be Yahya. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 469; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We gain a few Madani pearls from the aforementioned event:

1. One shall never be despair of the mercy of Allah Almighty. Rather, one shall keep supplicating in His court with the hope that my Du’a will definitely be answered sooner or later.

2. Parents shall supplicate in the favour of their children as the Du’a of parents is accepted in the favour of their children.

3. Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام supplicated for pious offspring. So we came to know that we shall not supplicate for only offspring as it can also turn into a great test for us. Therefore, we shall supplicate for pious offspring with a righteous character who become practicing Muslims so that they can become a means of salvation and forgiveness for us in this world and the Hereafter.

4. The place where the pious people of Allah Almighty perform worship becomes so sacred that the Du’as asked there get accepted quicker in the court of Allah Almighty.

5. Du’as get accepted at the places where the pious people of Allah Almighty perform worship for few days. So the Du’as will also definitely be accepted near their blessed shrines where they are resting themselves.

6. The beloved mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, was a (female) saint possessing saintly miracles and Allah Almighty blessed her with immense dignity and grandeur.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Virtues of Sayyiduna Yahya

Dear Islamic brothers! The apple of the eyes of Sayyiduna Zakariyya, Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, is a highly dignified Nabi of Allah Almighty. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the beloved son and heir of Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . It is narrated

that Allah Almighty kept the name of Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام Himself and no one before him was ever named Yahya. (Tareekh Dimashq, vol. 64, pp. 169)

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا states: Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام used to be extremely obedient to his parents. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was the one who would obey Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty had blessed him with intellect and wisdom in his childhood. (Tareekh Dimashq, vol. 64, pp. 173)

In his childhood, when children would call him to play, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would say: We have not been created to play. (Tareekh Dimashq, vol. 64, pp. 183)

Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would always remain restless out of the fear of Allah Almighty. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would cry so abundantly that constant flowing of tears left marks on his blessed cheeks.

Trees and stones would also cry

It is stated on page no. 45 of the book called ‘ Khauf-e-Khuda ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: When Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would stand up to offer Salah, then he would cry so much (due to the fear of Allah Almighty) that trees and clods of earth would also start crying with him. Seeing this, even his honourable father, Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, would also start crying, to the extent that he would get unconscious. The constant flowing of tears had wounded the blessed cheeks of Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . His beloved mother would place woollen strips on his blessed cheeks. Whenever he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would stand up to offer Salah, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would start crying which would result in those woollen strips getting soaked. When his beloved mother would squeeze out the woollen strips to dry them out and when he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would see his tears falling on the arm of his mother, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would implore in the court of Allah Almighty in the following words, ‘O Allah Almighty! These are my tears. This is my mother and I am Your bondman, whereas You are the most Merciful.’

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 225; summarised)

There is a valley between Heaven and Hell

It is narrated that once, Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got lost somewhere. His honourable father, Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, kept looking for him for three days. Finally, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was seen at a place in such a state that he was standing in a dug grave and crying. Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘O my dear son! I am looking for you from three days and you are crying standing in the grave here?’ Sayyiduna Yahya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said, ‘Dear father! Didn’t you tell me that there is a valley between Heaven and Hell? Only he can cross it who weeps in abundance and is engrossed in the fear of Allah Almighty.’ Listening to this reply, Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘My son! Cry.’ After saying this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام also started to weep along with him.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 493, Hadees 809)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Weeping in the fear of Allah Almighty is a great virtuous act. It is a great privilege. If only we could also seriously shed tears in the fear of Allah Almighty and love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . For this purpose, one should attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Muzakarahs, Madani Halqahs of ‘Ilm-e-Deen (religious knowledge) and Ijtima’aat of Zikr-o-Na’at from beginning to end. You never know when someone’s heart melts. He is overtaken by an emotional state and starts shedding tears out of the fear of Allah Almighty. The mercy of Allah Almighty envelops him and for the sake of the sincerity of that sincere person, every Muslim present there gets forgiven.

From the following Hadees, you can get a gist of those numerous people who attained forgiveness due to the blessings of the one who wept in a righteous Ijtima’. Therefore, once the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم delivered a sermon. One person among the attendees cried. Seeing this, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Had all those believers been presented among you today whose sins are equal to the size of mountains, then they would have been forgiven due to the weeping of this one person; because even angels were weeping with him

and were making the Du’a, ‘ اَللّٰہُمَّ شَفِّعِ الْبَکَّائِیْنَ فِیْمَنْ لَّمْ یَبْكِ ’ i.e. O Allah Almighty! Accept the intercession of the crying ones in the favour of the non-crying ones. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 494, Hadees 810)

Listen to two blessed Ahadees on the virtue of weeping in the fear of Allah Almighty.

1. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who cries out of the fear of Allah Almighty, Allah Almighty will forgive him. (Ibn-e-‘Adee, vol. 5, pp. 396)

2. Sayyiduna ‘Uqbah Bin ‘Aamir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is salvation?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Keep your tongue protected (i.e. use your tongue where it benefits you, not where it harms you), your home should suffice you (i.e. do not leave the home unnecessarily) and adopt crying over sins.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 182, Hadees 2414)

“Madani Halqah after Fajr”, one Madani activity out of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! It is very important to adopt the company of righteous people in order to attain the treasure of the fear of Allah Almighty and to develop the mind-set of performing virtuous deeds. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is a great source of attaining the righteous company. Therefore, you should also associate yourself with this Madani environment and actively take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One Madani activity out of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also the “Madani Halqah after Fajr”. In this Madani Halqah, everyday after Fajr Salah, 3 Ayahs of the Holy Quran with the translation of Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan / Noor-ul-‘Irfan / Siraat-ul-Jinaan, Madani Dars (Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, 4 pages) and Shajarah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah Ziyaiyyah is also read at the end. After this, few Awraad and Wazaif are recited from the Shajarah and Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht are also offered.

In order to obtain detailed information regarding the Madani activity of “Madani Halqah after Fajr”, read the booklet ‘ Ba’d-e-Fajr Madani Halqah ’ of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All Islamic brothers should definitely read this booklet. This booklet is available on the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami.

By the virtue of this booklet, you will be able to read the following:

1. What is the Madani Halqah after Fajr?

2. Method of conducting the Madani Halqah

3. Madani Halqahs of righteous predecessors

4. Explanation regarding the tasks of the Madani Halqah

5. Useful facts regarding Faizan-e-Sunnat

6. Blessings of reciting the blessed Shajarah

7. Benefits of Du’a

8. Blessings of Ishraq and Chasht

9. Benefits of conducting the Madani Halqah

10. Few precautions of conducting the Madani Halqah etc.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭, due to the blessings of the Madani Halqah, one obtains the reward of sitting in a Masjid.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one obtains the privilege of reciting and listening to the recitation of the Holy Quran.

٭ Madani Halqah after Fajr is a great source of understanding the Glorious Quran with translation and commentary.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one acts upon the Madani In’amaat.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one gets the opportunity of offering the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht.

٭ In the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one gets the privilege of listening to the blessed Shajarah that consists of the blessed Zikr of the righteous

predecessors which is a means of mercy. Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Mercy descends when the Zikr of righteous people is done. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Raqm 10750)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Various Islamic brothers’ problems have been resolved due to the blessings of this blessed Shajarah that consists of the blessed Zikr of the righteous predecessors. For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable.

Domestic conflicts ended

An Islamic sister of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) had severe domestic problems in her house. There would be conflicts and disputes every now and then which had ruined the peace of the house. She was extremely worried because of this situation. There seemed no solution for peace to restore in the house. In the meanwhile, by the spiritual sight of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, she thought of reciting Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, ‘Attariyyah. As soon as this thought struck her mind, she started reciting the blessed Shajarah with the intention of the alleviation of the domestic conflicts. With the blessings of reciting Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, ‘Attariyyah, her domestic conflicts ended and peace prevailed in her house.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction of Sayyidatuna Maryam

Dear Islamic brothers! We heard about Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا at the beginning of the Bayan. Let us listen further about her.

Remember! The mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, is also among the righteous people of Allah Almighty. Maryam means ‘Aabidah (devout [female] worshipper) and Khadimah (maid). (Tafseer Baghawi, Aal-e-‘Imran, Taht-al-Ayah: 1, vol. 36, pp. 227)

Sayyidatuna Maryam’s father’s name was ‘Imran and her mother’s name was Hannah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, 65)

Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a Waliyyah by birth. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 10, pp. 605)

There is no other woman whose name has been mentioned in the Holy Quran except Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 10, pp. 231)

Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the leader of Heavenly women. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Four women are the leaders of the heavenly women: (1) Maryam (2) Fatimah (3) Khadijah and (4) Aasiyah(رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ عَـنْهُنَّ اَجْـمَعِیْن). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 12, pp. 65, Hadees 34401)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه! Did you hear that how highly ranked and the dignified woman was the beloved mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, whose virtues have been mentioned in the blessed Ahadees. Moreover, she would be blessed with the privilege of being the wife of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-un-Na’eem. Her dignity is so elevated and exalted that saintly miracles started to manifest from her even when Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was still in her blessed womb.

Saintly miracle of Sayyidatuna Maryam

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا without a father. When the time of birth approached, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا came out of the populated area and sat in seclusion beneath a dry date tree. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born beneath that very tree. The reason because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to an unmarried Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا without a father, that’s why she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was extremely worried and distressed. She was not going back to her town with the fear of facing people’s obscene slanders and taunts. She was sitting beneath a dry date tree at such a desolated place where there was nothing to eat or drink. All of a sudden, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام descended and made a lake flow by striking his heel on the ground. Moreover, the dry date tree became lush green and produced ripe fruits.

Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام called Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and spoke to her in the following manner:

فَنَادٰىهَا مِنْ تَحْتِهَاۤ اَلَّا تَحْزَنِیْ قَدْ جَعَلَ رَبُّكِ تَحْتَكِ سَرِیًّا(۲۴) وَ هُزِّیْۤ اِلَیْكِ بِجِذْعِ النَّخْلَةِ تُسٰقِطْ عَلَیْكِ رُطَبًا جَنِیًّا٘(۲۵) فَكُلِیْ وَ اشْرَبِیْ وَ قَرِّیْ عَیْنًاۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: (The angel) therefore called her from underneath (the date-tree); that, ‘Do not grieve, undoubtedly your Lord has made a stream flow below you. And grab the trunk of the date-tree and shake it towards you; fresh ripe dates will fall upon you. So eat and drink and keep your eyes cool (because of your son).’ (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 24, 25, 26)

Dear Islamic brothers! Dry tree producing ripe fruits and sudden flowing of the lake are both undoubtedly saintly miracles of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . When Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a child and used to worship in the arch of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, she used to get unseasonal fruits there without any efforts. However, after the birth of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا did actually get the ripe dates but Allah Almighty commanded her to shake the date trunk, then she would get the dates. So we come to know that until a person remains childless, he gets sustenance without striving for it as well and does manage to eat and drink from somewhere. But when a person becomes a parent, then it is necessary for him to earn his livelihood by striving for it. You see until Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remained childless, she was provided with the sustenance of fruits in her arch of worship without any struggle and effort. But when her beloved son, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born, then Allah Almighty commanded her to make efforts by shaking the date tree. Then you will get the dates. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, 167; summarised)

Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that what great virtues and various sorts of saintly miracles Allah Almighty blessed Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with. Therefore, we shall also try to remain associated with the righteous

people of Allah Almighty because the one who loves them or is associated with them never gets deprived. In order to develop the dignity, love and attain spiritual blessings of the blessed Awliya, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami and support Dawat-e-Islami in propagating the message of Deen all around.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, Dawat-e-Islami is engaged in spreading the call towards righteousness in more or less 104 departments. One among them is ‘Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah’. This department has been established to provide Madani Tarbiyyah [edification] to those devotees of Rasool who embark upon the journey of Hajj and ‘Umrah.

The trained Muballighin [preachers] of this department go in the Haji camps every year during the month of Hajj and provide Hajis [pilgrims] with the Madani Tarbiyyah. Whereas, Muballighat [female preachers] provide Madani Tarbiyyah to the female pilgrims.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, under this department, those who travel to Makkah and Madinah to perform Hajj and visit the blessed Madinah, the books ‘ Rafiq-ul-Haramayn ’ and ‘ Rafiq-ul-Mu’tamireen ’ authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه are also gifted to them so that the guests of Allah Almighty and the ardent devotees of the Holy Rasool can succeed in fulfilling this act of worship in the best of the manners. May Allah Almighty bless ‘Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah’ further.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Attributes of Sayyidatuna Maryam

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is that fortunate woman whose name has been mentioned in the Holy Quran. No other woman’s name has been mentioned in the Glorious Quran except hers.

Allah Almighty mentioned the dignity of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا in the Holy Quran in the following manner:

وَ اِذْ قَالَتِ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ یٰمَرْیَمُ اِنَّ اللّٰهَ اصْطَفٰىكِ وَ طَهَّرَكِ وَ اصْطَفٰىكِ عَلٰى نِسَآءِ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ(۴۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And (remember) when the angels said, ‘O Maryam! Indeed Allah has chosen you and purified you well, and today (in your era), exalted you above all the women of the world.’

(Part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 42)

It is stated in the Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan that this Ayah mentions the dignity of Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Allah Almighty chose her for various virtues. For example, despite being a woman, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was accepted as the fulfilment of the vow for the serving of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, whereas only men used to be chosen for it. So this privilege was not granted to any other woman except her. Heavenly sustenance was sent down for her. Sayyiduna Zakariyya عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was made her guardian (responsible for her upbringing) and Allah Almighty made her hear these attributes through angels. Allah Almighty made Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا free from sins and free from the fact of men overpowering her. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was given superiority over the women of the entire world as she was given a child without a father and was made to hear the angels. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 474)

Conversed in the childhood

Dear Islamic brothers! When Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا came to the town of Bani Israeel with Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in her lap, then her nation severely criticised her and spoke ill of her. Sayyidatuna Maryam رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘Ask this child everything.’ Upon this, people said, ‘What, why and how shall we converse with this child? He is a child.’ Listening to this, Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام started conversing. Allah Almighty described it in the Holy Quran in the following words:

قَالَ اِنِّیْ عَبْدُ اللّٰهِ ﳴ اٰتٰىنِیَ الْكِتٰبَ وَ جَعَلَنِیْ نَبِیًّاۙ(۳۰) وَّ جَعَلَنِیْ مُبٰرَكًا اَیْنَ مَا كُنْتُ۪-وَ اَوْصٰنِیْ بِالصَّلٰوةِ وَ الزَّكٰوةِ مَا دُمْتُ حَیًّاﳚ(۳۱) وَّ بَرًّۢا بِوَالِدَتِیْ٘-وَ لَمْ یَجْعَلْنِیْ جَبَّارًا شَقِیًّا(۳۲) وَ السَّلٰمُ عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ وُلِدْتُّ وَ یَوْمَ اَمُوْتُ وَ یَوْمَ اُبْعَثُ حَیًّا(۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The child (‘Isa) said, ‘I am Allah’s bondsman, He has given me the Book and made me a conveyer of the unseen news (a Prophet). And He has made me blessed; wherever I may be, and ordained upon me Salah and Zakah, for as long as I live. And (He has made me) dutiful to my mother and has not made me hostile, unfortunate. And that peace (same as Yahya) be upon me the day I was born, and on the day I shall pass away, and on the day I will be raised alive.’ (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 30-33)

Dear Islamic brothers! This is the Prophetic miracle of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that he conversed eloquently straight after his birth. In this conversation, the first thing he said was that: ‘ I am the bondman of Allah Almighty ’, so that no one could call him either god or god’s son; because people were going to slander him in future which would have been slandering Allah Almighty. Hence, his rank of Risalah required him to remove the false allegation against Allah Almighty first which was going to be placed in future before he could clear the false allegation against his blessed mother.

اَللّٰەُ اَکْبَر! It is true that whomsoever Allah Almighty blesses with the privilege of Nubuwwah, his birth is extremely sacred, pure and chaste. Moreover, distinct signs of Nubuwwah start reflecting from him right from his childhood.

(‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 170; summarised)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the speech of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, we also obtained the Madani pearl that offering Salah, paying Zakah and treating your mother nicely are ancient acts of worship and favourite ways of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, these are such beautiful acts of worship that the blessed Shari’ah has also commanded us about. But alas! Now Masajid are empty and evil places are enlivened. People make lame excuses when it comes to paying Zakah. Those who deserve to receive Zakah are compelled to beg door to door. Same mother beneath whose feet lies Paradise faces ill-treatment. After all, what has happened to Muslims? When

will our Masajid get filled again? When will the number of Salah-offering people increase? Until when will people remain heedless in paying their Zakah? After all, until when will this all continue like this? All Islamic brothers make the intention that we will offer all 5 Salahs with Jama’at, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of drinking water

Two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

a. Do not drink (water) all at once like a camel does, rather drink in two or three sips (while breathing away from the glass). Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before you drink and say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ when you finish.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 352, Hadees 1892)

b. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us to breathe into the vessel or to blow into it. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 3728)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, H akeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said in his commentary of this Hadees: To breathe into the vessel is an act of animals. Furthermore, the breath, sometimes, may be poisonous therefore one should breathe moving the mouth away from the vessel (i.e. to take the mouth away from the glass while breathing). Do not cool hot milk by blowing it, wait for some time, and drink it when it is a bit cool. (Mirat, vol. 6, pp. 77) But there is no harm to blow by reciting any Ayah of the Quran or Salat-‘Alan-Nabi etc. with the intention of cure.

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of drinking water will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend these Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 13 December 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunan and manners of drinking water

1. Recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ before drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

2. Drink water in small sips, large sips cause damage to the liver.

3. Drink water in three breaths.

4. Drink water with the right hand whilst sitting.

5. Look into the utensil before drinking water ensuring that nothing harmful is in it. (Ithaf-us-Sadah liz-Zabeedi, vol. 5, pp. 594)

6. Recite اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ after drinking (water, beverages, etc.).

7. The leftover clean water of a Muslim should not be thrown away.

8. The leftover of a Muslim is cure [1] .

9. After some moments of drinking the water, if you observe the empty glass, some drops of water will be found collected at the bottom trickling down from its inner sides, drink them as well.

Du’a of staying protected from scorpions and other poisonous insects

اَعُـوْذُ بِكَلِمَاتِ اللّٰہِ التَّـآمَّـاتِ مِـنْ شَـرِّ مَـا خَلَقَ سَلٰمٌ عَلٰى نُوْحٍ فِی الْعٰلَمِیْنَ (۷۹)

Translation: I seek refuge of the accomplished and perfect words of Allah Almighty from the evil of every creation. May Salam be upon Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and the people of the world. (Khazinah-e-Rahmat, pp. 153)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

