اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of the blessed daughters of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَ يْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The famous Hadees book Tirmizi states: The Most Glorious Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared: اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً ‘The closest individual to me on Judgement day shall be the one who recited Durood upon me in the largest quantity.’ (Sunan-e-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27 Hadees 484)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Hadrat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه elaborates on this Hadees: The most tranquil human on judgement day shall be whoever is closest to the Glorious Messenger of Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the route to acquiring close proximity to Allah’s Messenger صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an abundance of Durood recitation. This illustrates that the recitation of Durood is an incredibly virtuous deed; since all other deeds lead to Paradise, yet this leads to the groom of Paradise . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 100)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed offspring of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Rabi’ ul Awwal is among us. The slogans of Marhaba Ya Mustafa are resounding everywhere. The virtues, excellence, Prophetic miracles and attributes of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are being mentioned all over the world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Allah Almighty also blessed His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the blessing of sons and daughters. So in this regard, today, we will listen to the blessed account of the blessed daughters of our beloved master, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and be privileged to listen about the different aspects of their Seerah.

Remember! The number of the blessed offspring of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is seven. Three sons and four daughters رِضْوانُ اللہِ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن . (Sharah-ul-Mawahib, vol. 4, pp. 313) Out of all these seven offspring, only one of his sons, Sayyiduna Ibraheem رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, was born to Sayyidatuna Mariyah Qibtiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, and the remaining of the blessed offspring were born to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 687)

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the eldest daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, let’s listen about her blessed account first.

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born ten years before the declaration of Nubuwwah in Makkah-tul-Mukarramah when the blessed age of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was thirty years. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was brought up by none other than Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was extremely pious and an embodiment of piety. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was an embodiment of patience and someone who showed immense gratitude. Just imagine! Someone who would have been brought up by none other than the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself, how great would be her blessed manners. What great habits she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would have and what great attributes and excellence she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would possess.

Dear Islamic brothers! Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that sacred personality who has been made to face a lot of hardships in the path of Allah Almighty. He was oppressed in different ways. All limits of oppressions and tyrannies were crossed. The tyrannies and oppressions of those cruel people increased

to such an extent that they not only crossed all limits in afflicting oppressions and tyrannies upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم alone, but they did so upon everyone who was also associated with him. The beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, is also among those oppressed individuals who suffered the oppression and cruelties of the disbelievers.

Fell off the camel

Husband of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, Abul ‘Aas Bin Rabi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, sent her to Madinah-e-Munawwarah after the battle of Badr. When the disbelievers of Makkah found out about her departure, they went in her pursuit to the extent that they found her in the place called Zi-Tuwa. Habbar Bin Aswad struck Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with a spear which made her fall off her camel, resulting in her miscarriage.

(Seerat-un-Nubuwwah Li-Ibn Hishaam, pp. 270 - 271)

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became severely grieved over this incident. Therefore, mentioning her virtues, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ ھِیَ اَفْضَلُ بَنَاتِیْ اُصِیْبَتْ فِیَّ ’ i.e. She is superior among my daughters from the aspect of suffering such great hardship while migrating to me. (Al-Mawahib Ladduniyyah; Az Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318 – 319; Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 455 - 456) She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away in the 8 th Hijri. Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Ayman, Sayyidatuna Saudah Bint-e-Zam ’ah and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salamah رَضِیَ اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَنْہُنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن gave her ghusl (ritual bath). May we be sacrificed upon her dignity, greatness and fortune that not only did the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم give his blessed tahband for her shroud but also lowered her in the grave with his own blessed hands after leading her funeral Salah. (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had so much love and compassion for his blessed daughter that even after her demise, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم kept blessing her. It is as if Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told the Muslims of the entire world until the Day of Judgement that a daughter deserves love and compassion, not hatred. We have come to know that the beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم,

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, was targeted for the cruellest of the oppressions and tyrannies. May we get sacrificed! Despite all this, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا still remained steadfast, showed patience upon the calamity and remained expressing gratitude to Allah Almighty. Therefore, if we ever encounter a calamity or face any hardship in the path of Allah Almighty, then we shall also show patience while having trust in Allah Almighty. Various virtues have been mentioned in the blessed Ahadees for observing patience over calamities. For persuasion, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop a habit of observing patience over calamities.

1. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Whomsoever Allah Almighty intends goodness for, He Almighty afflicts calamity upon him. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 5645)

2. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Calamity is afflicted upon a person according to how religious he is. If he is firm in religion, then his calamity is also firm. And if he is weak in his religion, then Allah Almighty tests him according to his religious status. A person keeps getting afflicted with calamities to the extent that all his sins are forgiven in this world. (Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 369, Raqm 4023)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Being afflicted with calamities and challenges is not a means of hardship, but a means of mercy and privilege. Therefore, no matter how many hardships befall us, we get surrounded by calamities, troubles prevail all around us, and illnesses strike us from all corners, still we shall not utter a single word of complaint from our tongue; rather, we should develop our mindset in the following manner that if we succeed in observing patience over these calamities, then we will deserve such great and illustrious rewards from Allah Almighty on the Day of Judgement that people will be envious over them.

Those in peace will wish…

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: On the Day of Judgement, when ill and grieved people will be rewarded, then those in peace would wish that only if! Our skins were cut with scissors in the world. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 180, Hadees 2410) I.e. they would wish that such illnesses should have befallen us in

the world in which our skins were cut through an operation so that we could also attain the reward today that is being given to other ill and grieved people. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 424)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The way Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her beloved daughter Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, similarly, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also immensely compassionate and kind towards her blessed offspring.

Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم love for Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Out of the offspring of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, there was a son named ‘Ali’ and a daughter named ‘Umamah’ . ‘Ali’ got martyred in the ‘battle of Yarmook’. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immensely loved Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . When the king of Abyssinia sent a garment and a precious ring as a gift in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave that ring to Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Similarly, once somebody gifted a very precious and beautiful necklace. All the blessed wives رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ thought that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will make Sayyidatuna Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا wear this necklace (because Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her the most among all the blessed wives رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ). But Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘I will make the one wear this necklace who is most beloved to me among my household.’ After saying this, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made his granddaughter, i.e. Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, wear that necklace. (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318 - 321)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was also one of the beloved daughters of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born 7 years before the declaration of Nubuwwah (in Makkah-e-Mukarramah). At that time, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 33 years old.

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا attained the privilege of being among the first caravan of Muslims that migrated in Islam. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 694) She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا attained the privilege of migrating twice to Abyssinia and once to Madinah. (Tareekh-e-Damashq, vol. 3, pp. 151) Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married her to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Both these husband and wife first migrated towards Abyssinia and then towards Madinah, and were blessed with the title of Sahib-ul-Hijratayn (i.e. those who migrated twice).

Dear Islamic brothers! Before Islam, wives used to be severely oppressed. They used to get beaten up and their rights were usurped. When Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to this world as a mercy, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only stressed upon the husbands to treat their wives nicely but also mentioned them the virtues of treating their wives nicely. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding treating wives nicely:

3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding treating wives nicely

1. Best among you is the one who is best for his household, and I am best for my household among you all. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 475, Hadees 3921)

2. The best among you all is the one who is good to his wives and daughters. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 415, Hadees 8720)

3. No believer shall consider any believer wife to be enemy. If he is displeased of any of her habits, then he will be pleased with any other habit. (Muslim, pp. 775, Hadees 1469)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What beautiful teaching (he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has taught). The purpose of saying this is that it is impossible to find a flawless wife. Therefore, even if you find a few flaws in the wife, then bear it as you will find a few attributes (in her) as well. Author of Mirqaat (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) states here that the one who remains in the search of a flawless companion will end up being on his own in this world. We ourselves have thousands of

flaws. Forgive the flaws of every friend and loved one. Look at their virtues, yet do strive to reform them. Flawless is only Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 5, pp. 87)

Dear Islamic brothers! Not all the habits of a person are bad for sure. If there are some bad ones, then there are some good ones too. Therefore, rather than being furious, beating, divorcing or threatening to kick wives out of the house upon petty issues, keep their virtues in mind too. For example, one shall think that if I am displeased upon some of the matters of my wife, then there are some that are good too! Moreover, it is also necessary to have a relationship established with the wife too and arguing and fighting all the time will affect this relationship. Therefore, if I show patience over the troubles I receive from my wife, then I will be deserving of reward. Similarly, the wife should also show patience upon the troubles received from her husband and earn reward.

Reward like the reward of the patience of Ayyub عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم and Aasiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who showed patience over the bad manners of his wife, Allah Almighty will reward him like Sayyiduna Ayyub عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ’s reward for his observance of patience over the calamity. If the woman observes patience over the bad manners of her husband, Allah Almighty will reward her like the reward of the wife of Pharaoh, Aasiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . (Al-Kaba’ir-ul-Zahbi, pp. 206)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Dear Islamic brothers! After the demise of Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married (another of his daughters) Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in 3 Hijri. Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away in 9 Hijri. This very beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also honoured with the privilege that her blessed father, Holy Rasool صَلَّى

اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led her funeral Salah himself and laid her to rest in the graveyard of Madinah-e-Munawwarah, ‘Jannat-ul-Baqi’ . (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 325 - 327)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Muzakarah’, one out of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami a Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, reverence to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and other sacred personalities and having love for them is taught, and a mindset is given to act upon their blessed Seerah. Therefore, remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time and act upon the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah in your area. One Madani activity out of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also ‘Madani Muzakarah’ .

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَل, by the virtue of the blessing of watching and listening to ‘Madani Muzakarahs’, one develops the mindset to remain cautious in the matters of Shari’ah.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains the company of the devotees of Rasool.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one’s passion to become practicing increases.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one develops hatred towards sins.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains steadfastness in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one gets information regarding the Madani activities of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, ‘Dawat-e-Islami’ .

٭ Madani Muzakarah is a means for an increase in the knowledge of Deen.

٭ Madani Muzakarah is a great source of attaining Madani Tarbiyyat from hundreds, rather thousands of experiences of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ ’s life.

٭ Along with acquiring the knowledge of Deen, one also undergoes character building in the Madani Muzakarah.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one acquires the knowledge of Deen in the form of interesting answers given to different questions asked from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . Moreover, the excellence of acquiring the knowledge of Deen goes without saying!

Superior to one thousand Nawafil

Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghiffari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me: O Abu Zar! The advent of morning upon you in the state that you learned one Ayah of the Book of Allah Almighty is better for you than offering one hundred Nawafil. And the advent of morning upon you in the state that you learned one chapter of ‘ ilm (Islamic knowledge), whether it was acted upon or not, is better for you than offering one thousand Nawafil. (Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 142, Hadees 219)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Various Islamic brothers have repented of their sinful lives due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah. Let’s make an intention that we will also ensure watching of ‘Madani Muzakarah’ every week and will also keep inviting other Islamic brothers to watch the Madani Muzakarah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Other than on weekly basis, Madani Muzakarahs are also conducted on different occasions, such as 10 Madani Muzakarahs in Muharram-ul-Haraam, 12 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, 11 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir, 2 Madani Muzakarahs daily in the month of Ramadhan, 10 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Zul Hijja tul Haraam, etc.

Out of the 12 Madani activities, in order to learn in detail about the Madani activity of ‘Madani Muzakarah’, read the booklet ‘Haftawar Madani Muzakarah’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All Zimmahdars of Dawat-e-Islami, especially the Nigran and members of the weekly Madani Muzakarah Majlis,

should definitely read this booklet. Along with being available at Maktaba-tul-Madinah, this booklet can also be read and downloaded free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of reading this booklet, you will be able to know:

٭ The harmful effects of not acquiring ‘ilm.

٭ Importance of asking a question in the Madani Muzakarah.

٭ Ways of participating in the Ijtima of Madani Muzakarah.

٭ Detail about Madani Muzakarahs till date.

٭ Madani pearls of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura regarding Madani Muzakarah.

٭ Questions and answers consisting of the precautions and useful information regarding Madani Muzakarah.

٭ Shar’i and organizational precautions regarding Madani Muzakarah, etc.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable regarding a person who associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Traveller of Madani Qafilah

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who eat less applying the Madani guard to their stomach, feel less thirst compared to those who eat in excess. Because of drinking less water, they do not have the need to sleep in excess and such people are more energetic after sleeping for only a few hours.

Once, during the early days of Dawat-e-Islami, our Madani Qafilah travelled to Punjab from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi, Pakistan). In this Qafilah, there was an old person with a white beard who revealed to me (i.e. the author) during the journey that his Wudu had been valid for the past two days. He also revealed that his late Murshid used to remain in the state of Wudu for fifteen days. All this is the blessing of applying the Madani guard to the stomach. By doing this, the need of sleeping and that of going to toilet decrease and one can get a lot of time for worshipping and carrying out religious Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s now listen about the dearest daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Khatoon-e-Jannat’ Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا:

Brief introduction of Khatoon-e-Jannat رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

The blessed name of Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is ‘Fatimah’; blessed titles of Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا are ‘Zahra’ and ‘Batool’. The blessed childhood and every moment of her life were incredibly pure and clean. She got Tarbiyyat (upbringing) under the blessed patronage of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would listen to the sacred sayings from her blessed parents all the time. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was extremely pious, devoted worshipper and highly virtuous woman. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is known as ‘Aabida’ (worshipper), ‘Zahidah’ (ascetic) and ‘Tahirah’ (pure). (Safina-e-Nuh, pp. 14 - 15) Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was quite similar to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in blessed manners, habits, speech and character. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 466, Hadees 3898) Apart from all these beautiful aspects, Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had enormous qualities.

Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had deep devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her so much. Let’s briefly listen to some of the blessed aspects about it:

Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا as a human ‘Hoor’

When non-Muslims demanded Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to show them the splitting of the moon into two pieces, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was in the blessed womb of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا in those days. Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘What a disgrace for the one who denied our Beloved Rasool ‘Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best Rasool and Nabi.

How appreciable the saintly miracle of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was that she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا addressed her beloved mother رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا from the blessed womb of her mother in this way: ‘O beloved mother! Do not grieve and nor do you scare; undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is with my blessed father.’

When Khatoon-e-Jannat, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born, the whole atmosphere was illuminated by the blessed face of her. When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smell the pure fragrance of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say: ‘ فَاطِمَۃُ حَوْرَاءُاِنْسِیّۃٍ ’ Fatimah [ رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ] is a human Hoor [Heavenly maiden].’

(Ar-Raud-ul-Faiq Fi-Mawaiz-ul-War-Riqaiq, pp. 274)

Resemblance to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and manner of conversation

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Ayesha رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘I have not seen anyone more similar to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in habits, manners, Seerah and character than Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’ (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 454, Hadees 5217)

In another narration, it is stated, Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Ayesha رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘I have not seen anyone more similar to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the way of talking and sitting than Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’ (Al-Adab-ul-Mufrid, pp. 255, Hadees 974)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Khatoon-e-Jannat was a true picture (resemblance) of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but rather picture merely gives an outline of face [whereas] she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the perfect example of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in blessed Seerah and habits too. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 365)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a great majesty she has! The blessed way of walking, standing up, sitting down and even the way of talking of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was according to the blessed way of the blessed father ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’.

May we also spend our lives in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ acting upon the blessed Seerah (way of living) of Khatoon-e-Jannat Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ; may we become the coolness of the eyes of our parents, may we behave everyone gracefully, gently and with goodness; may we become helpful to others in the time of their trouble and distress; may we adorn our

physical appearance according to Sunnah and may we protect our Batin [inner-self] from jealousy, arrogance, slandering and evil presumption.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! May our heart and life be sacrificed on the beloved daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا! She had a very deep yearning for the betterment of Muslim Ummah. Sometimes she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would make Du’as during the entire night for the grieved Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She would not make any request in the court of Allah Almighty for her ease and luxury, but rather she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would do household chores during the whole day and in the night she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would worship Allah Almighty and remain busy reciting the Holy Quran abundantly.

Worship should be like this!

Sayyiduna Imam Hassan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I saw my mother Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا that she would continue to offer Salah at the Mahrab of Masjid-e-Bayt (a specific place at home where Salah is offered) in the night until Fajr. I heard her making Du’as for Muslim men and women abundantly. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would not make any Du’a for herself. I humbly said: Dear mother! Why do you not make any Du’a for yourself? She replied: First neighbour then home. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 461)

Let’s have the privilege to listen to the sayings of blessed companions about Sayyidah Khatoon-e-Jannat’s yearning for recitation.

Recitation even despite being busy

Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once I went to Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا by the order of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I saw that blessed Hasnayn-e-Karimayn were sleeping. She was fanning them and reciting the Holy Quran. Having seen it I broke into tears. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 35)

Recitation even during cooking

Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyidah Khatoon-e-Jannat رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would continue to recite the Holy Quran even during cooking. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 35)

Dear Islamic brothers! You must have noticed that Khatoon-e-Jannat Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was so eager to recite the Holy Quran and perform worship that she would perform worship day and night and used to recite the Holy Quran even during her household chores. Alas! Today many young people remain busy with their work by listening to songs using earphones throughout the day and they also keep singing. Women listen to songs while doing household chores; it seems as if they could not do their household chores without listening to songs and music. May we be privileged to spend our nights performing worship! May we not spend any moment of ours in useless activities! May we spend every moment of ours doing Zikr and reciting Salat and Salam resulting in the blessing! May we get rid of our bad habit of listening to vulgar songs and music and singing! May we do Zikr and recite Salat and Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all the time whether we are busy with household chores or traveling!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is usually observed that the higher a person gets a post the better he spends his life; he eats better food, wears nice dresses, lives in expensive houses and travels by splendid cars. Similarly, his children also live a comfortable and luxurious life. But may I be sacrificed to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been blessed by the Almighty Allah with the most virtues and powers than all the creation and has been blessed with countless authorities, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم preferred Faqar and lived a life of contentment and absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Since the Lady of Paradise is the dearest daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, following in the footsteps of her father she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا preferred the same way of living her life that her blessed Beloved father صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم preferred. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable in this regard and attain the pearls of advice.

The ordeal of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyiduna Imran bin Husain رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a good opinion of me. Once he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said [to me]: O Imran! You have a special status before me! Will you come to inquire after my daughter Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ? I humbly replied: May my parents be sacrificed for you! I will definitely come. We left and reached the door of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knocked on the door and said Salam and after Salam asked permission to get in. Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied: Please come in! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There is another person with me. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا asked: Huzoor! Who is the other person? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Imran! Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: By Allah Almighty Who has sent you with truth! I am covering my entire body with only one chador. Gesturing by his blessed hand he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: You make purdah like this. She humbly said: In this way, my body is covered, but my head cannot be covered. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم threw an old chador to her and said: You cover your head with it. After this he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered the home and said Salam and after Salam said: Daughter, how are you? Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly replied: Huzoor! I have two sufferings – one related to illness and the other one related to hunger! I have no such thing by which I can satisfy my appetite. Having heard this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم wept and said: Daughter, do not worry. By Merciful Rab! My rank is higher than you in the court of Allah Almighty, but I have not eaten anything for three days. If I ask from Allah Almighty, He will surely feed me, but I have preferred the Hereafter to the world. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then placing a hand on the shoulders of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘Be happy, you are the chief of heavenly women!’ She asked: Where will Sayyidatuna Aasiyyah and Maryam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهِمَا be? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Aasiyyah is the chief of her era and you are the chief of your era; you will live in the palaces of Paradise which have no defect, no sadness and no inconvenience. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: Be happy with your paternal cousin; I have married you to the chief of the world and the Hereafter. (Mushkil-ul-Aasaar Li-Tahawi, vol. 1, pp. 36)

After almost 5 or 6 months of the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (3 rd Ramadan, 11 H) she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 54)

Dear Islamic brothers: From the above-mentioned parable we have obtained three Madani pearls.

٭ Going to daughter’s home and inquire after her after her marriage are blessed Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ Living a life full of troubles and Faqar was the optional act of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, not due to any compulsion and helplessness. That’s why he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If I ask [from Allah Almighty], He will surely feed me, but I have preferred the Hereafter to the world. Similarly, the blessed household of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also very content, patient and pleased.

٭ To remain patient on poverty and Faqar-o-Faqah and its persuasion are Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . From this event, it has become obvious that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised his beloved daughter Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to have patience and remain steadfast in the trial of poverty. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself was having patience on Faqah (hunger) for many days. We, therefore, should be patient and grateful to Allah Almighty in every state and should not make any complaint at all. If Allah Almighty wills, all the problems will start to get solved. In addition, another best way of attaining the treasure of patience and thankfulness is to remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool.

Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il

Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and support Dawat-e-Islami in order to spread the message of Islam. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il (Majlis for Distribution of Books / booklets). You can also distribute booklets yourself by buying books and Madani booklets and memory cards from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. You can also get the books and Madani booklets [published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah] distributed free of charge on the occasion of the wedding ceremony, Urs, Teeja, Chehlam, etc., for the Isaal-e-Sawab of your

deceased ones by setting up stalls by contacting ‘Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il’ of Dawat-e-Islami. May Allah Almighty bless us with the passion to not only take part in the great act of distributing booklets ourselves but also persuade others to do so!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Few Sunnahs and manners of sitting

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of sitting from the book ‘ Sunnatayn aur Adaab ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ Sit with your buttocks on the floor, with both of your knees up and having your arms wrapped around them whilst holding one hand in the other. Sitting like this is Sunnah (but it is better to wrap your knees with a shawl while sitting like this). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 378)

٭ Sitting cross-legged is also proved by Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم .

٭ Do not sit where there is sunshine and shade as well. The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When any of you is in shade and the shade then moves away, leaving him partially in the sunshine and partially in shade, then he should stand up from there.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 344, Hadees 4821)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of sitting will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ ٭ ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 15 November 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Few Sunnahs and manners of sitting

٭ Sit facing the Qiblah. (Rasaail ‘Attariyyah, part, 2, pp. 229)

٭ Sitting on the seats of pious people is against the etiquette. A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: One should not sit on the seat of his teacher and spiritual guide even in their absence. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 369, 424)

٭ Try not to let your back face towards pious saints while sitting or standing, and the legs must not be straightened out towards them at all.

٭ Whenever you come to any congregation or Majlis, do not come crossing over other people, sit where you get room.

٭ When sitting, take off your shoes, your feet will get comfort.

(Al-Jami-us-Sagheer, pp. 40, Hadees 554)

٭ When you get free from a Majlis, recite [the following] Du’a three times, sins will be forgiven and the Islamic brother who recites this Du’a in the Majlis of goodness and the Majlis of Zikr, goodness will be stamped for him. Du’a is as follows:

سُبْحَانَكَ اللّٰھُمَّ وَ بِحَمْدِكَ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اَنْتَ اَسْتَغْفِرُكَ وَ اَتُوْبُ اِلَیْكَ

Translation: You are Pure and O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! All praise is for You. There is no Almighty except You. I seek forgiveness from You and I repent to You.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 347, Hadees 4857)

٭ Standing up in the reverence of any practicing scholar, pious person, Sayyid Sahib or parents is an act of reward.

A great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: Upon the arrival of pious people, both these acts, i.e. standing in reverence and welcoming them, are permissible. It is also the Sunnah of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and even Sunnat-e-Qawli of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 370)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of drinking milk

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a of ‘ drinking milk ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اَللّٰہُمَّ بَارِكْ لَنَا فِیْہِ وَ زِدْنَا مِنْہ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Give blessing in this for us and bless us with it more. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 283, Hadees 3466)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

