Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Religiously-trained daughter of Shaykh Kirmaani 4

Does son ever beat his father? . 11

Virtuous deeds equal to mountain didn’t benefit 11

VCD Ijtima’ 14

Madani parable . 14

Advice of [female] villager . 15

Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat and upbringing of children .. 16

Booklet ‘Awlad kay Huqooq’ 17

Negative effect of wrong use of Internet and Social Media on children .. 18

Jami’a-tul-Madinah Online . 18

An admonitory parable . 20

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing . 23

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 25

2. All sins forgiven .. 25

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 26

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 26

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 26

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 27

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 27

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 27

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Upbringing of Offspring and Responsibilities of Parents

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When Thursday arrives, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends angels who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They write the names of those who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday).’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 250, Hadees 2174)

یا نَبی! تُجھ پہ لاکھوں دُرُود و سلام اِس پہ ہے ناز مُجھ کو ہُوں تیرا غُلام

اپنی رَحمت سے تُو شاہِ خَیرُ الاَنام مُجھ سے عاصِی کا بھی ناز بَردَار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Religiously-trained daughter of Shaykh Kirmaani

Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very pious and abstinent. When his daughter, who was not only very beautiful but also very pious and abstinent, reached marriageable age he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه received a marriage proposal for her from the king, but he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه requested the king to give him three days. He then visited different Masajid in order to look for a pious young man.

Finally he saw a young man who offered Salah in a proper manner. The Shaykh asked him, ‘Are you married?’ The young man gave a negative reply. The Shaykh then asked him, ‘Would you like to marry? The girl recites the Holy Quran, offers Salah regularly and keeps Siyam. She is beautiful and well- mannered.’ The young man responded, ‘Who will marry me [as I am a destitute person?]’ The Shaykh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘I will marry my daughter to you. Take these dirhams and get bread, curry and fragrance for one dirham each.’

In this manner, Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه married [performed the Nikah of] his righteous daughter to him. When the bride came to the house of the groom, she saw that there was a piece of bread on the flask of water. She asked, ‘Why is this bread here?’ The groom replied, ‘This is yesterday’s stale bread which I saved for my Iftar .’ Upon hearing this, she began to leave. Seeing this, the groom said, ‘I knew beforehand that Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani’s daughter would not be able to live with a poor man like me.’ The bride replied, ‘I am going back not because of your destitution, but because of your apparent weak faith in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I am surprised at why my father stated that you are pious and righteous and a man of good habits. Embarrassed, the groom responded, ‘I apologize for this mistake.’ But the bride said, ‘Your mistake is for you to rectify. I cannot stay in the house where the meal for one time is saved. Now, either I will stay here or the bread.’ The groom immediately gave the bread in charity. (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 103)

رہیں سب شاد گھر والے شہا تھوڑی سی روزی پر

عطا ہو دولتِ صبر و قناعت یا رسولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how good upbringing Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was a renowned saint of the time, gave to his daughter and how excellent the Tawakkul [absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] of his daughter was! She did not get angry with her husband for not having facilities and enormous wealth in the home, but rather she made a complaint about the stale bread that her husband saved for Iftari because according to her it was against Tawakkul [absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ].

This princess must have got this Madani thought by virtue of the Madani Tarbiyyat [upbringing] of her honourable father Sayyiduna Shaykh Kirmaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who himself was a pious and abstinent saint and had absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, he gave Madani upbringing to his daughter in the same manner and chose for her the person who worshipped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ a lot so that the blessings of piety and abstinence could also be transferred to their generations because if a person himself is righteous so by virtue of his virtuous deeds his generations also gain benefit.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said: Undoubtedly by virtue of a man’s good deeds Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reforms his children and their children and then their children and protects him in his generation and amongst his neighbours and all of them remain in purdah [concealed] and protection of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 5, pp. 422, part 16, Taht-al-Ayah 82)

Dear Islamic brothers! In our society, parents are extremely negligent in the matter of giving upbringing to their children perhaps because they were themselves not well brought up. Of course, how can the one, who himself is unaware of Shar’i rulings and needs good upbringing, give upbringing to others? Therefore when these liberal parents receive a proposal of marriage for their daughters, they prefer the boy who is rich, possesses different degrees of arts and sciences and belongs to a modern family. They do not bother about the matters that the boy does not offer even one time Salah, commits sins openly, earn Haraam livelihood, is notorious for his cheating, does not know even the necessary rulings of Islam, in short he does not follow the teachings of Islam. On the other hand, if someone suggests them to marry their daughter to a boy whose income is low, but 100% Halal, can fulfil the rights of his wife, who is pious, abstinent and religious, who is the embodiment of

knowledge and practice [upon the knowledge], modesty and Sunnahs, whose heart is filled with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who is the Imam of a Masjid, Muazzin, Qaari or associated with the Madani environment, so م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ they speak such sentences for him: If our daughter marries him, she will die of hunger, he will confine her to his home, he will keep her in purdah from head to toe, etc.

Remember! Good parents do not commit this careless act at all, but rather they always look for a pious person for the Nikah (marriage) of their sisters and daughters.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also commanded us to marry a pious person.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When a person whose piety and manners you like, sends you a proposal of Nikah [marriage], perform Nikah (of your daughter) to him. If you don’t do it, then big Fitnahs (turmoil) and chaos will break out on the earth.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-un-Nikah, pp. 344, vol. 2, Hadees 1086)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated, ‘When you receive a proposal for your daughter from a righteous and pious man bearing high morals and good habits, do not delay the marriage of your young daughter out of greed for wealth waiting merely for a rich and prosperous match. It should be noted that if people wait for the wealthy, both young men and women will remain unmarried leading to spread of fornication which will bring disgrace upon the family of the woman. As a result, the families will fight and kill each other which is becoming obvious nowadays.’

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, Kitab-un-Nikah, vol. 8, pp. 548)

Dear Islamic brothers! Children are one of the greatest blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Children are a blessing which bring about happiness in the home. Righteous children are a blessing which become a support for their parents in their old age. Good children bring about the salvation of their parents when parents die. Whenever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses parents with a child, they are over the moon, but with the arrival of this blessing their trial also begins. Now it is up

to parents whether or not they succeed in this trial by giving their children Islamic upbringing.

Remember! Children usually follow the habits and character of their parents. If parents follow Shari’ah strictly and are eager to gain knowledge, their generations also follow the path of righteousness and bring about salvation, forgiveness and good name for their parents, but if parents have bad habits, so the same bad habits can also be found in their children, therefore such children do not bring about salvation, but destruction.

Remember! It is the responsibility of both parents to give upbringing to their children, but the father considers himself free from this responsibility after attributing overall responsibility to the mother due to earning livelihood, whereas the wife considers her husband to be responsible for the upbringing of children by giving the reason of her household chores. As a result, their children get out of their control and become a trouble for them. Therefore, both parents should understand their responsibility and should not become heedless or lazy in making their children righteous and the members of good character in the society because children feel a deep and a long-term effect of whatever they learn in their childhood. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اَلْعِلْمُ في صِغَرِهِ كالنَّقْشِ عَلَى الحَجَر ’ Gaining knowledge in childhood is like a [strong] mark on a stone. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 1, pp. 333, Hadees 5015)

Let’s listen to four sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following Ayah:

قُوْۤا اَنْفُسَكُمْ وَ اَهْلِیْكُمْ نَارًا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Save yourselves and your families from the fire. (Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, Ayah 6)

The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How should we protect our family members from fire?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Order them to perform the

deeds Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes, and prevent them from the deeds Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ dislikes.’ (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansur, vol. 8, pp. 225)

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Teach your children three habits: (1) Love for the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) (2) love for Ahl-e-Bayt (his blessed family). (3) Education of the Holy Quran. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer lis-Suyuti, pp. 25, Hadees 311)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: It is the right of a child upon his father to give him a good name and teach good manners.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 400, Hadees 8658)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: No father has given his child a gift that is better than good manners.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 383, vol. 3, Hadees 1959)

Regarding this blessed Hadees a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Good manners mean to make a child pious and abstinent. What else can be a better gift for children than this! These things are helpful in this world and the Hereafter both. Parents should not only make their children rich before departing this life, but they should also make them pious that will also help them in their graves as the reward for good deeds of living children are given to their deceased parents in the graves. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 565)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The need of Islamic education and Madani Tarbiyyat [upbringing] we feel today perhaps has not been felt before because nowadays evil acts and the sinful instruments are in abundance everywhere and the tendency to provide children with only worldly education is rapidly increasing. On the other hand, Islamic education for children was given more importance in the past. Perhaps it was due to which not only parents but also their children were pious, abstinent and obedient, but now, unfortunately,

preference is being given to worldly education. Heavy fees are paid and all luxuries and facilities are provided to English medium schools so that children’s worldly future can become bright, they can get good jobs and have lots of bank balance. For achieving this purpose, parents even send their children abroad for studies. In this way, for getting worldly education a child becomes a devoted worldly man, a good businessman and a fashionable person, but not a righteous and practising Muslim.

Advising Muslims to give good upbringing to their children Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It is a common practice amongst Muslims that they do not take care of the manners of their children in their childhood. Poor people allow their children to play with vagrant boys and thus they destroy their precious time of getting education, in bad company and playing sports and games. These children after growing up either beg or do insulting jobs or spend their life in jails after becoming thieves, robbers and bullies. The rich make their children desirous from the very beginning. They teach them how to grow English hair style and spend money carelessly. They get them suited and booted every time, then take them to cinemas and the dance programs. When these children become a little mature they are not taught even a Kalimah (statement of faith); they are admitted into a school or a college. They are taught how to become fashionable and spend lots of money. Bad company destroys their health and religion both. Now if the boy leaves his college and gets a good job, he becomes very rude. Neither does he respect his mother, nor recognizes his father, nor does he have any idea of the rights of the wife, nor is he aware of the upbringing of children. The criteria of success they have in their mind is that people should consider them (highly qualified in) English. Is it a success to forget or destroy your own identity for the sake of other nation? If they do not get any suitable place, they face great problems because they learn only how to spend in the college, not to earn, nor to spend for others. They learn how to get work done by servants, but not by themselves. Now for spending college-like life they become noble bullies or by making fake notes, spend their life in jail or they become robbers and wicked people. The children who are not provided with good company in their childhood trouble their parents a lot when they grow up. We have seen the parents of great fashionable sons complaining, ‘Please Mufti Sahib, give

us an amulet so that our child obeys us and we can control him’, but dear friends, only amulets do not benefit, good deeds should also be performed. (Islami Zindagi, pp. 29, 30)

مِری آنیوالی نسلیں ترے عشق ہی میں مچلیں

انہیں نیک تو بنانا مدنی مدینے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a fact that man reaps whatever he sows. It does not happen that he sows something else and reaps something else. The same example applies to a child. Parents do not give Islamic upbringing to their children, yet they expect that ‘our children will also become pious, abstinent and obedient; they will become respectable and people of good character in the society.’ When they find the result contrary to what they expect it’s too late. Now if parents want to try to reform them, they cannot. Parents who are sick of their spoiled children if think about the causes of their children being spoilt, they will find their own mistakes. For instance, if a child does not work or becomes lazy in work, takes a day off from his school or coaching centre, or reaches there late, does not study properly, does not agree if asked to go to a particular party or to wear a particular dress, similarly if he attends to other worldly matters with ifs and buts or becomes obstinate, parents take notice of it, scold him and advise him for hours, even sometimes they punish him.

On the other hand, if a child misses his Salah or does not offer it with Jama’at, takes a day off from Madrasah or Jami’ah or reaches there late, keeps in touch with non-Mahrams through the mobile phone, WhatsApp, etc., watches films and dramas, listens to songs and music, adopts new fashions, does not care for Halal and Haraam, drinks wine, plays cards, tells lies, does backbiting, adopts impermissible fashion, gets his beard shaved or gets it trimmed to less than a fist, sits in the company of people of corrupt belief, spends money in useless activities and becomes involved in many other different types of evils,

parents do not even frown let alone asking them about these matters. Let’s obtain the Madani pearls of admonition and listen to an admonitory parable about ‘What problems do parents face due to giving no Madani upbringing to their children?’

Does son ever beat his father?

A person came to the Islamic scholar of Samarqand, Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said: My son has beaten me. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه surprisingly asked: Does a son ever beat his father? That person replied: Yes! It has really happened. Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked the man: Have you given him Islamic education and taught manners? He gave a reply in negative. Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then asked: Have you taught him the Holy Quran? He again gave a reply in negative. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him: Then what does he do? That man replied: He works in farming. Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Do you know why he has beaten you. He said, ‘No.’ Sayyiduna Abu Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated by taunting him for reformation: I think in the morning when he was going towards the fields sitting on his donkey, an ox would be in front of him and a dog behind. He does not know how to recite the Holy Quran, that’s why he would be singing something. In the meantime, you would have come in front of him; he would have considered you as an ox, so he might have hit something on your head. Be thankful that your head has not broken. (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 68)

Virtuous deeds equal to mountain didn’t benefit

On the Day of Judgement, the wife and children of a man will make a complaint in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They will say, ‘O our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make this person compensate for our unfulfilled right. He never taught us about religion, and he provided us with Haraam sustenance and we were unaware.’ The person would be beaten so severely for earning Haraam sustenance that his flesh would come off his bones.

Then he would be brought to the Balance [i.e. Meezan] where angels would bring his good deeds equivalent to mountains. Then, one of his family members would come and say, ‘I am short of good deeds’ and take some of

them. Then another person from his family will say, ‘You made me eat [sustenance] from usury [i.e. interest]’, and he will also take some of his good deeds. In this way, his family members will take all of his good deeds. Then he would say turning his face towards his wife and children in despair, ‘Alas! Now I have the burden of those sins and acts of cruelty which I committed for you.’ The angels will announce, ‘He is (the unfortunate) person whose family has taken all of his good deeds and he entered Hell because of them.’

(Qurra-tul-‘Uyoon, pp. 401)

تُوْ بُوْ ا اِ لَی اللہ اَسْتَغْفِرُ اللہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The parents who do not give upbringing to their children feel deeply ashamed and suffer terrible insult. Therefore being good parents teach your children how to love the Holy Quran and act upon its commandments.

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated: The most important thing is to teach children the Holy Quran and the essential teachings of Islam such as the rulings on Sawm (صَوۡم), Salah, purity, sale and purchase and employment etc., which we need in everyday life. Likewise, knowledge on the rulings of everyday-life-matters should also be taught so that they may avoid committing Shari’ah-contradicting acts due to ignorance. If parents observe that their child is intelligent and interested in gaining knowledge, then serving religion is the most preferred option. If they cannot afford to do so, they should provide him with the knowledge of correct beliefs and essential rulings. Afterwards, they can make him do any permissible work. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 2, pp. 256)

Similarly, after parents have taught beliefs and essential rulings to their daughters, they should make them learn from any woman those things which

women usually need such as sewing, embroidery etc. They should try to teach their daughters housekeeping skills such as cooking and other household chores because a skilful woman can live her life much better than an unskilful woman. (Ibid, pp. 257; Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 5, pp. 279)

‘Allamah Qurtubi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has narrated: It is Fard for us to educate our children and family members about religion [Islam] and to teach virtuous things and such manners and skills to them without which, it is difficult to survive. (Tafseer Qurtubi, vol. 9, pp. 148)

In today’s era which is full of conflicts, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ such parents also exist who follow Shar’iah strictly despite being taunted by the society. They reform their children and give them Islamic upbringing and by doing so they are trying to make their Hereafter better. From amongst the children of these people, who have Madani mind-set, some become Haafiz, some Qaari and some become the ones who present call towards righteousness, some children also become Islamic scholars and some become Muftis and guide the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from Shar’i point of view. The children of the parents who are serving Islam in this manner are fully aware of the fact that the benefits of making doctors and engineers are merely confined to this world, whereas righteous children are beneficial and useful for their parents even after their [parents’] death.

Sayyiduna Buraydah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whosoever recites the Quran and learns it and acts upon it, his parents will be made to wear a crown of Noor [light] on the Day of Judgment whose shinning will be like the sun and his parents will be made to wear two garments, this world cannot pay the price for them . Thereupon, they will ask, ‘Why have we been made to wear these dresses?’ It will be said to them, ‘Because your children have memorized the Quran.’

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 278, Raqm 2132)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees that undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will elevate the rank of a righteous person in Paradise. He will say: O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How have I got this rank? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say: Your son has made Du’a for your forgiveness. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 440, Hadees 2354)

Dear Islamic brothers! Parents can get these virtues only when they become the embodiment of knowledge, practice [upon the knowledge] and Sunnah, have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love for Islamic knowledge. If we also want to have these attributes, we should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Our upcoming generations will also follow the same path, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

VCD Ijtima’

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah Dawat-e-Islami is giving the Madani mind-set of ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ along with the mind-set of giving upbringing to children according to the Islamic teachings. Therefore parents should associate themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and make intention to participate in 12 Madani activities actively. VCD Ijtima’ is one of the weekly 12 Madani activities. Islamic brothers gain Islamic knowledge by listening or watching the Sunnah-inspiring Bayan [speech] collectively. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ gaining Islamic knowledge collectively has lots of blessings.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When you pass by the flower- beds of Jannah, pick something from them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم humbly said: What are the flower-beds of Jannah? The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Halqahs [gatherings] of Zikr [remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ]. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 304, Raqm 3521)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of attending VCD Ijtima’, a Madani transformation has occurred in the lives of many devotees of Rasool. For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith refreshing Madani parable:

Madani parable

An Islamic brother from Lahore (Pakistan) stated that a person running a billiards club in their area used to sell wine and show obscene movies. When he watched the programs of Madani Channel in Ramadan 1429 AH he got so

impressed that he not only put an end to the business of selling wine etc. but also closed down the billiard club within two days.

عطائے حبیبِ خدا مَدَنی ماحول ہے فیضانِ غوث و رضا مَدَنی ماحول

سلامت رہے یا خدا مَدَنی ماحول بچے نظرِ بد سے سدا مَدَنی ماحول

سنور جائیگی آخِرت اِن شَاءَ الله تم اپنا ئے رکھو سدا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Regarding children’s upbringing, the character of pious saints and the character of previous Muslims are a role model for us because these personages were fully aware of the manners of giving upbringing to children and would value the blessing of children in a real way. Of course, they were themselves brought up by pious parents. These people were greedy of good deeds and also would persuade their children to follow the virtuous path. Therefore their children used to be obedient and the source of pleasure and joy for them. They would bring their parents great fame in the society. Let’s listen to 2 faith-refreshing parables for persuasion and attain Madani pearls.

Advice of [female] villager

Imam Asma’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I saw a [female] villager who was advising her son: O son! The ability to practise is from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and I advise you to avoid tale-telling because it develops enmity between two tribes and makes friends go their separate ways. Avoid persevering in efforts to discover the secrets of others because it may make you faulty. Do not show off your worship. Do not become stingy in spending money. Learn lessons from the consequences of others. Act upon the deeds of people you like and avoid the deed from amongst the deeds you dislike because a person is blind to his own faults. The woman then fell silent. I then said: O [female] villager! For the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Give more pieces of advice. She asked: O the city

dweller! Did you like the advice of a villager? I asked: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I liked. Then she said: Son! Refrain from cheating because cheating is the worst of whatever things you do to people. Adopt generosity, courtesy, modesty and gain knowledge now I hand you over to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Peace be upon you; may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you! Remember! In Islam, committing [the sin of] backbiting is more grievous sin than committing [the sin of] fornication 30 times. (Aansu’on ka Derya, pp. 249)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat and upbringing of children

The wife of Haji Abu Junayd Zam Zam Raza Attari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه [the preacher of Dawat-e-Islami and member of central Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami] has stated: The deceased used to love his children very much. When his daughters would come, he despite being busy would come home to meet them. When he would become a little strict while rectifying someone’s mistake at home, he would explain the reason as well that he was making him/her understand for their benefits and for the salvation in the Hereafter. While eating meals he would get children to make Du’a and would eat meals as per Sunnah. He would take his sons to Masjid for Salah as far as possible. When he would go to travel with Madani Qafilahs, he would urge his family members to offer Salah and would continue to follow up through SMS whether or not they offered Salah. Even when he was ill he said to his elder son: As I recover, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we both will travel with a Madani Qafilah. Refusing to buy a mobile phone for his son he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made up his son’s mind by saying that Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, has forbidden to buy a mobile phone for children, therefore I will not buy a mobile phone for you. (Mahboob-e-‘Attar ki 122 Hikayaat, pp. 13)

مِری آنیوالی نسلیں ترے عشق ہی میں مچلیں

انہیں نیک تو بنانا مدنی مدینے والے

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned parable contains admonitory Madani pearls for both—parents and children. It is a fact that good parents do not get heedless of their children’s upbringing, but rather they continue to give them pieces of advice and try to reform them. If he [a father] offers Salah, travels with Madani Qafilahs, acts upon Madani In’amaat and Sunnah, so he will keep persuading his children to perform Madani activities and will also keep following them up. Anyway, now parents have to take this decision whether they want to make their children a continuous source of reward [Sadaqah Jariyah] for them by performing the duty of giving them good upbringing or they want to make them the destruction for their Hereafter after giving them full freedom.

نیک اولاد کی، داد فریاد کی خاطر آؤ چلیں، قافِلے میں چلو

قلب بھی شاد ہو، گھر بھی آباد ہو پاؤ گے راحتیں، قافِلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Booklet ‘Awlad kay Huqooq’

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely beneficial to study the booklet named ‘Awlad kay Huqooq’ [Rights of Children] published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah from beginning to end for giving good upbringing to your children and for getting information about their rights. This booklet contains rights from the birth of a child to different aspects of his life in the light of blessed Ahadees. Buy this booklet today from the stalls of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself. Further, give it to others as a gift after buying them in bulk. This booklet can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Negative effect of wrong use of Internet and Social Media on children

Dear Islamic brothers! Every wise person is fully aware of the moral and social disadvantages of Internet and social media. There was a time when the harmful effects and terrible results of TV and cinemas were extremely worrying for the society and TV was declared to be the most harmful for health, but nowadays mobile phones and internet are destroying the health and the moral values. Parents should give their children Madani upbringing along with keeping an eye on their movements. They should especially protect the children who are very young from the destruction of the mobile phone and internet, otherwise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, these young children’s character may get spoiled at this age. If it happens then surely children and parents both will be insulted and disgraced everywhere. Get associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to make your children a good and pious Muslims in the society. Also keep your children associated with this Madani environment.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Considerable attention is paid to Islamic and moral upbringing as per Quran and Sunnah in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Therefore get your Madani children (boys and girls) enrolled in Madrasa-tul-Madinah or Dar-ul-Madinah and adults in Jami’a-tul-Madinah and make them practising Haafiz of Quran and Islamic scholars.

Jami’a-tul-Madinah Online

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, is busy serving Islam in more than 103 departments. One of the departments is ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah Online’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Four-year Dars-e-Nizami Course is being carried out under the supervision of Jami’a-tul-Madinah Online. The duration of the class is one hour daily. Approximately 22 courses are being conducted under the supervision of Department Online Courses. Here are the names of a few courses and their brief introduction:

There are two types of courses for Tafseer Quran-e-Kareem — in one course the commentary of the entire Quran ‘ Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan ’ is

completely taught. The name of this course is also ‘Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan’. Its duration is approximately 26 months.

§ The name of the second course is Faizan-e-Tafseer in which the commentary of the entire Quran is briefly taught. Its duration is approximately 92 days.

§ Faizan-e-Bahar-e-Shari’at Course: In this course, Bahar-e-Shari’at [the book which makes a person Islamic scholar] is taught almost completely in 12 months.

§ Fiqh and ‘Aqaaid [jurisprudence and beliefs] Course: The course duration is also 12 months in which different books of beliefs and jurisprudence are taught and Fard ‘Uloom [compulsory branches of knowledge] are imparted.

§ Salah Course and Taharat Course: In these both courses, the rulings on Salah and Taharat are taught in detail. The duration of both these courses is 63 days.

§ Faizan-e-Hajj and Faizan-e-‘Umrah Course: Many excellent courses are offered to pilgrims of Haramayn Tayyibayn in which detailed rulings on Hajj and ‘Umrah and the method of [performing them] are taught. The duration of these courses is approximately one month and the duration of the class is 30 minutes daily.

§ New Muslim Course: There is an outstanding course for new Muslims. The duration of the course is 72 days.

§ Sunnat Nikah Course: It is an excellent course for married and unmarried people containing rulings on Nikah, rights of husband and wife, how the home becomes peaceful and many other aspects. The duration of this course is 30 days.

§ In addition to the above-mentioned courses, these courses are also offered: Faizan-e-Fard ‘Uloom Course, Tajheez-o-Takfeen Course, Faizan-e- Ramadan Course, Faizan-e-Zakat Course, Faizan-e-Tasawwuf Course, Arabic Grammar Course, Faizan-e-Shumaail-e-Mustafa Course, Rulings on Qurbani Course, etc.

The duration of the class of most of the courses is 30 minutes and for some courses it is 1 hour. The devotees of Rasool who want to get Islamic knowledge have a golden opportunity to gain Islamic knowledge through these courses. Go to the option of department from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net, fill up its admission form from Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online and get the treasure of Islamic knowledge. Further information can be obtained from the following numbers as well. 0333-5252625 - 0321-2799484

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

An admonitory parable

On page 546 of ‘ Nayki ki Dawat ’ [Call to Righteousness] Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: A summary of the statement of an Islamic brother is as follows: A young man from Hyderabad (Zam Zam Nagar, Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh, Pakistan) associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami probably in 1988. Besides offering Salah regularly, he grew a beard and started wearing an ‘Imamah. He also started attending Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults). He belonged to a modern and rich family which did not welcome the Madani revolution that took place in his life. Therefore, he was opposed, oppressed and obstructed in many ways. He used to be forced into leaving the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Helpless, he sometimes would plead with his family, ‘Do not force me into leaving the Madani environment, or else, you will have to regret.’ But no one listened to him. He was opposed for a continuous period of three years.

At last, he surrendered to the demand of his family, shaving his beard and distancing himself from the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. As his elder brother was a doctor, he was also admitted to a medical college in Sardarabad in order to become a doctor. During his stay at the hostel, he started smoking cannabis due to the company of bad friends. As a result, he fell seriously ill and was taken back to Hyderabad by his family. His father spent hundreds of thousands of rupees on his medical treatment, but he did

not recover and started even taking heroin. Due to excessive addiction, he became a skeleton, converting the whiteness of his teeth into a dark film of drugs. He behaves like a mad person now.

By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his father has now associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. He deeply regrets, saying, ‘If I had realized the importance of Dawat-e-Islami that time and had not prevented my son from its Madani environment, I would not perhaps have witnessed these sad days, but there is no crying over spilt milk.’

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to give Madani upbringing to our children as per Islamic rules!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

یا ربّ بچا لے تُو مجھے نارِ جحیم سے

اولاد پہ بھی بلکہ جہنم حرام ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have been privileged to listen to the speech about ‘Upbringing of Children and Responsibilities of Parents’.

§ Parents’ good upbringing make children good and bad upbringing makes them bad.

§ Pious children are a source of comfort in the world and a source of salvation in the Hereafter.

§ Good parents are never heedless of their children’s upbringing.

§ Good parents do not curse their children.

§ Internet and social media spoil the health and manners of children.

§ Never be negligent and lazy in the matters of giving Madani upbringing to your children.

§ A pious child is a blessing that is a support for parents in their old age. A good child becomes a source of salvation for parents after their death.

§ The kind of need for the Madani Tarbiyyat [upbringing] of children we feel today has perhaps never been felt before.

§ The children who do not have good company during their upbringing bring about worry and trouble for their parents at times when they grow up.

§ The parents who do not give correct upbringing to their children feel ashamed and fall into disgrace. Therefore being good parents teach your children how to love the Holy Quran and act upon its commandments.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us and our generations the devotees of Rasool and righteous!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing

Dear Islamic brothers! Sneezing is also an important action and there are also Sunnahs and manners of sneezing. Sadly! Majority of Muslims are unaware of this because of being distracted from the Madani environment. Whenever they feel urge to sneeze, they sneeze loudly. Whenever they have runny nose, they blow it. This shouldn’t be so. We should try and learn the Sunnahs and manners of sneezing too.

When sneezing, put your head down, cover your face and sneeze in a low voice. Sneezing with a loud voice is foolishness. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

Sayyiduna ‘Ubadah Bin Saamit, Shaddad Bin Aws, and Sayyiduna Waasilah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘When someone feels urge to belch or sneeze, they should not raise their voice, because it is liked by Satan that the voice [of sneezing or belching] is raised.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 8, pp. 32, Hadees 9355)

One should say (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ) after sneezing. (It is stated on page 3 of Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Muakkadah [emphasized] Sunnah to praise [Hamd of] Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon sneezing). It is better to say (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ) or (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ) . It is Wajib for the listener to say (یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ) (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you) immediately in an audible voice so that the one who sneezed could hear.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 476)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When someone sneezes and says (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ), the angels say (رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ), and if someone says (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ) then the innocent angels say (یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ) i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you . (Tabarani Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 305, Hadees 3371)

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing

Dear Islamic brothers! Sneezing is also an important action and there are also Sunnahs and manners of sneezing. Sadly! Majority of Muslims are unaware of this because of being distracted from the Madani environment. Whenever they feel urge to sneeze, they sneeze loudly. Whenever they have runny nose, they blow it. This shouldn’t be so. We should try and learn the Sunnahs and manners of sneezing too.

When sneezing, put your head down, cover your face and sneeze in a low voice. Sneezing with a loud voice is foolishness. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

Sayyiduna ‘Ubadah Bin Saamit, Shaddad Bin Aws, and Sayyiduna Waasilah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘When someone feels urge to belch or sneeze, they should not raise their voice, because it is liked by Satan that the voice [of sneezing or belching] is raised.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 8, pp. 32, Hadees 9355)

One should say (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ) after sneezing. (It is stated on page 3 of Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Muakkadah [emphasized] Sunnah to praise [Hamd of] Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon sneezing). It is better to say (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ) or (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ) . It is Wajib for the listener to say (یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ) (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you) immediately in an audible voice so that the one who sneezed could hear.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 476)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When someone sneezes and says (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ), the angels say (رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ), and if someone says (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ) then the innocent angels say (یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ) i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you . (Tabarani Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 305, Hadees 3371)

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہ ُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

