Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Harmful Effects of Greed & Blessings of Contentment

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ مَا مِن عَبْدَيْنِ مُتَحَابَّيْنِ فِي اللهِ يَسْتَقْبِلُ اَحَدُهُمَا صاحِبَه فَيُصَافِحُه ’ i.e. when two people having affection with each other for the pleasure of Allah Almighty meet one another, shake hands ‘ ويُصَلِّيَان عَلَى النَّبيِّ صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلہٖ وَسَلَّمَ اِلَّا لَمْ يَفْتَرِقَا حَتّٰى تُغْفَرَ ذُنُوْبُهُما مَا تَقَدَّمَ مِنْهُمَا وَمَا تَأَخَّر ’ and recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), then their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate from each other.’ (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 95, Hadees 2951)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and attain reward, let’s first make good intentions. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

-1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

1. -2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

-3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

-4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

-5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

-7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

-8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Contentment is one of the excellent traits among the most exalted traits of a human being. A content person succeeds in abandoning her desires, whereas a greedy person always keeps wandering here and there while becoming the slave of her Nafs. A content person is privileged to express gratitude to Allah Almighty, whereas a greedy person starts mourning and complaining if any of her desire does not get fulfilled. Contentment becomes a sign of a person’s high spirits, intellectuality, nobility, piety and patience, whereas following desires makes a person fall prey to the traps of greed and miserliness and becomes a means of keeping a person away from spending in the path of Allah Almighty. In today’s bayan, we will hear about the harmful effects of greed and blessings of contentment. Let’s first listen to a parable regarding the destruction of greed.

Destruction of greed

An interesting and thought provoking parable has been mentioned on page 396 of the second volume of the book ‘ Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: There lived a strange type of snake in a house that used to lay a golden egg every day. The owner of the house was very happy to receive this free wealth. He had instructed the household not to reveal this to anyone. This continued for several months. One day, the snake came out of its hole and bit their nanny goat. The poison of the snake was so fatal that it caused the immediate death of the goat. The household were now afraid of what had happened but the owner comforted them, saying, ‘The profit we are reaping by the means of the snake is much greater than the price of the goat. So there is no need to worry.’ After some time, the snake bit their donkey that also died on the spot. The owner also got worried this time but he managed to control himself due to the greed of wealth. He said, ‘I am seeing that the snake is constantly

causing us loss. However, I will observe patience as long its loss is limited to animals, but not after that.’

Two years had passed but the snake did not bite anyone. The household also forgot about the loss of their animals. Then one day, the snake bit their servant. The poor servant loudly pleaded his master for help but his body had decayed due to the poison before his master could reach him. Worried, the owner said, ‘This snake has deadly poison. Everyone it bit has died immediately. I fear it may bite any of my family members now.’ Many days passed in the same condition, thinking what to do about the snake. Blinded by the greed of wealth, he once again satisfied his family members by saying that ‘though we are suffering loss due to the snake, but yet we are also gaining golden eggs. Therefore, we shall not worry too much.’ After some days, the snake bit his son. An antidote was instantly made available but it was of no use and his son lost his life. Extremely furious at the snake and grief-stricken by the death of their young son, the husband and wife said, ‘Now there is no goodness in this snake. It is better that this poisonous snake be killed without any further delay.’

The snake heard what they said so it disappeared for a few days. Hence, they were also deprived of the golden eggs. After a long period of time, the greedy people felt anxious due to not gaining the golden eggs anymore. Therefore, the greedy husband and wife came to the hole of the snake and smoked it out. It was as if they had given it a message of reconciliation. Astonishingly, the snake returned and started producing golden eggs once again. Blinded by the greed of wealth, they even forgot the death of their servant and son. One day, the snake bit his wife while she was asleep. She shouted, so her husband immediately attempted to treat the snakebite with an antidote but she lost her life within a short while, writhing in pain. The greedy person was now left alone. So he told his brothers and friends the whole story about the snake. All of them suggested, ‘You have made a very big mistake. You still have a chance. Take a lesson from it and kill the snake as soon as possible.’ Therefore, reaching home, he waited in ambush to kill the snake. All of a sudden, he saw a precious pearl near the hole of the snake. Seeing it, the greedy person became happy. Greed for wealth made him forget everything. He said, ‘Time changes ones nature. Certainly the nature of the snake must

also have changed, as it has started producing pearls instead of golden eggs, similarly, it would have also lost its poison. Therefore, I am not in danger of being bitten by it.’ Thinking so, he gave up the idea of killing the snake. The greedy person was extremely happy to get a precious pearl every day, forgetting the previous deaths caused by the snake.

One day, putting all his gold and pearls into a pot, he buried it and went to sleep with his head placed where the pot was buried. The very same night, the snake bit him as well. When his screams rang out, his neighbours, relatives and friends rushed to his house. Seeing his condition, all of them said, ‘You hesitated to kill the snake and put your own life at stake falling prey to greed.’ Ashamed, the greedy person could say nothing. He then dug out the pot full of gold and handed it over to them. Seeing it, all of them said, ‘Today, this wealth cannot benefit you at all because it will now go to others.’ Then after a short while, that greedy person also died. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 439; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you hear that greed of wealth ruined a happy family. Certainly, a greedy person lacks vision. She only sees the temporary benefit of a thing and is unable to make correct decisions, suffering losses. The abovementioned parable shows that the head of household had many opportunities to avoid the risk. At first, the snake bit his goat and donkey. It was sufficient to ring the alarm bell. He should have become alert, may have avoided the greed for wealth and would have made proper arrangements in order to remain safe from such tragic incidents in future. But regretfully! He ignored the incident instead of drawing some lesson from it because he was intoxicated by the greed of golden eggs. Therefore, taking full advantage of the heedlessness of this person, the snake killed his son and wife as well. Despite being advised by his brothers and friends, he did not kill the snake due to greed. As a result, he himself also met his doom.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Greed’ has been referred to in these words in Ayah 128 of Surah An-Nisa in part 5 of the Glorious Quran:

وَ اُحْضِرَتِ الْاَنْفُسُ الشُّحَّؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And the heart is trapped in greed.

Regarding the above Ayah, it is stated in Tafseer e Khaazin that greed is an essential part of the heart because this is how it has been created. (Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 437)

Greed can be for anything

Dear Islamic sisters! It is commonly assumed that greed is only related to wealth. In fact, this is not the case. ‘Greed’ actually means more desire for anything, whether it is wealth or something else. Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: ‘One may have the passion of greed in any blessing including food, clothing, house, items, wealth, honour and fame.’ (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 111)

Therefore, one having a desire for more wealth will be called ‘greedy for wealth’ while one having desire for more food will be called ‘greedy for food’. Similarly, one desiring to increase her virtuous deeds will be called ‘greedy for virtuous deeds’, whereas one increasing the burden of sins will be called ‘greedy for sins’.

What is greed?

Hakeem-ul-Ummah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: A wish to live a long life is desire and not being content with anything as well as always longing for more is [called] greed. If both these things are related to the world, then they are bad (and) if they relate to the Hereafter, then they are good. Therefore, yearning for living a long life in order to perform more worship of Allah Almighty is obviously good. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 86)

So we came to know that greed being good or bad depends on what it is craved for. If it relates to obedience and worshipping, then such greed is not a bad at all. Moreover, we have also come to know that greed is not specific to wealth alone, but its curse may exist in various other matters too. A greedy person is extremely pitiful as she is always busy in fulfilling her greed and finally, this fatal disease leads her to slavery and extreme disgrace.

Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated greed is that a person at times keeps longing for this thing and at times for that thing, to the extent that he wants to acquire everything. For fulfilling this purpose, he meets many different people who use him for their own vested interests because they fulfil his needs and requirements. They want him to revere them, which results in his ultimate disgrace. Besides this, it is love for the world that forces him to greet them and visit them when they fall ill, but all these acts are not for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 124)

Let’s listen to three narrations based on the adversity of greed and try to get some Madani pearls of advice:

3 Blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in relation to greed

-1 Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: People say or any of you say that a greedy person is more deceitful than a cruel person but in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, no cruelty is greater than greed, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ swears by His Reverence, Glory and Majesty that no greedy and stingy person will enter Paradise. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 124)

-2 Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Continue refraining from greed because it is greed that destroyed the previous nations, provoked them to tell lies and they began lying, encouraged them towards cruelty so they started inflicting cruelty and persuaded them to break off ties (with relatives) so they started breaking off ties. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Hadees 7402)

-3 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Two hungry wolves, when set free in [a flock of] nanny-goats, do not cause as much harm as the greed

of wealth and love for status cause to one’s Deen .’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is a great comparison. The Deen of a believer is compared to a nanny-goat and the two hungry wolves are his greed for wealth and respect; but these two wolves create more destruction to his Deen than the two apparent hungry wolves that cause destruction to the nanny-goats. While engrossed in the greed of wealth, a person does not care about Halal and Haraam (permissible and impermissible). He spends his precious moments in acquiring wealth only, and then makes such efforts to gain respect which are completely contrary to Islam. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 19)

Dear Islamic sisters! In the light of blessed Ahadees and their commentaries, it becomes clear that greed is a danger to one’s Deen and Iman in many ways and it is such destructive spiritual disease that it makes one commit major sins such as lying, inflicting cruelty and breaking family ties etc., by being indulged in it.

Therefore, safety lies in the fact that instead of increasing your bank balance and hoarding up wealth, remain content upon the blessings bestowed upon you by Allah Almighty and safeguard yourself from the filth of greed while remaining pleased over His عَزَّوَجَلَّ pleasure. Those fortunate people who refrain from greed are given the glad tidings of success. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in Parah 28, Surah Hashr, Ayah No. 9:

وَ مَنْ یُّوْقَ شُحَّ نَفْسِهٖ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُوْنَۚ(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whoever is saved from the greed of his own-self, so it is only they who are successful. (Part 28, Surah Al-Hashr, Ayah 9)

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: Greed is an extremely evil trait and a bad habit. Whatever sustenance, blessing, wealth and honour and status one has been blessed by Allah

Almighty, he should be pleased over it while observing contentment. Keeping an eye on others’ wealth and blessings and staying worried in order to acquire the same while implementing every type of right and wrong strategy day and night is called the passion for greed. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 110)

The blessed Hadees states: If a man had two valleys of wealth, he would still wish for a third one. For nothing can fill the belly of the son of Aadam except the earth of the grave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 522, Hadees 1050)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you observed how beautifully Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has comprehensively guided us in relation to greed that the greed of a human never comes to an end even if a person is blessed with the valleys of gold, she would still wish for more. She never feels satisfied because this epidemic has seeped into her veins like blood. Therefore, as the time passes, her greed grows instead of getting less. She then reaches death which brings her life to an end and shatters all her dreams in an instance.

Undoubtedly, whoever possesses the blessing of contentment lives a peaceful life. On the contrary, the one whose heart and mind is dominated by the curse of greed; she often faces the consequence of her greed in this life.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! One will be granted as much sustenance as is destined for her by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, it is useless to have greed for more. As a villager said to his brother reproaching him for his greed, ‘O my brother! You are in search of one thing, whereas one thing is itself in search of you. The thing that is in search of you (i.e. death), you can’t escape it and what you are in search of (i.e. sustenance), you already have it. You might have a mindset that the one who is greedy for the world is granted everything, whereas the one who is disinterested (in the world), remains deprived. (Whereas, this is a very big misunderstanding of yours).

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 296)

Dear Islamic sisters! Indeed, what villager said is a true fact that greed does not increase the sustenance of a person, nor does disinterest from the world

decreases it. Therefore, one should adopt contentment while refraining from greed. There are great benefits in adopting contentment, whereas greed causes extreme loss of this world and the Hereafter.

Cause of destruction of Bal’am Bin Ba’oora

It is stated on page 367 of the 539 page book Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: (Bal’am Bin Ba’oora) was a very big scholar of Bani Israel. He was Mustajaab-ud-Da’waat (i.e. his Du’as used to be answered). People gave him a lot of wealth demanding him to supplicate against (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . The wicked man fell prey to greed and willing to supplicate against Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام . The words he wanted to utter for (Sayyiduna) Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام would be uttered for himself. Therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ destroyed him.

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you seen that Bal’am Bin Ba’oora, who was an illustrious scholar and a devout person of his time, he also had the knowledge of Ism-e-A’zam, he could see ‘Arsh-e-A’zam [the Divine Throne] whilst sitting at his place due to his spirituality, he was Mustajaab-ud-Da’waat i.e. his supplications were answered, and he also had a large number of students. It is famous that the number of inkpots of his students of ‘Ilm e Deen were twelve thousand in his institution. Alas! Despite having such rank in the court of Allah Almighty, the greed of wealth destroyed a devout worshipper and ascetic like Bal’am Bin Ba’oora. Due to the greed, the accursed Bal’am agreed to supplicate against the beloved Nabi of Allah, Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام while being ungrateful to the blessings of Allah Almighty. As a result, he was thrown out of the court of Allah Almighty. All his acts of worship went in vain. His sainthood was taken away and facing disgrace and humiliation became his destiny. This parable is a great admonitory account for those who receive respect and fame special status and rank due to a worldly or religious designation among people but misuse their authority. Furthermore, not only do they perform dishonesty while crossing the boundaries and laws of Shari’ah, but also become a means of displeasing Allah Almighty and hurting the feelings of people. Such people should not remain fearless from the hidden plan of Allah Almighty.

“Madani Muzakarah”, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to remove the greed of worldly wealth and love for fame and status from your heart and to develop the mindset to prepare for the Hereafter, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, in order to spread the invitation towards righteousness, actively take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities is also to participate in the weekly “Madani Muzakarah”. Through this, one reaps numerous benefits of this world and the Hereafter. For example:

… ٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one develops the mindset of refraining from sins.

… ٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains the knowledge of Deen.

… ٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, along with attaining religious knowledge, one also undergoes character building.

… ٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Muzakarah, one develops the yearning for the wellbeing of Muslim Ummah.

… ٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains the company of the devotees of Rasool.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable and make the intention of participating in the Madani Muzakarah .

Woke up to fact (Madani parable)

There was an Islamic sister in Punjab (Pakistan) who, before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment, would watch films and dramas on TV. Whenever she wanted to go to market, she would go without any purdah; she would not even offer Salah. In this way, she was heedlessly spending her days committing sins. Once, someone gave her cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. When she listened to them, she woke up to the fact. By virtue of the blessing of the speeches she was blessed with Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She also started offering Salah regularly and repented all of her sins especially non-

observance of purdah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Burqa’ became the part of her dress. The tongue she would use to hum songs now اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is used to recite the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 32)

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Instead of worrying about this world only, we should worry about this world as much as we are going to stay in here and about our grave and Hereafter as much as we are going to stay there. Our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to worry about this world very less and more about the Hereafter. Moreover, they would also persuade others to do the same.

Provisions for a long journey

Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood by the Ka’bah and proclaimed: ‘O people, I am Jundub Ghifari. Come here to your well-wisher affectionate brother.’ When everyone gathered around him, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked them: ‘Tell me if anyone of you intends to travel, then would you not take the provisions of journey with you which you will need and will assist you to reach your destination?’ Everyone replied, ‘yes, why not.’ Then (while giving them the mindset of refraining from worldly greed and persuading them to develop the greed for the Hereafter), he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘undoubtedly, journey of the Hereafter is far longer than the journey you intend to travel here. Therefore, take such provisions with you (for that journey) that will benefit you.’ People asked him, ‘what are those provisions?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘perform Hajj for great purposes, observe Sawm in intense heat while keeping in view the long Day of Judgement, offer Nawafil in the darkness of the night in order to remain protected from the horror of the grave, say good and refrain from evil utterance keeping in view the standing in that long day, give Sadaqah from your wealth with the hope of remaining safe from the difficulties of the Judgement day and join two

gatherings in this world, first one to seek Halal [sustenance] and the second one to seek the Hereafter. Other than these two, do not intend for a third gathering because it will harm you instead of benefiting you. Similarly, divide your wealth into two parts. Spend one part on your household through halal means and spend the other one for your Hereafter (i.e. give Sadaqah). Besides them do not divide it into any third part as it will harm you instead of benefiting you.’ Then he proclaimed in a loud voice: ‘O people! [Refrain from] Greed [as it] holds destruction for you. You can never fulfil greed.’

(Sift-us-Safwah, vol. 1, pp. 301)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Develop greed for virtuous deeds

Dear Islamic sisters! Indeed, we all have to face the long journey of the Hereafter. In order to reach the destination successfully, we need abundant of virtuous deeds as our provisions for the journey. On the Day of Judgement, if the pan of our scale of virtuous deeds is lighter by even one virtue, then our mother, father, brothers, sisters, wife, children, no one will be of any use to us. Therefore, if one has to be greedy, then she should be greedy for the virtuous deeds as Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also persuaded to have the love for the Hereafter and become greedy for the virtuous deeds from time to time. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this relation.

-1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who loves this world harms his Hereafter, and the one who loves his Hereafter harms his world. Therefore, give priority to the everlasting one [Hereafter] over the perishing one [this world]. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 7, pp. 165, Hadees 19717)

-2 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: حُبُّ الدُّنْیَا رَأسُ کُلِّ خَطِیْئَۃٍ i.e. Love of the world is the base of every sin. (Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 5, pp. 22, Hadees 9)

-3 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: اَحْرِصْ عَلٰی مَا یَنْفَعُکَ وَاسْتَعِنْ بِاللّٰہِ وَلَا تَعْجِزْ i.e. Be greedy for such thing that benefits you. Seek help from Allah Almighty and do not remain helpless . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1432, Hadees 2664)

Commentator of Sahih Muslim, Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Sharaf-ud-Deen Nawavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه writes in relation to the last Hadees-e-Pak: i.e. be extremely greedy in worshipping Allah Almighty and have the greed of being rewarded over it. However, even in this worship, instead of believing in your efforts, seek help from Allah Almighty. (Sharh Nawavi, part. 14, pp. 215)

Hakeem ul Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Be mindful that contentment and patience are good in worldly things, whereas for the matters of the Hereafter, greed and impatience are superior. Do not become content upon reaching any stage in Deen, instead, try to progress further. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 112)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We came to know that every greed is not bad. In fact, the greed that is associated with the affairs of the Hereafter is praiseworthy. We also came to know that no matter how many virtuous deeds a person performs, the greed for performing virtuous deeds shall not lessen. However, it is good to observe contentment in the worldly things. Let’s listen to the definition of contentment and its excellence.

Definition of contentment

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: When a person, being content with whatever he receives from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, lives his life and refrains from being greedy, is called contentment.

(Jannati Zaywar, pp. 136)

Whereas, while defining contentment, ‘Allamah Meer Sayyid Shareef Jurjaani Hanafi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said:

هِيَ السُّكُوۡنُ عِنۡدَ عَدَمِ الۡمَاۡلُوۡفَاتِ

To remain content even without having the things used in everyday life is contentment. (At-Ta’reefat lil-Jurjaani, pp. 126)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember, real wealthiness does not mean that a person has plenty of wealth, but real wealthiness is that a person has less wealth but is content over it; because a rich person regardless of possessing abundance of wealth, wishes for more and her wealth also keeps on decreasing. Whereas, a content person is such rich that in spite of having a very little wealth, does not desire for more. Furthermore, the wealth of contentment does not decrease either. Anyway, contentment is an excellent habit and one who is blessed with it is successful in the world and in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to a few narrations in order to create the love of contentment in our hearts.

Who is wealthier?

Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام humbly asked in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Who is the wealthiest person among your bondmen?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘The one who is most contented with the blessings blessed to him by Me.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 61, pp. 139, Raqm 7741)

The true richness

The Greatest and Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

لَيۡسَ الۡغِنٰى عَنۡ كَثۡرَةِ الۡعَرَضِ، وَلَكِنَّ الۡغِنٰى غِنَى النَّفۡسِ

i.e., richness does not mean abundance of possessions, rather, true richness is the richness of heart. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 233, Hadees 6446)

Successful Muslim

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Amr رَضِیَ اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَنْہُمَا has narrated that the Rasool of Rahmah, Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

‘ قَدۡ اَفۡلَحَ مَنۡ اَسۡلَمَ وَرُزِقَ كَفَافًا وَقَنَّعَهُ اللّٰهُ بِمَا اٰتَاهُ ’

i.e., undoubtedly, he is successful who has accepted Islam, who has been provided with adequate sustenance and been made contented by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with what He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 524, Hadees 1054)

Endless wealth

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَلۡقَنَاعَةُ كَنۡزٌ لَا يَفۡنٰي ’ i.e., contentment is an endless treasure. (Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer, pp. 88, Hadees 104)

Blessed Supplication of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم supplicated: ‘ اَللّٰهُمَّ اجۡعَلۡ رِزۡقَ اٰلِ مُحَمَّدٍ قُوۡتًا ’ i.e., O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Grant sustenance to the descendants of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) only as per need. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zakah, pp. 524, Hadees 1054)

Dear Islamic sisters! The abovementioned narrations carry encouragement and relief for those who instead of complaining and mourning over limited resources and less income, remain content upon the pleasure of Allah Almighty upon being blessed with adequate sustenance and wealth and avoid uttering the words of complaint and mourning. Undoubtedly, all this is due to the blessings of the eternal treasure of contentment. Moreover, we also came to know that our blessed and beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also made supplication for his blessed household and descendants to be granted with sustenance just according to their needs. Therefore, we shall also attain the blessings of remaining content upon having limited resources.

Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to be the embodiment of contentment. Wealth and possession had no value and importance to them. That’s why

they were always content upon whatever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted them and they led an extremely simple life.

In this relation, let’s hear about the Madani mindset and disinterest of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه from the wealth of the world.

Disinterest of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat from this world

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has a Kurta (long shirt up to the half shins) that has two pockets on his chest side. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has a small pocket to keep a blessed Miswak next to his left-side pocket (on the side of the heart). The reason for this, he mentioned that, ‘I want to keep the Miswak (the instrument of performing Sunnah) near my heart.’ On the other hand, his disinterest from the worldly wealth can be judged by the fact that it has been noticed whenever he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has to put money in his pocket for any need, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه puts it in the right pocket. Upon asking the reason, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه said: I do not put money in the left pocket because worldly wealth will be near my heart and I do not like it. Therefore, when needed, I put money in my right pocket. (Fikr-e-Madinah, pp. 121)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Following in the footsteps of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, we should also remove the thought of unnecessary wealth from our heart and enrich ourselves with the unending wealth of contentment. Believe me, if we are blessed with the wealth of contentment, we will get rid from the curse of greed for wealth.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy protecting Muslims from sins and taking them to the virtuous path all over the world. It is busy making efforts in presenting call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments in order to propagate this Madani activity further. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. The main aim of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing and to persuade them to act upon the Madani In’amaat.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May all the Islamic brothers and sisters act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate these Madani In’amaat in their Halqahs, areas, cities, villages, Goths (small villages) so that every Muslim practises them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the greatest reward of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s all make intention that we will not only try to act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of hospitality

-1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said: ‘Anybody who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Day of Judgement should entertain his guest with respect’. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 105, Hadees 6018)

Hakeem ul Ummat, Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states under this Hadees: ‘The respect of a guest is to meet him affably, to arrange for his food and other necessities and to provide him hospitality himself’. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 33, Hadees 16)

-2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When a guest comes to someone’s place, he brings his sustenance along with him. And when he leaves, he becomes the cause for forgiveness of sins of the host.’ (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 2, pp. 33, Hadees 1641)

… ٭ Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said to Sayyiduna Bara Bin Maalik رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ: O Bara! When a person provides his brother with hospitality for the [pleasure] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and does not want any reward or thanks for it, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends 10 angels to his house, who make the Tasbih, Tahleel and Takbeer of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ [i.e. glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] for one year, and they continue to make Du’a for his forgiveness, and when the year ends, the worship equal to the whole year worth of worship of these angels is recorded in his book of deeds, and it is upon the mercy and favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلّ will feed him on delicious foods of Paradise in ‘Jannat-ul-Khuld’ and in the everlasting kingdom. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 119, Hadees 25972)

… ٭ If a knife is placed on the hump of a camel, it will immediately fall down from it. Similarly, due to guest, blessings and goodness are showered even faster than it.

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ … ٭! When a guest comes to the home of anyone, it is as if the rain of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ starts pouring down, providing the host with the opportunity of earning huge reward.

… ٭ Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ has reported that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, ‘It is a Sunnah for a person to go to the door to bid farewell to his guest.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 52, Hadees 3358)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

