اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Method of Staying Safe from Calamities

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Durood Shareef

In blessed Tirmizi, a famous book of blessed Ahadees, it is stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَا جَلَسَ قَوْمٌ مَجْلِسًا لَمْ يَذْكُرُوا اللَّهَ فِيهِ،وَلَمْ يُصَلُّوا عَلَى نَبِيِّهِمْ اِلَّا كَانَ عَلَيْهِمْ تِرَةً فَاِنْ شَآءَ عَذَّبَهُمْ وَاِنْ شَاءَ غَفَرَ لَهُم

i.e. The people who sit in any such gathering in which they neither do the Zikr of Allah Almighty nor recite Durood upon their Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so [on the Judgement Day] the gathering will bring about wistfulness for them. Thus if Allah Almighty wills so He may torment them and if He wills, He may forgive [them]. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 247, Hadees 3391)

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some faith-refreshing events and parables of staying safe from calamities by virtue of the blessing of Sadaqah. Let’s, first of all, listen to a faith refreshing parable.

Woman found her drowned son by virtue of the blessing of Sadaqah

Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: There was a country whose king was very cruel and stingy. He made this announcement in his country, ‘No one shall give anything in Sadaqah to any Faqeer and Miskeen [1] [i.e. very destitute], and nor shall anyone help any poor person. If anyone does so, I will cut off his hand.’ Having heard this news everyone was scared and feared from giving Sadaqah. One day, a helpless Faqeer [i.e. poor person] went to a woman and said, ‘Please give me something to eat for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ The woman said, ‘Our king has announced that the hand of the person who will give Sadaqah to anyone will be cut off. How can I give you anything now?’ The poor person said, ‘Give me something to eat for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ Filled with pity for him, the woman gave him two rotis (bread) for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ignoring the displeasure and punishment from the king. Taking rotis the poor person left, making Du’a for her. When the king became aware that such and such a woman had violated his order, he sent two soldiers who cut off both of her hands.

After some time, the king said to his mother, ‘Tell me about the most beautiful woman; I will marry her.’ His mother replied, ‘In our country, there is a woman who is the most beautiful one in my opinion. I have never seen any other woman more beautiful than her, but there is a big defect in her. Both of her hands are cut off.’ The king ordered that the woman be brought to his court. The order was carried out and the king married her with her consent. They started living happily. Other wives of the king started feeling jealous day and night and tried all the time to degrade the new bride in front

of the king, but they could not succeed in their evil plan. Once, the king went to fight a war for a long period of time. Seizing the opportunity, the other wives sent a letter to the king, saying, ‘In your absence, your new bride has become unfaithful to you and has even given birth to a baby.’ When the king received this letter, he sent a message to his mother, saying that the woman [i.e. his new wife] along with the baby be turned out of the country. Therefore, with a piece of cloth around her neck and the new-born baby in it, she was turned out of the country and forced to live in a remote jungle where she continued to wander here and there. She was very thirsty and reached a stream in search of water. As she bowed down to drink water, her child fell into the water and began to drown. Seeing her drowning son, she began to cry.

In the meantime, two beautiful young men came and asked her the reason for crying. She said, ‘My son has drowned and I am crying for the same reason, grieving for him.’ The beautiful young men asked, ‘Do you want us to bring your drowned child back to you?’ She anxiously said, ‘Yes, I want Allah Almighty to return me, my drowned child.’ These young men made Du’a and brought her drowned son back and handed him over to her. They then asked, ‘O kind-hearted woman! Do you want to be blessed with both of your hands once again so that you are no longer handicapped?’ She replied, ‘Yes, I want it.’ Therefore, the two young men made Du’a and she was blessed with her hands once again. The woman thanked Allah Almighty. The young men then asked: O great woman! Do you know who we are? The woman replied that she did not recognize them. They said, ‘We are the very same two rotis you gave to a helpless poor person.’ (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 226, summarised)

Dear Islamic sisters! It has been learnt that the Sadaqah given in the path of Allah Almighty for His pleasure does not prove fruitless. In addition to the Sawab (reward) of the Hereafter, one also receives many blessings in the world and remains safe from many troubles, as happened to this woman. She felt pity for a hungry person and gave him two rotis as Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Even though she had to face difficulties for the time being – as other wives of the king conspired against her, both of her hands were cut off, she was turned out of the country and her son drowned in the stream – but she continued to face difficulties with great patience and persistence until she was given help by Allah Almighty from Ghayb.

Learning a lesson from this faith-refreshing parable, we should also make our Madani mind to remain pleased with the Will of Allah Almighty instead of complaining impatiently about the trouble, problem, illness and difficulty we face. For the solution of our problems and for protection from calamities, we should get into the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. However, at the same time, we should also be careful that we should not give our Sadaqat to any undeserving person. It is a sad fact that nowadays there are a huge number of professional beggars everywhere who instead of doing some work or job, beg and have made it their occupation.

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: An issue has become widespread these days. There are people who are healthy and fit enough to earn a livelihood and can even help others financially, but they do not get benefit from their body. [They have such mentality as] ‘Why should we work hard and face difficulties? When we are getting money without hard work, so why should we take the trouble to face hardships?’ They unlawfully ask others for money etc., and make both ends meet by means of begging. Many even consider it something insulting to engage in small-scale trade, let alone doing some sort of labour work. They consider begging a means of respect which is actually disrespect and shamefulness for such people. Moreover, there are many beggars who consider begging to be their ‘profession’. They have thousands of rupees at their home, give and take interest, do farming etc., but they do not give up begging. If advised, they reply, ‘It is our occupation. How can we leave our occupation?’ In fact, begging is Haraam for them and giving them money etc., is impermissible for those who know about their condition [that begging is their occupation]. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 940, summarised)

O devotees of Rasool! If a person has a machine and earns his livelihood by operating it, he takes great care of it in every possible way. If he becomes lazy in looking after it and does not clean it properly, it may break down and the owner of the machine may run into trouble, losing the financial benefits he obtains from it. Similarly, wealth is also a blessing from which we gain many benefits. Valuing it if we fulfil its rights, i.e. if we are careful about purifying it by paying Zakah etc., it will become a means of salvation for us in

the world as well as in the Hereafter. Further, Allah Almighty will get pleased with us and we will be protected from troubles and calamities. Therefore, instead of confining yourself to giving Sadaqah and charity only in the month of Ramadan, form the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity throughout the year. Also, persuade other Islamic sisters to do the same. It is the great deed which has been praised and we have been persuaded to give Sadaqah at several places in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 18 of Surah Al-Hadeed, part 27, Allah Almighty has said:

اِنَّ الْمُصَّدِّقِیْنَ وَ الْمُصَّدِّقٰتِ وَ اَقْرَضُوا اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا یُّضٰعَفُ لَهُمْ وَ لَهُمْ اَجْرٌ كَرِیْمٌ(۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the charitable men and women, and those who lend a good loan to Allah, for them is double (the reward), and for them is an honourable reward.

Similarly, the virtues of giving Sadaqah and charity have also been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to five blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for persuasion and make the intention to give Sadaqah and charity:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sadaqah closes 70 doors of evil. (Al-Mu’jam- ul-Kabeer, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 4402)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it [Sadaqah] becomes a shield between him and fire. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 286, Hadees 4617)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Give Sadaqah and treat your patients with [through] Sadaqah . Undoubtedly, Sadaqah prevents accidents and illnesses and it brings about increase in your deeds and virtues. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 282, Hadees 3556)

4. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Give Sadaqah early in the morning as calamity does not step ahead of Sadaqah .

(Shu’ab-ul- Iman, vol. 3, pp. 214, Hadees 3353)

5. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly, Sadaqah extinguishes the wrath of Allah Almighty and prevents bad death.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 146, Hadees 664)

Commenting on the last blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: A generous person, giving charity, leads a happy life and does not suffer from worldly troubles. If he ever faces tests and trials, Allah Almighty blesses him with the peace of heart which helps him to have patience and earns him reward.

In short, trouble does not lead him to commit any sin, but rather it brings him forgiveness. Bad death implies bad end or sudden death in heedlessness or it implies the appearance of a bad sign at the time of death, bringing him into disrepute after death or it implies a severe disease that makes the dying person extremely anxious, causing him to become heedless of the Zikr of Allah Almighty. In short, the generous person will remain safe from all these evils. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Sadaqah closes the doors of evils; Sadaqah extinguishes the wrath of Allah Almighty; Sadaqah provides cure for the ill; Sadaqah is a means of protection from accidents; Sadaqah increases good deeds and saves from bad death. But regretfully! Despite having so many virtues of Sadaqah, we hesitate to spend on good acts. Perhaps this is the reason why each of us suffers from different types of troubles. Someone is facing domestic and family quarrel, so someone is worried due to the different diseases, facing different difficulties and problems; people do not get cured of diseases even after undergoing treatment in the famous and costly Hospitals. Frequent domestic disputes and quarrels; many debtors are being burdened with heavy debts; crimes are increasing; surely all these are

the consequence of our bad deeds. Remember! Difficulties and diseases are part of one’s life. Therefore, instead of complaining about them and feeling disappointed, one should perform good deeds with sincerity, refrain from sins and get into the habit of giving Sadaqah as Sadaqah not only saves a person from calamities but by virtue of the blessing of it she is also blessed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with reward.

How did earth turn to nice flour?

Sayyiduna ‘Ata رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated from his father: Once the respected wife of a famous pious person Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him, ‘We have no more flour and have nothing to eat.’ Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Do you have any money to buy flour?’ She humbly replied, ‘I have one dirham which I have got by selling wool.’ He said, ‘Give me the dirham; I will buy flour.’ Taking the dirham and a bag, he went to the marketplace. When he intended to buy flour from a shop, a beggar suddenly came and said, ‘O Abu Muslim Kholaani! Give me this Dirham as Sadaqah. Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Khoalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the shop and went to another one.

As he intended to buy flour, the same beggar came again and said, ‘O Abu Muslim Kholaani! I am very helpless; give me this dirham as Sadaqah.’ The beggar continued to follow him. Eventually, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him the dirham. He began to think ‘What will now I give to my family? Seeing the empty bag, they will get worried’, he thought to himself anxiously. He then went to a carpenter shop where he filled his bag with sawdust and soil and walked home. He knocked on the door and the door was opened. As the door opened, he handed over the bag to his family and returned even without entering home.

Thinking that his family would get worried after they found out that the bag was full of sawdust and soil, Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani became very worried and did not go home all day long. On the other hand, when his respected wife opened the bag, it was full of very high-quality flour. Therefore, she cooked food quickly and began to wait for him. Late night, he secretly entered home, so his respected wife brought him fresh rotis at once.

Amazed to see the rotis he asked, ‘Where did you get these rotis from?’ His respected wife replied, ‘These are the rotis from the flour you had brought.’ Listening to it he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه began to cry and thanked Allah Almighty for turning the soil to flour and keeping his dignity intact.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 170, slightly amended)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Have you heard? Giving Sadaqah and helping the poor are liked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ very much. If a Muslim pleases the hearts of the poor by sincerely giving them Sadaqah and charity, Allah Almighty, Who bestows respect upon His bondman, does not let her feel embarrassed in front of anyone despite her poverty. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows upon her even more than her expectation, as has been understood by the above-mentioned parable. Despite being a needy person, Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the amount of flour in the Divine path as Sadaqah which was accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who turned sawdust and soil to good quality flour. In this way, he and his family members were blessed with excellent rotis. Therefore, while giving Sadaqah and charity, we should not have such thoughts as ‘ our money will decrease or what will we eat? Or we need money for such-and-such a piece of work, etc.’

Remember! Apparently, it seems to us that our wealth will decrease but in fact, Sadaqah increases our wealth and we get many benefits in the world as well as in the Hereafter. However, if we do not give Sadaqah due to the fear of decrease in our wealth, it may remove blessings from our sustenance and may cause poverty.

Sayyidatuna Asma رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to her, ‘Do not stop Sadaqah and charity lest your sustenance is stopped.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 483, Hadees 1433)

Commenting on the above-mentioned Hadees, Sayyiduna Imam Badruddin ‘Ayni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Do not refrain from giving your wealth in Sadaqah for fear that it will finish; Allah Almighty will make you suffer from financial problems or will prevent wealth from you and will deprive you of

the means of sustenance. The blessed Hadees proves that Sadaqah increases wealth and is a means of blessing and increase in it. On the other hand, if a person is a miser and does not give Sadaqah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will reduce his wealth and will prevent blessing and (there will be no) increase in his wealth. (‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 6, pp. 410, Taht-al-Hadees: 1433)

Anyhow, we should form the habit of giving as much Sadaqah and charity as possible for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. We should also have absolute trust in Him, hoping to be blessed with a better reward for our Sadaqah in the world as well as in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to a parable about how absolute trust our pious predecessors had in Allah Almighty.

Twenty rotis in return for two; how?

Two pious persons once came to Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا to meet her and started talking to each other, saying, ‘If Raabi’ah serves us food this time, it will be something very good because we will be able to eat Halal sustenance here.’ At that time, she had only two rotis at her home which she put in front of them. In the meantime, a beggar came and asked for something to eat. Picking up those two roties, she gave them to the beggar. Those two personages were surprised to see it. Soon a slave girl arrived at her home holding many hot rotis and humbly said, ‘My madam has sent them.’ When Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا counted them, they were 18 in number. Seeing it she said to the slave girl, ‘Perhaps you have had some misunderstanding. These rotis have been sent to someone else, not to me. But the slave girl said, ‘I am sure these have been sent to you.’ However, Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا sent them back despite her repeated insistence. After the slave girl returned and told the whole story to her madam, she said, ‘Add two more rotis to them and then take them. When the slave girl came with twenty rotis, Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basriyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا counted them and then she served them to her guests.

After both of the guests had eaten food, they asked about the reason for what she did. So, she explained, ‘When you came, I realized that you were hungry. Therefore, I served you what I had at home. In the meantime, a beggar came and asked for something to eat, so I gave those two rotis to him and made Du’a to Allah Almighty, ‘O Allah Almighty! You have promised that

You give ‘ten’ in return for ‘one’ and I have absolute trust in Your promise.’ When the slave girl brought eighteen rotis, I realized that there was definitely something wrong. I, therefore, sent them back, but when she brought twenty rotis, I accepted them by considering it to be the fulfilment of the Divine promise. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 68)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed wealth upon His bondmen. Some of His bondmen help their Muslim brothers by giving them Sadaqah and charity; they spend money generously on the construction of Masajid, Madaris and other religious activities; some fortunate people help poor Islamic students in a way that they buy copies of the Holy Quran for some students and for some students they buy books; some devotees of Rasool take on the responsibility of the monthly salaries of the teachers and Madani staff of Jami’aat and Madaris; some fortunate individuals are privileged to take on the responsibility of paying the kitchen expenses of Jami’aat and Madaris.

On the contrary, some people are no doubt wealthy, but they are stingy. They do not even spend money on fulfilling the rights of their own children, let alone spending money on the well-wishing of Muslims and on other virtuous deeds. Even if you tell them countless virtues and blessings of giving Sadaqah and charity in the Divine path, they do not have pity for any poor person. If they are requested to give financial assistance for the construction of a Madrasah etc., and for other good deeds, they get rid of the matter by saying, ‘ I am short of money these days. Please, come to me later on ’. On the other hand, when they suffer from any illness or get into debt so they think about sympathizing with the poor, helping them, constructing Madaris and giving Sadaqah and charity.

O devotees of Rasool! There is an important point to remember. There may be a Islamic sister who has been suffering from diseases for a long period of time or who has been in huge debts for many years or often suffers loss in her business or has sustained a loss of hundreds of thousands of rupees or

millions of rupees due to her house catching fire or even any of her close relatives has died. Satan may exploit the situation and whisper to us on these occasions. Satan may make us have a bad assumption about her, making us think that such-and-such a person is suffering loss simply because she is a miser and does not give Sadaqah and charity. She feels uneasy and uncomfortable when it comes to spending in the Divine path. She even dislikes it. Remember! On such an occasion, we must reject these satanic whispers because we do not know for sure that such and such an Islamic sister has suffered from such-and-such a disease because of her miserliness or she has suffered such-and-such a trouble because of not giving Sadaqah and charity. We should always have a good assumption about every Islamic sister. We do not know that what rank one holds in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We do not know whose Sadaqah and charity He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will accept. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to protect the honour of every Muslim and bless us with the great wealth of having a good assumption about Muslims! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Accursed Satan prevents a person from spending in virtuous acts by making her feel the fear of reduction in wealth. Before we suffer from any trouble or face any calamity, we should keep giving Sadaqah and charity so that we can stay safe from upcoming calamities. Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing parables about it and make the intention to give Sadaqah and charity.

How did child survive?

Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘A woman was about to eat a morsel. Meanwhile, a beggar came and asked for food. She gave the same morsel to the beggar. After some time, she gave birth to a baby. When her child grew a little, a wolf took him away. The woman ran after the wolf calling out ‘My Son! My Son! Allah Almighty ordered an angel to go after the wolf and snatch the child from the wolf (and hand him over to his mother) and say to his mother: ‘Allah Almighty has sent Salam to you and said that

this morsel is in return for [your] morsel. (Al-Mujalisah wa-Jawahir-ul-‘Ilm, vol. 3, pp. 277, Hadees 3622)

One roti saved from destruction

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There was a person before you who would take out baby birds from their nest every time. The bird made a complaint against him to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘If he continues to do the same, he will be destroyed.’ The same person that year when left his home with a ladder to catch the baby birds, he found a beggar on the way. He gave the beggar a roti out of his provisions. He then climbed up the tree and caught the baby birds. The parents of the baby birds were watching this scene. They humbly said in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘O Allah Almighty! You promised us that he will be destroyed this time, but he is going absolutely safe and sound. Allah Almighty said, ‘Don’t you know that the person who gives something in Sadaqah on any day, I do not destroy him that day nor does any evil reach him that day.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 159, Hadees 16112)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard! These parables contain amazing blessings of Sadaqah. In the first parable, a woman attained the blessing of giving a morsel in Sadaqah as an angel saved her child from the mouth of a wolf and returned him to her and thus the life of the child was saved. In the second parable, the person who would take out baby birds from their nest stayed safe from the destruction because he also gave a roti in Sadaqah on the way. Therefore develop the feeling of the poverty of the poor; help them in their bad times by giving them Sadaqah. In order to attain this Madani thought, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and participate practically in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah and present people the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Some people have the habit of becoming lazy and stingy in giving Sadaqah and charity under the pretext of being poor and start making many complaints if they are asked about their condition. This is the dangerous evil which has also been condemned in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 38 of Surah Muhammad, part 26, it is stated:

هٰۤاَنْتُمْ هٰۤؤُلَآءِ تُدْعَوْنَ لِتُنْفِقُوْا فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِۚ-فَمِنْكُمْ مَّنْ یَّبْخَلُۚ-وَ مَنْ یَّبْخَلْ فَاِنَّمَا یَبْخَلُ عَنْ نَّفْسِهٖؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ الْغَنِیُّ وَ اَنْتُمُ الْفُقَرَآءُۚ-وَ اِنْ تَتَوَلَّوْا یَسْتَبْدِلْ قَوْمًا غَیْرَكُمْۙ-ثُمَّ لَا یَكُوْنُوْۤا اَمْثَالَكُمْ۠(۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Yes, certainly! It is you who are being called, that you may spend in Allah’s path. So someone amongst you acts miserly, and whoever is miserly, he is being a miser upon himself. And Allah is Independent (from your wealth), and you are all needy. And if you turn your face away (from His obedience), so He will replace you with other people, and they will not be like you (they will be better than you in the obedience of Allah).

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na'eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Stinginess means to prevent. In terminology, stinginess means to prevent wealth from [spending at] the place where it is not good [to be prevented]; it is also stinginess to not fulfil the rights [whether a person does not fulfil the right of people or Shari’at or the Right of Allah Almighty], therefore the one who does not pay Zakat, does not spend money on his needy parents, wife and children, relatives and on himself is a miser. Similarly, if a person does not spend on Muslims when needed, he is also a miser. (Tafseer Na’eemi vol. 4, pp. 377)

Dear Islamic sisters! Zakat, Sadaqah and charity are financial forms of worship. Allah Almighty enables the people to perform this worship who have the passion to fulfil the needs of the poor and the needy. The people, who do not pay their Zakat, etc., remain busy satisfying their needs and increasing their bank balance. Perhaps they feel that the way they are satisfied, in the same way, the others will be too. Stinginess is a very

dangerous disease. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it and learn a lesson.

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Stinginess is a tree in Hell. The one who is stingy has held its twig ; the twig will not leave him until it makes him enter Hell. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 435, Hadees 10877)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The rich will enter Hell without any accountability due to becoming stingy. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 444, Hadees 3309)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Every such day when bondmen get up in the morning, two angels descend on him, one of the angels says: O Allah Almighty! Give reward to the one who spends [in Your way] and the second one says: O Allah Almighty! Destroy the wealth of a miser. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-uz-Zakat, vol. 1, pp. 485, Hadees 1442)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Have you heard! A miser is so unfortunate that he makes himself deserving of Hell by becoming stingy. He loses his wealth due to the Du’a for destruction made by innocent angels. Therefore, it is better that one should fulfil the rights of wealth and form the habit of giving Sadaqah and charity generously. Remember! If we do not fulfil the rights of wealth, so the same wealth which we have saved with great love can bring downright disgrace on us tomorrow.

Introduction to departments of Dawat-e-Islami

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, currently, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is serving Sunnah approximately in 200 countries of the world and in approximately 107 departments. These Majalis include Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Hifz and Naazirah of Madani children (boys and girls), Madrasa tul Madinah [for adults] for the Quranic education of elder Islamic sisters, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ for seeking Shar'i guidance, ‘Majlis Al-Madinah-tul-

'Ilmiyyah’ for propagating the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and for providing reformatory books, ‘Majlis-e-Maktubat and Ta'wizaat-e-Attariyyah’ for spiritual treatment, ‘Madani Channel’ for conveying the call towards righteousness through electronic media to every corner of the world, Weekly Ijtima'aat and other Madani activities for Islamic sisters, Madani In'amaat, which are in the form of questions, for developing the passion in Muslims to become pious practising Muslims and weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima'aat and Madani Muzakarahs which are also arranged in many countries of the world. Central Majlis Shura has also been established in order to monitor the performance of all these departments and to run the whole Madani system in the entire world in an excellent way. Therefore participate actively in virtuous activities by giving your Sadaqah, charity and other Nafl donations to Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and collect virtues for your Hereafter.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the website of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, www.dawateislami.net you can also deposit your Wajib and Nafl Sadaqat with the help of online facility.

Madani pearls of conversation

1. Talk smilingly and cheerfully.

2. With the intention of pleasing Islamic sisters, talk to the elders with respect and to youngsters with affection اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before both of them.

3. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, like many friends frankly do when talking to each other these days, is not a Sunnah.

4. Whether it is a new-born baby [or child of any age], with good intentions, make it your habit to talk to him with good manners. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, your manners will improve and the child will also learn manners.

5. During conversation, touching private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, repeatedly touching nose in front of others, or inserting finger into the nose or ear, repeatedly spitting are disliked acts, others find them offensive.

6. Keep listening to the other Islamic sister calmly as long as she is speaking. It is not a Sunnah to start saying what you want to say by cutting her short.

7. Do not laugh whilst talking, or rather in any situation. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم never laughed.

8. Excessive talking and laughing destroys a person’s dignity.

9. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has stated, ‘The one who keeps silent, attains salvation.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 225, Hadees 2509)

10. When speaking to someone, there should be a specific purpose of conversation, and always talk to people according to their psychology and tolerance.

11. Always avoid using foul and indecent language. Refrain from swearing. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

