اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Recitation of the Holy Quran and Muslims

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ فِیْ یَوْمٍ اَلْفَ مَرَّۃٍ لَمْ یَمُتْ حَتّٰی یَرٰی مَقْعَدَہُ مِنَ الْجَنَّۃِ

i.e. The one who recites Durood upon me one thousand times a day will not die until he sees his abode in Paradise. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 326, Hadees 2590)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Undoubtedly, reciting the Holy Quran, listening to it and acting upon it is a means of blessings and salvation in the Hereafter. But unfortunately, Muslims don’t have time to recite, comprehend and act upon it. Some people attain this privilege in Ramadan-ul-Kareem, but some don’t even recite it in the Holy Ramadan, in fact even remain deprived of beholding it. Similarly, some people waste their precious time in the name of “time pass” in restaurants, useless gatherings, parks, enlivening mixed entertainment spots, reading newspapers, watching films, dramas or musical

programs, having political and sports discussions, playing mobile or computer games and in sinful usage of social media. If such people spend their precious time in reciting at least one Parah everyday instead of wasting it in such useless activities, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will have numerous virtues written in their Book of Deeds by the virtue of it.

Remember! Glorious Quran contains the rulings of Halal and Haraam, warnings, admonitions, pearls of advice, parables and affairs of blessed Ambiya عَلَیْہِمُ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلام and previous nations, and how Paradise and Hell are. In addition to it, it contains such treasure of knowledge that cannot come to an end even until the Day of Judgement.

It is mentioned in Dawat-e-Islami’s publishing department, Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s book “Quranic Wonders”: The Holy Quran is although a combination of 30 Parahs, but in essence, it contains a treasure of millions, rather billions of such sciences and wisdom that can never come to an end. It is a famous couplet of a blessed saint:

جَمِیْعُ الْعِلْمِ فِی الْقُرْاٰنِ لٰکِنْ تَقَاصَرَ عَنْہُ اَفْہَامُ الرِّجَالِ

i.e. knowledge of all sciences exists in the Holy Quran but the intellects of people are unable to comprehend it.

Holy Quran does not only contain the knowledge of sciences, but the truth is that it contains evident and detailed knowledge regarding every single thing of this universe. Meaning that information regarding every star of the sky, every drop of the oceans, every straw of grass of the world’s greenery, every sand particle of the deserts, every leaf of the trees, every corner of ‘Arsh and Kursi, every corner of the universe, every incident of the past, all present affairs, and every event of the future has explicitly been mentioned in detail in the Glorious Quran.

Holy Quran is such treasure of knowledge and sciences that can never come to an end. In fact, blessed scholars will keep deriving [pleasantly] strange and astonishing branches of sciences from this vast ocean [of knowledge] until the Day of Judgement and hundreds and thousands of books will be compiled.

(Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’a Gharaib-ul-Quran, pp. 420, 419)

So today, let’s listen to some faith-refreshing parables and narrations of the reciters of this highly esteemed and dignified Book so that we also develop the passion and eagerness of reciting this sacred book of Allah Almighty too.

Angels used to come to listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: One night, Sayyiduna Usayd Bin Hudair رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was reciting the Holy Quran near the place where he would tie up his horse. All of a sudden, his horse started to jump. He started the recitation of the Holy Quran again and the horse started jumping again. Same thing happened the third time. Sayyiduna Usayd Bin Hudair رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: I was scared in case the horse tramples (my son) Ya’hya. Therefore, I went towards the horse and saw that an umbrella has cast a shadow over my head which has lit up lamps inside it. Then it got lost in the atmosphere and disappeared from my sight.

In the morning, I went in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Last night, I was reciting the Holy Quran at the place where I tie up my horse. All of a sudden, my horse started to jump. When I came outside, I saw an umbrella casting a shadow over my head having lit up lamps inside it. Then, it kept ascending in the air to the extent that it disappeared from my sight. At that time, (my son) Ya’hya was near the horse. I was scared in case the horse tramples him.’ Listening to it, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘They were angels who came to listen to your Qira`at [recitation of the Holy Quran]. Had you continued reciting the Holy Quran, then people would have seen them in the morning and none of them would have remained concealed.’

(Muslim, Raqm 796, pp. 311)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Excellence of reciting the Holy Quran

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! We came to know from the aforementioned narration that the place where the Holy Quran is recited, angels of mercy descend there. Mercy of Allah Almighty descends there. Due to the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran, other creatures in the surroundings also witness the Divine manifestation. As you have heard that one companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ kept reciting the Holy Quran and his horse witnessed the angels, and he himself also witnessed angels in the shape of a lit up lamp.

Remember! Holy Quran is an extremely sacred Word of Allah Almighty. Reciting it, teaching it, listening to it and making others listen to it are all acts of reward. Not only reciting it is an act of reward but even beholding it is also an act of worship.

It has been stated in a Hadees: اَلنَّظْرُ فِی الْمُصْحَفِ i.e. Beholding the Holy Quran is [an act of] worship. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 187, Hadees 7860)

This is the reason why the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم persuaded the blessed Companions عَلَیْہِمُ الرِّضْوَان from time to time to recite the Holy Quran. Moreover, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned its excellences in various Ahadees too. In this relation, let’s listen to three Ahadees.

Will be made to wear heavenly attire

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, a Quran reciter will come and the Holy Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty, make him wear the heavenly attire.’ So he will be made to wear a heavenly attire of nobility. Then the Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty! Increase it.’ Then he will be made to wear the crown of nobility. Then the Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty! Be pleased with him.’ Then Allah Almighty will get pleased with him. Then, it will be said to the Quran reciter: ‘Keep reciting the Holy Quran and keep ascending the ranks of Paradise.’ And he will be given one blessing upon every Ayah. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 419, Hadees 2924)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Allah Almighty removes worldly calamities from the one who listens to the Holy Quran and removes the calamities of the Hereafter from the one who recites it. Listening to one Ayah of the Holy Quran is even more than the treasure of gold. Reciting its one Ayah is superior to everything that exists beneath the ‘Arsh. (Musnad Al Firdaus, vol. 5, pp. 259, Hadees 8122)

3. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who recites one letter of the book of Allah Almighty will receive one virtuous deed that will be equal to ten. I do not say that Alif Laam Meem الٓـمّٓ is one letter. Rather, Alif اَلِف is one letter, Laam لام is one letter and Meem میم is one letter. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 417, Hadees 2919)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! From the aforementioned Ahadees, we came to know that by reciting the Holy Quran and listening to its recitation, our worldly calamities and problems get removed. Muslims remain safe from troubles and evils. Recitation of the Holy Quran is better than the worldly wealth. In fact, reciting one letter of the Holy Quran makes one earn ten virtuous deeds.

We further came to know that the hearts of those who keep reciting the Holy Quran attain solace and tranquillity. Mercy of Allah Almighty showers upon such fortunate people immensely. Such people will be made to enter Paradise in the Hereafter, to the extent that they will be made to ascend Heavenly ranks according to their recitation of the Holy Quran. Therefore, we should develop a habit of taking time out every day for the recitation of the Holy Quran wholeheartedly so that we may also attain the blessings of the Holy Quran.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadan! How fortunate are we that Allah Almighty blessed us to witness the great splendours of Ramadan once again. Remember! Ramadan “ is also the month of the revelation of the Holy Quran” . What a great deprivation it would be if we are unable to recite the Holy Quran even in this sacred month. This is the same very sacred month in which the reward of a Nafl act is equal to a Fard act and the reward of a Fard act is multiplied 70 times .

Making the most out of the presence of this sacred month, let’s make an intention that we will be privileged to recite the Holy Quran abundantly especially in this sacred month. Set a time for everyday. For example, from this time to this time, I will be privileged to recite this much Holy Quran. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ اللهُ عَنْهُما had fixed a set amount of the Holy Quran to be recited. During this time, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not speak to anyone.

In case you do not know how to recite the Holy Quran, then take admission in Madrassa-tul-Madinah Baalighan and try to learn it. If you know how to recite it, then teach others. There are a large number of Muslims who come to Masjid only in the month of Ramadan. Therefore, we shall make proper arrangements to teach them Salah and the Holy Quran. It is a very big act of piety. If someone starts offering Salah or starts reciting the Holy Quran correctly due to our small effort, then we are hopeful from the mercy of Allah Almighty that a great treasure of reward will be collected for us, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Passion of the recitation of the Holy Quran and righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن

O devotees of Awliya! Our noble saints رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن spend their entire life following the commandments of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat, these fortunate individuals also offer Sunnahs and Mustahabbat punctually. They passionately stay awake at nights and worship Allah Almighty and observe Sawm during the day. These possessors of noble character not only recite the Glorious Quran abundantly themselves

but also impart the teachings of the Holy Quran to Muslims too. For persuasion, let’s listen to some parables of the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن so that we also develop a similar kind of mind-set. Moreover, following in their footsteps, we also become among those who recite the Holy Quran abundantly and also teach it to others.

Embraced Islam by looking at [the acts of] worship and ascetic practices

In the early days of Islam, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ built a Masjid in the courtyard of his house. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to recite the Holy Quran and offer Salah there. Seeing this faith-refreshing act of his, people used to gather around him. His recitation of the Holy Quran, acts of worship and ascetic practices and crying in the Divine fear of Allah Almighty used to impress people a lot. Due to this very action of his, many people entered the fold of Islam. (Al Riyad…, vol. 1, pp. 92)

Sahabah’s عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ way of reciting the Holy Quran

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: (Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen) Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would complete the Quran in one night. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 270)

Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtaza رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would start reciting the Holy Quran when placing his foot in the stirrup while mounting on a horse and would complete reciting it by the time he would have his other foot in the stirrup and be firmly sat on the saddle of the horse. (Shawahid-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 212)

What a majesty of the devotee of Quran

Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to complete the entire Quran once everyday. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always observe Sawm during the day and worship the entire night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer 2 Rak’at Salah (Tahiyyat-ul-Masjid) whichever Masjid he would pass by. With the intention of expressing the blessing, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘I have completed the Holy Quran and implored in the Divine court next to every pillar of Jami’ Masjid.’

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had especial love for Salah and the recitation of the Holy Quran. One gets envious of the mercies that were showered upon him. Therefore, it is narrated: ‘Whenever people would pass by his blessed shrine, voice of the recitation of the Holy Quran could be heard from his blessed grave.’

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 364-366; summarised)

Competing in reciting the Holy Quran

(Once), Sayyiduna Sheikh Baha-ud-Deen Zakariyya Multani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to his friends at night time: ‘Is there anyone among you who would offer two rak’at Salah tonight and recite the entire Quran in one Rak’at?’ No one among the attendees had the courage to reply. Sayyiduna Sheikh Baha-ud-Deen Zakariyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood up himself and started offering 2 Rak’at Salah. In the first Rak’at, he recited the entire Quran with further 4 parahs; and in the second Rak’at, he recited Surah e Ikhlas and completed his Salah. (Fawaad-ul-Fawaaid, pp. 62; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that how eagerly the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty would recite the Holy Quran day and night. They loved the sacred book so much that they would complete reciting it within a very short span of time. But alas! Majority of Muslims nowadays are unaware of the Quranic teachings. Some unfortunate people don’t even know how to recite the Holy Quran even by looking at it and those who do know how to recite it don’t even open the Holy Quran in years. Many months pass by and the houses of Muslims remain deprived of the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran. Let’s make an intention that while acting upon these Ahadees and adopting the practices of righteous predecessors, we will not only start reciting the Holy Quran ourselves from today but will also persuade others to do so.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is that Masjid-filling Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool whose Madani aim contains the persuasion of spreading

the teachings of the Holy Quran. What is that Madani aim? Let’s repeat it together: “I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ”. This Madani aim contains a message of reformation of the people of the entire world along with one’s own reformation. Teachings of the Holy Quran carry fundamental importance for people’s reform. How can one arrive at the destination without the guidance of the Holy Quran? How can one hope for success while forgetting the teachings of the Holy Quran? Holy Quran is the source of guidance.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is striving in different ways to spread the teachings of the Holy Quran. One way of spreading the teachings of Holy Quran is also to hold thousands of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan [for Islamic brothers] at various locations, Masajid, etc., normally after Isha Salah. Moreover, thousands of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat [for Islamic sisters] are held almost everyday in different countries of the world mainly at homes.

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, adult Islamic brothers are taught Naazirah Quran at different locations (for e.g. Masajid, offices, markets, shops, etc.) at different times free of cost. Along with the teaching of Naazirah Quran, they are also taught the basic rulings of Salah as well as Sunnahs and manners. There are more than 24,500 Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan in Pakistan and abroad with approximately 145,000 students studying in them.

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat

The way teachings of the Holy Quran are being spread among adult Islamic brothers, similarly, efforts are being made in spreading the teachings of the Holy Quran among adult Islamic sisters too. Number of the female students studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat is around more than 63,000.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Holy Quran is that sacred Book in which Allah Almighty has mentioned so many commandments. Some of the commandments are such that Allah Almighty has commanded Muslims to act upon. For example, offering Salah, paying Zakah, observing Siyam of blessed Ramadan, performing Hajj if one is capable of doing so, fulfilling the rights of parents and treating them nicely, women to observe Shar’i veil, greet Muslims with Salaam and being courteous to them. Whereas, some evil actions are such that Allah Almighty has commanded to abstain from. For example, robbery, committing fornication, dealing with usury [interest], drinking alcohol, lying, unlawful business transactions, being furious on someone unnecessarily, calling someone with bad names and various other evil actions. In short, this sacred book mentions all those things by virtue of acting upon which a Muslim not only benefits in this world but will also اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ attain immense reward in the Hereafter too. Therefore, we should act upon these commandments wholeheartedly with steadfastness so that our Dunya [this world] and the Hereafter can get better.

Allah Almighty says in part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah No. 155:

وَ هٰذَا كِتٰبٌ اَنْزَلْنٰهُ مُبٰرَكٌ فَاتَّبِعُوْهُ وَ اتَّقُوْا لَعَلَّكُمْ تُرْحَمُوْنَۙ(۱۵۵)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: And this (Qur’aan) is the blessed Book which We have revealed; so follow it and practise piety, that you may receive mercy.

Right of the Holy Quran upon the Ummah

Under the aforementioned sacred Ayah, it is stated in “Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan”, vol. 3, pp. 247: From this Ayah, we came to know that one of the rights of the Holy Quran upon the Ummah is (also) that they follow this sacred book and refrain from disobeying its commandments. Unfortunately, in the current era, Muslims are in a very pitiful state in regards to acting upon the Holy Quran. Today, instead of reciting this sacred book everyday, Muslims have kept it in their homes wrapped up in beautiful covers and at their business places as a means of blessings. Even those who do recite it

neither recite it correctly nor do they make efforts to understand what Allah Almighty has mentioned for them in this sacred book.

History is evident that as long as Muslims kept this sacred book highly esteemed and strictly followed its rules and commandments, until then, their grandeur was acclaimed all over the world. The hearts of non-believers would tremble with fear as soon as they would hear the names of Muslims. And since Muslims have stopped acting upon the commandments of the Holy Quran, they are being disgraced all over the world and have become dependent upon others. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 3, pp. 247; summarised)

Persuasion of acting upon the commandments of the Holy Quran

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The purpose of the Books of Allah Almighty is for one to act according to their commandments, not merely recite it in a sequence through tongue. Its example is that a king sends a letter to one of the rulers of his kingdom and orders him to build a palace for him in a so-and-so city. Now when the ruler gets the letter, he doesn’t get the palace built as instructed in the letter, but reads the letter everyday. So when the king goes there and does not see a palace built there, then certainly the ruler will be deserving of punishment because he did not act upon the order of the king despite reading it.

So Holy Quran is also like that letter in which Allah Almighty has commanded His bondmen to act upon the pillars of Islam, such as offering Salah, observing Siyam, etc. If people merely keep reciting the Holy Quran and do not act upon the commandments of Allah Almighty, then their mere recitation of the Holy Quran is not beneficial in true sense. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, Al-Baqarah Tahtul Ayah 64, vol. 1, pp.155 summarized)

“Sada-e-Madinah”, one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! We came to know that acting upon the Holy Quran is also very important along with reciting it. So if all the Muslims start acting upon the Holy Quran along with reciting it, then they will indeed attain its immense blessings. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of

the devotees of Rasool, not only makes Muslims devotees of the Holy Quran but also ignites the passion among them to act upon its commandments. You too be associated with this Madani environment and spread the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqa in your area. Remember! “Sada-e-Madinah” is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqa. Waking up Muslims for Fajr Salah is called “Sada-e-Madinah” in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the virtue of Sada-e-Madinah, one can attain the privilege of (offering) Tahajjud Salah.

٭ By the virtue of Sada-e-Madinah, one’s Salah gets protected.

٭ By the virtue of Sada-e-Madinah, one can offer Fajr Salah in the first row of Masjid with Takbeer-e-Aula.

٭ By the virtue of “Sada-e-Madinah”, one can also gain the reward of “calling towards righteousness”.

٭ By the virtue of Sada-e-Madinah, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, gets acclaimed and publicised.

٭ One calling out Sada-e-Madinah gives the Du’as of Hajj and visiting Madinah again and again to Muslims. If Allah Almighty wills, these Du’as will also be accepted in his favour.

٭ Due to walking during calling out “Sada-e-Madinah”, one’s health would also get better.

٭ Calling out “Sada-e-Madinah” is waking Muslims up for Fajr Salah. And waking Muslims up for Fajr Salah is the Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtaza رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to wake people up for Fajr Salah while going to the Masjid. (Tabqat Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263)

In order to know more detailed information about the daily Madani activity of “Sada-e-Madinah”, read Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s booklet “Sada-e-Madinah”. All Islamic brothers should definitely read this booklet. Along with

being available on Maktaba-tul-Madinah, this booklet can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of reading this booklet, you will be able to know:

٭ What is Sada-e-Madinah?

٭ Benefits of Sada-e-Madinah

٭ Introduction of Dawat-e-Islami

٭ Worldly benefits of Sada-e-Madinah

٭ Few Madani pearls of Sada-e-Madinah

٭ Method of Sada-e-Madinah in street

٭ In Ramadan, couplets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ comprising of Sada-e-Sahari

٭ Madani parables of Sada-e-Madinah

٭ Few selected Madani pearls of Sada-e-Madinah

٭ In addition to the above, various other Madani pearls are also shining in it.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of calling out Sada-e-Madinah.

Sada-e-Madinah leads to Madinah

One Islamic brother of Kasur, Punjab, was in fact associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees Rasool, but was lazy in terms of carrying out Madani activities. Coincidently, he met the zonal Mushawarat Zimmedar (responsible) Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami in Muharram-ul-Haraam 1431 A.H, corresponding to January 2010. When he came to know about his lack of interest in the Madani activities, then while performing individual efforts, he not only gave him the mindset of carrying out the Madani activities but also persuaded him to call out Sada-e-Madinah punctually. In this regard, he also relayed him the saying

of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ “Sada-e-Madinah dikhaye Madinah” [Sada-e-Madinah leads to Madinah]. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he developed a mind-set to act accordingly and started acting upon it from the very next day with the hope of visiting Madinah. As he started calling out Sada-e-Madinah, mercy of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم showered upon him. How his fortune shone was that the same year, he was privileged to pay a visit in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . More rain of mercy showered upon him that by the virtue of calling out Sada-e-Madinah, his elder brother was also blessed with the privilege of performing Hajj.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Command of reciting the Holy Quran and its requirements

O devotees of Rasool! The way we have been commanded to recite the Holy Quran and there have been numerous virtues mentioned for it in Ahadees to persuade us, similarly, we have also been commanded to act upon its commandments. There have been severe warnings of torments as well for those who do not act upon the commandments of the Holy Quran. Along with reading the translation of Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman, we should also read its commentary Sirat-ul-Jinaan/Khaza’in-ul-Irfan or Noor-ul-Irfan. Contemplating and pondering over the Holy Quran and comprehending it is a highly ranked act of worship.

Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reciting one Ayah while comprehending and contemplating is better than reciting the entire Quran without contemplating it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 170)

Punishment of not acting upon the Holy Quran

It is narrated by the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی: At times, a person starts reciting a Surah and angels keep supplicating for mercy for him until he recites it completely. At times, a person starts reciting a Surah and angels keep cursing him until he recites it completely. It was humbly asked: ‘How is that?’ The reply was: ‘When a person considers its Halal to be Halal and

Haraam to be Haraam, then angels supplicate for mercy for him, otherwise, they curse him. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 365)

Those not acting upon the Holy Quran

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: On the Day of Judgement, the Holy Quran will be given a form of a person. Then, he [the Holy Quran] will be brought to such a person who despite being a scholar of Quran kept opposing its commandments. While opposing that person, the Holy Quran will say: ‘O my Allah Almighty! He acquired my knowledge but he is a very bad scholar. He violated my boundaries. He ignored my Faraaid. He kept disobeying me and left my obedience.’ Holy Quran will keep blaming him with proofs. To the extent, it will be said: Your affair in his regard is in your hands. Holy Quran will take him holding his hand, to the extent that he will throw him flat on his face on a rock in the Hell. (Musannaf Ibn-e-Abi Shaybah, vol. 7, pp. 169, Hadees 1)

Dear Islamic brothers! Tremble with fear. On the Day of Judgement the Holy Quran will complain to Allah Almighty against those who oppose its commandments. Those who do not act upon the Halal and Haraam of the Holy Quran become deserving of the curse of the angels.

May Allah Almighty enable us to act upon the commandments of the Holy Quran, save us from the torment of the grave and the Hereafter, grant us wellbeing in this world and the Hereafter, make the Holy Quran a means of our salvation and grant us Divine pleasure due to the blessings of the Holy Quran.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In order to understand the Holy Quran properly and comprehending its commandments, make a habit of listening, or reading out to others or reading individually the translation and commentary from Tafseer “Sirat-ul-Jinaan” daily and earn abundant of reward. Let’s listen to some of the specialities of the Tafseer “Sirat-ul-Jinaan” .

Introduction of “Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan”

1. There are two translations for every Ayah in Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan . One is the translation of Quran, namely Kanz ul Iman of ‘Ala Hazrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ; and the second translation is with the name of Kanz ul ‘Irfan which is in simpler Urdu.

2. In Tafseer Sirat ul Jinaan, old and new Quranic commentaries and selected content from a huge number of books written on other Islamic sciences by authentic scholars, especially A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, has been presented in a simplified manner.

3. Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan is neither too long nor too short, in fact it is average sized.

4. A simple method has been adopted in Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan so that even a layman could also benefit from it.

5. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, social evils as well as their torments have also been mentioned for the reformation of deeds.

6. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, spiritual diseases have also been discussed in detail.

7. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, reformatory content regarding treating parents, relatives, orphans, neighbours, etc., nicely is also present.

8. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, beliefs and core affairs of Ahl-us-Sunnah have been explained with proofs.

You too make an intention that you will recite at least 3 Ayahs with translation and commentary from Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan daily. Moreover, you will not only act upon the teachings of the Holy Quran yourself but will also persuade other Islamic brothers too. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis-e-Tawqeet

O devotees of Ramadan! These are the sacred moments of blessed Ramadan and Muslims keep Fard Siyam in this sacred month. They offer Salah. Indeed, both these actions have a set time. In order to know these times, one requires a certain knowledge that is called “Tawqeet” . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is spreading call towards righteousness and Sunnahs all across the globe in around 107 departments. “Majlis-e-Tawqeet” is also one of those departments.

Tawqeet refers to the knowledge by the help of which, one can know the timings of all five Salahs, sunrise and sunset, Nisf-un-Nahaar (نِصْفُ النَّھَار) etc., for any place in the world. Moreover, correct Qiblah direction is also determined from it. Majlis-e-Tawqeet has gathered the timings of Salahs, sunset, sunrise and accurate Qiblah directions in a form of a map through the knowledge of Tawqeet. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ up to now, Majlis-e-Tawqeet has not only compiled “Awqat-us-Salah” [Salah timings] of numerous cities using the rules of Tawqeet but it has also introduced such a software with the collaboration of the “I.T. Majlis” of Dawat-e-Islami namely “Awqat-us-Salah” that is extremely useful in determining correct Salah timings on computers, mobiles and tablets, etc.

Therefore, through a computer (desktop application), Salah timings and correct Qiblah directions for approximately 2.7 million locations of the world can easily be found out. Whereas through the mobile application, same could be found out for approximately 10,000 locations. If you are facing any issue or have any suggestion regarding the timings, then you can contact Arakeen [members] and responsible Islamic brothers of this department through phone or following e-mail id (prayer@dawateislami.net) in the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding the recitation of the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s have the privilege to listen to a few Madani pearls of recitation of the Holy Quran. First listen to the following two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Recite the Holy Quran as it will come to intercede for its reciters on the Judgement Day. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 314, Hadees 1874)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The best worship of my Ummah is recitation of the Glorious Quran. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

3. The Holy Quran should be recited in an exceedingly elegant voice, and if somebody does not possess a pleasant voice, he should try to beautify his voice when reciting. However, it is impermissible to recite in such a tone that causes the improper utterance, missing or adding letters, like the way that singers do. Take utmost care in upholding the rules and regulations of recitation [Tajweed]. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 694)

4. It is Mustahab to perform Tilawat in the state of Wudu, facing the Qiblah, and whilst wearing good garment. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls regarding the recitation of the Holy Quran will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 23 May 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding the recitation of the Holy Quran

٭ It is Mustahab to recite Ta’awwuz ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰه ’ when beginning Tilawat, and it is Sunnah to recite Tasmiyah ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the start of a Surah, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

٭ Reciting the Holy Quran by looking at it is preferable than reciting it by heart. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 21)

٭ It is stated in a blessed Hadees that the person who recited the Holy Quran by looking at it, two thousand virtues will be written in his account and the one who recited verbally without looking at will get one thousand virtues written in his account. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, vol. 1, pp. 260, Raqm 2301)

٭ If somebody recites incorrectly, it is Wajib for the listener to correct him, provided that it does not create animosity or envy. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 498)

٭ When the Holy Quran is recited aloud, it is Fard on all attendees to listen to it provided they have congregated for the purpose of listening. Otherwise, it is sufficient if one of them listens, while others may carry out their activities. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 23, pp. 353)

٭ It is Haraam for everybody in a gathering to recite aloud. In gatherings of Isal-e-Sawab, usually everybody recites aloud – this is Haraam [strictly forbidden]. If a number of people recite, the ruling for them is to recite quietly. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 2, pp. 552)

٭ One should not try to complete the recitation of the Holy Quran in less than three days, instead try to complete it in at least three, seven or forty days so that the meanings and contexts of the recited Ayahs can be understood properly. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 238)

٭ One should recite the Holy Quran slowly and calmly, and properly by following the phonetics of the Arabic language. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 238)

٭ The best time for the recitation of the Holy Quran is the last ten days of Ramadan and the first ten days of Zul-Hijjah. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 239)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for every action to be completed in a good manner

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for “every action to be completed in a good manner” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

وَ اُفَوِّضُ اَمْرِیْۤ اِلَى اللّٰهِؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ بَصِیْرٌۢ بِالْعِبَادِ(۴۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I entrust my matters to Allah; indeed Allah sees bondsmen.

(Parah 24, Al-Mu’min, Ayah 44) (Faizan-e-Du’a, pp. 263)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

