اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Perils of Metaphorical (Romantic) Love

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the day and night of a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, seventy needs of the Hereafter and thirty needs related to the world and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel who will present this Salat to me as you receive presents; undoubtedly, my knowledge after my demise will remain the same as it is in my life.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, Hadees 22355)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں اُن پر سلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

On page 93 of the renowned book named ‘ Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil ’, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentioned a parable:

In the Bani Israel, there was a very pious man. One day, 3 local brothers came to him and informed him of their intention to travel on a long journey and that they wanted him to take care of their young sister until their return. The worshipper apologised because he was afraid that this would lead him to commit a sin, but the brothers insisted, so eventually he agreed. However, he advised them to make her stay in a nearby house instead of his home, they did as was told. The worshipper would leave some food outside his doorstep and she would take it and eat. A few days later, Satan put a satanic whisper into the worshipper’s heart and made him think, ‘She is only a young girl and has to go outside for her food, what if an evil person harmed her! I think it is best if I leave the food outside her house rather than my own, I will receive a lot of reward for this good intention.’ He then began leaving the food outside her door instead of his own. A few days later, Satan put another satanic whisper into his heart, ‘The poor girl sits there quietly all alone, what harm is there in giving her a bit of company with the good intention of reducing her loneliness! This is a good deed, you are a pious man, you can control your Nafs, your intention is good, and she is like your sister.’ He then began talking to her.

The young girl’s sweet voice began to arouse excitement in the worshipper’s heart. Satan tempted him further, until, they committed the sin of fornication. The girl even gave birth to a child. Then Satan began to frighten the worshipper, ‘If her brothers find out about the child you will be disgraced; if you want to save yourself from being humiliated, then kill the baby and bury it.’ Satan successfully convinced the worshipper. Then immediately Satan made another satanic whisper and made him think, ‘What if the girl tells her brothers? It is safer if you murder both of them.’ The worshipper brutally murdered both the girl and the baby and dumped them in a pit in that same house.

When the three brothers returned from their journey, the worshipper pretended to sympathise with them, ‘Your sister has died; come and recite Fatihah by her grave.’ He lied to them and showed them a grave in the cemetery telling them that it was their deceased sister’s grave. The grieving brothers recited Fatihah and left the cemetery. At night, Satan appeared in dreams of each of the brothers as a traveller and informed them about the worshipper’s ill deeds, he even pointed out where the bodies were buried. When all three brothers awoke, they told their dreams to each other.

They came to the place that was identified to them in their dreams and when they dug it up, they discovered the murdered bodies of their sister and her baby. The three brothers captured the worshipper. He confessed to his sins. The brothers lodged a complaint in the court of the king. The worshipper was dragged out of his worship-place and sentenced to be hanged. When he was brought to the prison, Satan appeared and said, ‘Do you r ecognise me! I am the Satan who caused you to fall into the temptation of a woman and led you to this final stage of humiliation, but do not worry I can save you, just do as I say.’ The worshipper was prepared to do anything to save his life. ‘I will do anything you say’, he said. Satan instructed, ‘Deny Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and become an unbeliever.’ The unfortunate worshipper replied, ‘I deny Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and become a non-unbeliever.’ Satan instantly disappeared and the unfortunate worshipper was executed. (Summarised from: Tilbees-e-Iblees, pp. 38-40)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Having narrated this parable, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه giving the mind-set of staying away from the Fitnah (temptation) of woman has said that the most dangerous weapon of Satan to destroy men, is ‘woman’. That unfortunate worshipper agreed to look after the young girl and was then stimulated by Satan to take food to her door, by giving Satan a little opportunity, Satan overpowered him, resulting in him denying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and dying a humiliating death.

Dear Islamic brothers! All of this resulted because of lust. The evil desire of lust not only turns a human into a beast but also urges him to commit extremely shameful acts, due to which a person gets disgraced and if he does not sincerely repent, he also becomes deserving of painful torment in the Hereafter.

Condemning the act of satisfying Nafsaani desires (i.e. bad desires of the Nafs) Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘Satisfying the lust for a single moment leads to long grief.’ (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer lis-Suyuti, pp. 173, Hadees 2887) Undoubtedly, observing a veil with strangers and non-Mahram relatives leads to goodness in both worlds. Informal relationships between men and women could lead to extremely dangerous consequences.

Remember! One must observe a veil from the daughter of his father’s elder brother, younger brother, the daughter of his mother’s brother, father’s sister and the daughter of his mother’s sister. All these relatives are called ‘cousins’ in English. To be alone with them, to become informal, to chat with them etc., may bring about extremely dangerous consequences. Likewise, remember! One should also observe a veil from his wife’s sister, brother’s wife, paternal uncle’s wife and maternal uncle’s wife. It is not permissible to meet them in seclusion and become informal with them either.

A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has said: One who trusts his Nafs, has trusted a big liar. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 454)

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ لَا يَخلُوَنَّ رَجَلٌ بِامۡرَاَ ةٍ اِلَّا كَانَ ثَالِثَهُمَا الشَّيۡطَانُ ’, i.e. When a man is alone with a strange woman, Satan must be the third one.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 4, pp. 67, Hadees 2172)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, the famous commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الْـمَنَّان has said: Whenever a man is alone with a strange woman, however pious they might be, even if they are together for a religious cause, Satan will most certainly activate evil between them and arouse their sensual emotions. There is a danger of them committing a sin!

Therefore, one must be very cautious of such seclusion. It is necessary to avoid the causes of evil. To avoid fever, cure the flu and cold.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 21)

‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has made the following comment about this blessed Hadees: Whenever a woman is alone with a strange man, this is a welcome opportunity for the devil. He fills their hearts with dirty evil thoughts, arouses their sensual emotions, and incites them both to become shameless and commit sin. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer Sharh Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 3, pp. 102, Taht-al-Hadees 2795)

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed, in order to stay safe from the traps of Satan and the curse of lust, it is extremely necessary for non-Mahram men and women to observe the veil (remain away from each other) and protect their eyes from each other, because the lust first of all creates the desire to be near to that person in the heart of a man and woman. After getting close to each other they start talking, then by getting closer they start chatting leading to flirting or informal talks, trapping them into an artificial love. They are now overpowered by one sided or two sided ‘love’ . If they do not express their feelings openly due to hesitations, then after becoming more familiar with each other they normally fall in love and then express it in an easy way and then this one-sided love turns into a two-sided love leading them to suffer great emotional loss with many sins being committed. Every sensible person can understand this.

Let’s listen to some excerpts from page 40 to 43 of the 616-page book named ‘ Call to Righteousness ’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه to remove the wrong idea about attributing unlawful love to Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام .

Commenting on the destruction of unlawful love, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: This kind of romance and love is so abnormal that it traps people and puts them in such a terrible condition that they cannot get out of it once they are caught. This evil practice is in full

swing nowadays and the lack of Islamic knowledge along with being very far from an I slamic environment are the major causes behind the epidemic of this sinful and unlawful love and it has brought about a flood of sins in our societies.

In the beginning, this love is one-sided, which develops into a two-sided love affair and then usually a storm of sins and disobedience erupts. These lovers then engage in shameless talks over the phone and even meet each other, exchange love letters and gifts, and secretly promise to marry each other. If their family members cause any obstruction, they sometimes elope, and the news of their elopement is published in papers, causing disgrace for their families. At times, they get married by a court, but sometimes they go beyond all moral bounds and مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ have children out of wedlock and dead foetuses are then found in rubbish dumps as a result of unlawful relationships. Furthermore, if they are unable to elope, then some commit suicide. These types of news are often published in the newspapers.

Dear Islamic brothers! These days, Muslims have drifted away from Islamic knowledge, falling into the deep abyss of ignorance. In order to cover up their filthy unlawful love, some lovers even dare to say that Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام was also in love with Zulaykha. (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid) This is absolutely wrong, and these unwise people who hold such evil views are completely mistaken. To make excuses about the evils of the Nafs by carelessly saying something inappropriate about a blessed Prophet under the influence of Satan may be extremely dangerous to one’s faith.

Remember! Even the slightest blasphemy of a Prophet is Kufr [unbelief]. Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام is a Prophet of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and every Prophet is Ma’soom [i.e. unable to commit any sin]. A Prophet can never do anything inappropriate. Here is verse 24 of Surah Yusuf with its translation from page 445 of the sacred Kanz-ul-Iman published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in part 12 of the Holy Quran:

وَ لَقَدۡ ہَمَّتۡ بِہٖ ۚ وَ ہَمَّ بِہَا لَوۡ لَاۤ اَنۡ رَّاٰ بُرۡہَانَ رَبِّہٖ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed the woman desired him; and he too would have inclined to her, if he would not have seen the proof of his Lord. (Part 12, Surah Yusuf, verse 24)

Commenting on the abovementioned verse, the famous commentator of the Glorious Quran, Sadr-ul-Afaadil ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام free from ill manners and shameful deeds, and has blessed them with good manners. Thus, they avoid every evil deed. According to a narration, ‘When Zulaykha tried to seduce Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, he saw his father Sayyiduna Ya’qoob عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام who had pressed his finger between his teeth, and was gesturing to Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام to stay away from her.’ (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 445)

The fact is that it was a one-sided love on the part of Zulaykha only, and Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام had not indulged in it even to the slightest degree. In verse 30 of Surah Yusuf, part 12, the saying of some Egyptian women has been quoted like this:

وَ قَالَ نِسۡوَۃٌ فِی الۡمَدِیۡنَۃِ امۡـرَاَتُ الۡعَـزِ یۡزِ تُرَاوِدُ فَتٰىہَا عَنۡ نَّفۡسِہٖ ۚ قَدۡ شَغَفَہَا حُبًّا ؕ اِنَّا لَنَرٰ ىہَا فِیۡ ضَلٰلٍ مُّبِیۡنٍ ﴿۳۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And some women of the city said, ‘The ruler’s wife is seeking to seduce her young boy; indeed his love has deepened in her heart; and we find her infatuated with love openly.’

(Part 12, Surah Yusuf, verse 30)

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی has stated, ‘Zulaykha had an inclination towards Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام abstained from her

despite having power. This blessed act of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام of preventing from her was greatly appreciated by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as it is mentioned in Glorious Quran.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 129)

This has made it as clear as day that the excuse made up from the incident of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام and Zulaykha by unwise lovers in favour of their sinful filthy love is contrary to the Holy Quran, and leads straight to unbelief in many cases. Only love on the part of Zulaykha has been mentioned in Surah Yusuf; it does not give even a hint of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام being involved in love towards her. Therefore, those who have the filthy idea that Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام was also involved in love should repent and renew their faith (Iman) by embracing Islam again. The Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have a very high status and are protected from sins, in fact they are unable to commit any sin.

مَحَبَّت غیر کی دل سے نکالو یَا رسولَ الله!

مجھے اپنا ہی دیوانہ بنا لو یَا رسولَ الله!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! None can deny that at present, mobile phones and the internet are playing an extremely important role in promoting many immoral and social evils along with unlawful love. Nowadays, just to satisfy their Nafsaani (inner) desires, immoral boys may pass their time by trying to get girls’ phone numbers or contact them through Facebook and sometimes girls take the first step, this results in them becoming familiar with each other in a short period of time and the unending affair of immodesty and unlawful love begins. Indeed, according to our needs, gradually surprising devices and gadgets have been invented and are greatly appreciated by the people of that age, but it is also a fact that until now, among the inventions, the

smartphone is the most amazing one which has shrunk the world placing it in the palm of our hands. Mobile phones are not only popular across the globe but they also play their role in almost every field of life to a certain extent. Therefore, today mobile phones have become part and parcel of our lives. Its need and importance can be judged by the fact that a large number of people have increased the use of mobile phones to such an extent that they cannot even imagine life without it; they use their mobile phones all the time, some silly people even continue to use it in the bathroom.

There is no doubt that where mobile phones have benefited humans a lot, it has also led humans to suffer significant loss and great difficulties. Is a knife a useful instrument or a dangerous weapon? It depends on how it is used. The same logic applies to technology. The greatest invention is those which affect the masses of people; and cell phones is of one of these great inventions. Cell phones have revolutionised human existence. This is possible only because they are getting cheaper and cheaper by the day. If it is used properly for permissible things, then it has lots of advantages. If the same phone is used for righteous acts when necessary, then it may be an act of receiving reward as well. It is not a surprising thing to use mobile phones for righteous acts, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Islamic brothers, preachers and responsible Islamic brothers associated with Dawat-e-Islami are busy presenting the call towards righteousness and propagating the blessed Sunnah via the phones as well. For the Madani donations of Madaris-ul-Madinah of Dawat-e-Islami telethon (a program to collect Madani donations) was held some time ago, a large number of Islamic brothers made their efforts through mobile phones and the internet for the progress of the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that campaign of collecting Madani donations continued was quite successful. Therefore, if it is used correctly, it is good and has many advantages and if it is misused, it is bad and has many disadvantages.

Today millions of people are using mobile phones. Some of them use it due to a need but many use it as a fashion, for sport and entertainment, games,

as a habit or for sinful activities in which unfortunately Muslims are also included. Such people do not take care of permissible and impermissible acts. A Muslim should perform each and every act according to the Shari’ah, for example if it is not used in impermissible and sinful activities, but only used in useless things, even then it should be avoided, because useless activities in addition to wasting our time, affects the pleasure and beauty of our Islam.

The Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مِنۡ حُسۡنِ اِسۡلَامِ الۡمَرۡءِ تَرۡكُهُ مَا لَا يَعۡنِيۡهِ ’ To abandon useless and purposeless activities is one of the beauties of Islam.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 4, pp. 142, Hadees 2324)

There is no doubt that nowadays mobile phones have more disadvantages and disasters than advantages. Seeing the harm and disadvantages of mobiles phones, one gets overwhelmed with sorrow and sadness. Due to the mobile phone, we have lost our peace of mind and comfort, modesty and respect. Virtuous and honourable women are also gradually losing their modesty. The respect of the son of Nabi Adam and the chastity of Sayyidah Hawwa’s daughter is in danger; their nobility and morality, culture and way of living have been destroyed; they have become extravagant. Due to the excessive misuse of mobile phones, we have lost the value and importance of time and a new era of wasting time has begun. The act of staying awake unnecessarily at night has risen due to idle gossip through mobile phones late at night. The disease of unlawful love has grown alarmingly; impermissible attachment and love have ruined the lives of the youth; due to constantly staying awake at night, the body has become completely deprived of proper rest, negatively affecting the health; the tendency to listen to songs and music and to watch films and dramas have increased; every house has an entertainment centre or several such facilities, the hurdles which were in the way of watching extremely shameful film scenes have been removed; the youth have started to become old before their time; they have lost interest in books and devotion to their work; idleness and laziness have become widespread and humans have become lazy; the act of secretly peeping at others has increased

a lot; the path to immodesty has become wide and to commit fornication is extremely easy; the tunes of music set in mobile phones and the useless words of songs have ruined the sacredness and honour of Masajid. In the pleasant environment of the Masjid, the attention and joy of those who do Zikr and Azkaar, recite the Holy Quran and deliver and listen to Sunnah- inspiring Bayans are affected, even due to our own mobile phones or someone else’s, it has become difficult to concentrate in Salah with deep humility and fear.

فریاد ہے اے کشتیِ اُمّت کے نگہباں بیڑا یہ تباہی کے قریب آن لگا ہے

دیکھے ہیں یہ دن اپنی ہی غفلت کی بدولت سچ ہے کہ بُرے کام کا انجام بُرا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Only a few evils of mobile phones have been mentioned here. Some evils lead to other evils. For instance, take the example of songs and music as the trend of listening to songs and music is rapidly increasing due to mobile phones, even now مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this sin has become so easy through mobile phones that not only people fill their ears with Haraam by listening to songs and music but also they fill their eyes with Haraam by watching shameful scenes without any restrictions. Listening to songs and music is itself a collection of many evils that creates hypocrisy in the heart, displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, reduces honour and increases lust.

The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Songs and ‘Lahw’ (i.e. sport and entertainments) grow hypocrisy in the heart as water grows vegetation.

(Firdaus-ul-Akhb a r, vol. 2, Hadees 4204, pp. 101)

Sayyiduna Dahhaak رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated: Songs spoil the heart and displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tafseerat-e-Ahmadiyyah, part 21, Luqman, Taht-al-Ayah: 6, pp. 603)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Protect yourself from music, because it excites the feelings of lust, destroys honour, and it is like wine, containing the effectiveness of intoxication.

(Ad-Dur-ul-Mansoor, part 21, Luqman, Taht-al-Ayah: 6, vol. 6, pp. 506)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the abovementioned narration it is a matter of serious concern for those who call songs and music food for the soul as music is not food for soul but it is a source of destruction of the heart and soul. It is extremely beneficial to study the 28-page booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه named ‘ The Devastations of Music ’ and ‘ 35 Blasphemous Couplets of Songs ’ to know the moral and Shar’i disadvantages of songs and music and ways to stay safe from them. In this booklet, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned an extremely thought-provoking parable of a family’s destruction that had a deep longing for songs and music. It also contains social and Shar’i disadvantages of listening to songs and music and the torments in the Hereafter, in the light of the Quran and Hadees, and the sayings of the holy saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Obtain this booklet today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it yourself and persuade other Islamic brothers to do so as well. This booklet can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

According to a new medical research done, due to the mobile phones, mental and psychological patients are constantly increasing. In addition to affecting us physically with diseases, mobile phones have also affected our souls and minds. A person who is suffering from a bodily illness is not so much a matter of concern, as when he suffers from a spiritual, psychological and mental illness. Since the spiritual illness leads a person to being rude and immoral and

illness of the mind leads him to a strange struggle and a state of restlessness, leaving a dark mark on his bright future. A person makes his utmost efforts to make his bright future and also makes his efforts to improve his thoughts and deeds, but his mental illness become an obstacle in his way.

Due to mobile phones, the diseases of blood pressure, heart-attack and irritability are rapidly increasing more than before. Irritability is very harmful for a home environment. When the husband and wife have quarrels, the whole family system is disrupted. Due to frustration and short-temperedness, caused by a mobile phone, people start abusing their relatives and others and sometimes even get into fights. In short, the drama that is created because of the mobile phones, shows different types of scenes.

آگے آگے دیکھئے ہوتا ہے کیا!

Listen to an excerpt of a newspaper about the depression, frustration and family fights, as a result of the mobile phone. Make an intention to protect yourself from its destruction, to reduce its use and to get rid of its unnecessary use:

According to a latest research, those who use mobile phones, fall prey to depression. The number of such people is comparatively more than those who use mobile phones rarely or do not use it at all. Those, who are habitual of making calls, take the tension of their offices to their homes which become the cause of irritation for women at home. The husband who talks to someone about his office work on the mobile phone in his home and repeatedly receives calls, his wife and children both get irritated and continue grumbling.

According to a sociologist, the examples of adverse effects of using a mobile phone by men or women on their domestic life can be found commonly. According to experts, the excessive use of mobile phones causes family tension, makes people constantly suffer from frustration besides depression and also indicates that the upcoming generation will fail to understand their domestic and outside responsibilities and will fall prey to misfortunes and afflictions in their daily life.

Today, the cheaper internet services are available on mobile phones than computers, even the kids are entertaining and enjoying themselves by using mobiles phones equipped with all Internet services and other facilities such as apps, online games etc. There was a time when the effects of TV and cinema were supposed to be highly destructive and alarming and television was declared to be the most harmful object for health, but today the mobile and internet are becoming excessively harmful and ruining the health and character of people. Mobile and internet have wreaked havoc amongst humans or in other words moral values and religious norms have been badly trampled by mobiles and the internet.

According to a report, India is the third largest country to have approximately 150 million and 1,600000 internet users and so far as mobile users, India is the second largest country in this regard to have approximately 860000000 and 8700000. Except the mature class, a large number of underage girls and boys are using every kind of mobile phone, and this mobile phone has emerged as the major source of rapidly growing unlawful love. TV is an open secret but mobile phones are a hidden secret veiling various kinds of serious threats. Therefore, parents should train their children wisely and tactfully along with keeping an eye on their activities. Especially underage children must be kept away from this menace and epidemic of mobiles and internet use, otherwise, they may fall into the flood of sins and how good it is if you associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami along with your children. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is paying full attention to the character building and moral-values according to the Glorious Quran and Sunnah.

Dear Islamic brothers! A famous monthly magazine illustrates the serious harms of mobile phones from a medical point of view and according to the head of the World Health Organisation, the parents of those children have been given serious warnings who spend most of their time while using mobile phones for long hours chatting but are unaware of the serious threats and harms of these mobile phones to their health. Some tests have been reviewed in this regard and it has been learnt that cell phones emit a lot of electromagnetic waves, where cell phones are used widely which is extremely harmful to the younger children.

With regard to the destruction of mobile phones, a summary of an admonitory piece of writing published in a newspaper on 3 rd March, 2014 is worth listening to. The title of the feature is ‘ Be alert! The mobile phone is causing a fire in each and every house ’. As rapidly mobile phones have become an inevitable part of human life; no one could enter his life with the same pace and it is the very object propagating lies and cheating. A person may be somewhere else but will let others know that he is in a different location; by doing this, he knows no bounds as if he has performed any righteous act; though lying without any valid Islamic reason is not only worth condemning but the Glorious Quran and blessed Hadees have commanded us to refrain from this curse. Therefore, the Glorious Quran says:

وَ اجۡتَنِبُوۡا قَوۡ لَ الزُّ وۡرِ ﴿ۙ۳۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And avoid false speech.

(Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, verse 30)

The most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: It is obligatory for you to tell the truth, for truth leads to virtue and virtue leads to Heaven, and the man who continues to speak the truth and endeavours to tell the truth is eventually recorded as truthful by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and beware of telling a lie, for telling of a lie leads to obscenity and obscenity leads to the Hell-fire, and the person who continues speaking lies and endeavours to tell a lie is recorded as a liar by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

آہ طُغیانیاں گناہوں کی پار نیّا مِری لگا یا ربّ

نفس و شیطاں ہوگئے غالب ان کے چُنگل سے تُو چُھڑا یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Similarly, arguments between wife and husband and being suspicious of each other are also due largely to mobile phones; many such matters have been reported. Email and mobile phones have completely weakened the personal and public life of people and have made this civilized world fall into a great trouble.

More accidents are likely caused by cell phone use, despite the strict instruction given by the law and order department, 55% of people remain busy using their mobiles whilst driving and listening to songs and chatting etc. As well as such incidents have been reported in which drivers do not hear the hooters of vehicles approaching from behind and they become victims of fatal accidents. The mobile phone can be a great blessing, but on the other hand it is a curse as well; so, use it with great care.

Currently, scientists from Finland have made research and disclosed that electromagnetic signals from cell phones can change brainwaves. Experts suggest that there is a way to refrain from its threat, that is to use it to the bare minimum when needed for the right purpose. Cell phones prove to be a potential cancer-causing risk and other such serious diseases. It should not be kept in the front pocket near the heart; it will pose negative effects upon the heart. Talking on the phone longer than one’s need leaves harmful effects on the ear but also the brain cannot escape from its dangerous rays, it especially affects bringing up children; furthermore, excessive use of mobile phones poses a threat to the brain.

Yes! One of the most risky aspects of mobile phones is that it has a negative impact on the health and growth of the foetus in the womb of a pregnant woman. Mobile phones work by electrical power as it is charged by electricity first filling it with electric waves which may pose a hazard, it is for this reason that doctors strongly forbid keeping it in the front pocket near the heart because it is likely to pose a heart disease. Today, these electromagnetic waves are disabling and paralysing the health of foetus’ in the womb of pregnant women. Therefore, pregnant women must not use it excessively during the pregnancy period; use it as per need and keep it away; it should not be placed near your pillow. According to modern research revealed, a foetus in the womb listens to its mother and surroundings in the last 3 or 4

weeks. In this modern age, mothers give up obligatory acts, Salah, fasts and other invocations under the excuse of pregnancy and keep themselves busy in futile activities and aimless things such as listening to songs, watching movies and using phones excessively. But they have no idea of these evil activities and impacts of futile talking and watching movies could be very dangerous for their children. Let’s listen to an incredible fact as to how an excellent habit exerts significant effect upon a foetus in the womb of the mother.

The great eminence and glory of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can be understood from this incident that when the tradition of ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ took place when he was 5 years old, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited until the 18 part of the Glorious Quran by memory and related that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had memorised these 18 parts when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in the womb of his blessed mother.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Ponder over this! A pious mother has a great effect on the foetus in her womb. It has become obvious that those deeds performed during the days of pregnancy have a deep impact on the personality of a child, therefore, during pregnancy, Islamic sisters should worship as much as possible, recite the Holy Quran, recite Zikr-o-Durood abundantly, constantly perform good deeds, eat only Halal food so that the formation of the child’s body is from a Halal source, give charity abundantly, avoid sins like lies, backbiting, tale-telling etc., make a routine of eating, drinking, dressing, sleeping etc. according to the Sunnah. None can deny the fact that constant usage of a mobile during domestic chores places unnecessary pressure on the mind even sometimes little kids experience severe loss due to this. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keep all of us safe and grant us the privilege to lead a life

according to the commands of the Holy Quran and Blessed Ahadees and

Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

مِٹا دے ساری خطائیں مِری مٹا یا رب ّ بنا دے نیک بنا نیک دے بنا یا ربّ

رِہائی مجھ کو مِلے کاش نفس و شیطاں سے تِرے حبیب کا دیتا ہوں واسطہ یا ربّ

گناہ بے عدد اور جُرم بھی ہیں لا تعداد مُعاف کر دے نہ سہہ پاؤں گا سزا یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Question: If somebody falls in love, and commits sins such as evil glances etc., but there is no possibility to get married, then how can one get rid of this?

Answer: This is certainly a situation which requires a lot of patience. One must repent sincerely from whatever sins were committed by him or her in the past and humbly plead to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for freedom from this sinful love affair. Avoid evil glances, seeing any picture or receiving any gift or anything else that could make one think of the other person. He should immediately get rid of all these evil activities. He should not answer phone calls from the other person, or read letters, and totally avoid even thinking about that unlawful love as much as possible and instantly occupy himself in righteous deeds. Increase the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart and seek help from the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

مَحَبَّت غیر کی دل سے نکالو یَا رسولَ الله!

مجھے اپنا ہی دیوانہ بنا لو یَا رسولَ الله!

Question: Please tell us a Wazifah [spiritual remedy] to attain relief from a love affair?

Answer: As well as acting upon the Madani pearls given at the beginning of the previous answer, one can also recite the following Wazifah:

بِسۡمِ اللّٰہِ الرَّ حۡمٰنِ الرَّ حِیۡمِ

لَاۤ اِ لٰہَ اِ لَّاۤ اَنۡتَ سُبۡحٰنَکَ ٭ۖ اِنِّیۡ کُنۡتُ مِنَ ا لظّٰلِمِیۡنَ ﴿ۚۖ۸۷﴾

اَللّٰہُ نُوۡ رُ ا لسَّمٰوٰ تِ وَ الۡاَرۡضِ ؕ لَا تَاۡخُذُ ہٗ سِنَۃٌ وَّ لَا نَوۡ مٌ ؕ

Recite this thrice in the state of Wudu, (with Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once before and after), then blow on some water and drink it. Continue this action for 40 days.

Awraad-o-Wazaaif

§ یَا غَفَّارُ: Whoever recites this regularly, will be freed from the evil desires of the Nafs [lower being] اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ یَا خَبِیْرُ: Whoever is overpowered by his Nafs-e-Ammaarah [immoral inner self] should recite this every day; he will get rid of this problem اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ یَا عَفُوُّ: Whoever has committed many sins should recite this pure name in abundance, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive all of his sins out of His Bounty, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard about the destruction of unlawful love and the negative impact of mobile phones and the internet.

§ Certainly, this kind of evil and unlawful love is a cause of trapping people into evil desires and lifelong repentance.

§ In order to refrain from this kind of evil love and desires, men should avoid talking and meeting women in seclusion who are non-Mahram for them according to the Shari’ah, as it can lead to many sins.

§ It is of great importance for men to refrain from contacting non-Mahram women via phones, internet, Whatsapp or SMS otherwise, this evil action can completely ruin their lives.

§ Let your Du’a be accepted through a lot of weeping over past sinful deeds and humble begging and at the end of your Du’a after having asked for everything good, conclude it with Salat-‘Alan-Nabi.

§ In order save yourselves from these evil desires, refrain from the misuse of Internet and mobile phones.

§ Treat yourselves with spiritual cures to saving yourselves.

§ Engage yourselves in the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ To build a good character, associate yourselves with righteous company and the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

§ Travel with Madani Qafilahs and practice upon the Madani In’amaat. Immediately prepare yourselves for a 12 month Madani Qafilah. Travel in a 26 month or 12 month Madani Qafilah otherwise at least receive the privilege to travel in a 12-day character building course and travel in a 3-day Madani Qafilah every month.

آئیں نہ مجھے وسوسے اور گندے خیالات

دے ذِہن کا اور دِل کا خدا قفلِ مدینہ

رفتار کا گُفتار کا کِردار کا دے دے

ہر عضو کا دے مجھ کو خدا قفلِ مدینہ

دوزخ کی کہاں تاب ہے کمزور بدن میں

ہر عضو کا عطا ر لگا قفلِ مدینہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُلـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A Majlis (Department) of Dawat-e-Islami namely ‘Majlis Maktubat & Ta’wizat-e-Attariyyah’ is busy providing free spiritual treatments to the troubled Muslims in the form of Ta’wizat permitted by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Furthermore, Istikharah [1] is also conducted, benefitting thousands of Muslims daily. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Without exaggeration, this Majlis has delivered millions of Ta’wizat and consoling, condoling and comforting letters to the Muslims. Furthermore, according to a survey, (made on 17-04-2014) the number of Ta’wizat stalls (for Islamic brothers) set up daily in and out of Pakistan is more than 680 and 180 respectively. Monthly, almost 250,000 patients are being benefitted by this Majlis. Almost more than 70,000 Maktubat-e-‘Attariyyah (including the ones delivered by post and email) are dispatched monthly. Similarly, almost more than 6 million Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah and Wazaaif are given yearly.

By the blessings of the stalls of Ta’wizat-e-‘A tt a riyyah, almost more than 100 Madani Qafilahs (for 3 days) travel monthly and almost ten to eleven thousand new Islamic brothers attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Likewise, more than 26,000 people are initiated into the spiritual order of Silsilah ‘Aaliyyah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Attariyyah monthly. The seekers of Ta’wizat should attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ held in their own city and get Ta’wizat from the stalls set up in the Ijtima’. There are several Madani parables of Ta’wizat-e-A tt ariyyah (where people are relieved from their problems).

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, Muslims are living in a terrible condition due to the flood of unlawful relationships and unlawful love which is sweeping everyone away. In such a shocking situation, the global & non-political movement for propagating the Holy Quran and Sunnah is no less than a great blessing. Therefore, in order to refrain from ethical, moral and social evils, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and participate in one of the 12 weekly Madani activities. ‘I’tikaf on a holyday’ is also one of the 12 weekly Madani activities. The main and basic objective of this Madani activity is to enliven the Masajid by calling people towards righteousness through carrying out outdoor Dars, inviting people towards Salah by visiting shops and houses, persuading people to learn Salah, Sunnah and Islamic etiquettes as well as starting Dawat-e-Islami activities or further strengthening the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The blessed Ahadees state the virtues and excellences of enlivening the Masajid. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Undoubtedly, those who enliven the houses of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are (truly) Allah-loving (individuals). (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 58, Hadees 2502)

2. Whoever loves the Masjid, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him His beloved.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 400, Hadees 6383)

3. When any bondsman makes a Masjid an abode for performing Salah and Zikr, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ shows mercy upon him just as the family of one who is absent feels happy when he returns to them.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 438, Hadees 800)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of the whole month I’tikaf in Ramadan-ul-Mubarak or the last 10-days I’tikaf in Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, a surprising Madani revolution takes place in the lives of many people and they manage to save their lives from the evils and epidemics of unlawful love and other such sinful activities. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable in this regard:

Here is a Madani parable showing how a Madani revolution took place in the life of an Islamic brother from Maleer area of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi). He has stated: Unfortunately, I had fallen in love with a girl, which had driven me into the dark cave of sins. One day, I heard that she had been married to someone else. This news made my life a living Hell. Eventually, like thousands of other unsuccessful lovers playing into Satan’s hands, I also became an addict of drugs, wine, opium and heroin. There would hardly be any intoxicant I had not taken, wrongly assuming it to be a means of seeking comfort.

Extremely depressed and frustrated, I attempted suicide many times. To kill myself, I drank chemical, petrol and even acid but my death had not arrived yet. How great is the Divine kindness! Despite my countless sins, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ did not close the door of mercy for me. How I was blessed is that I once met a lover of the Beloved Rasool who was associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. His politeness and courtesy gave me a great passion to live. On 29 Sha’b a n-ul-Mu’azzam, 1427 AH (2006), through the blessings of his individual efforts, I had the privilege of attending Faizan-e-Madinah, the Aalami Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami. I was amazed to see the spiritual atmosphere there. Seeing the Islamic brothers wearing green turbans, I was very delighted and my faith was refreshed.

I attended the 30-day collective I’tikaf held in the month of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak in 1427 AH. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I, a sinful person, was blessed with keeping fasts in Ramadan-ul-Mubarak. Through the blessings of the Madani environment, I got rid of the craze for love and filthy thoughts. I adorned my face with a beard, my head with a turban and body with a Sunnah-conforming clothing. I also became regular in offering the five daily Salahs. At the time of writing

this account, I am taking part in Madani activities trying to reform myself and the people of the entire world.

عطائے حبیبِ خُدا مَدَنی ماحول ہے فَیضانِ غَوث و رضا مَدَنی ماحول

بَفَیضانِ احمد رضا اِن شَآءَ الله یہ پُھولے پھلے گا سَدا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

§ On page 288 of the first volume of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘The honourable scholars say that whoever uses the Miswak regularly, will be blessed with the good fortune of reciting the Kalimah (fundamental article of faith) at the time of death, and whoever consumes opium will not be able to recite the Kalimah at the time of death.’

§ It is narrated from Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا that there are 10 qualities in the Miswak: It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, eliminates phlegm, eliminates bad smells of the

§ mouth, it is in accordance with the Sunnah, the angels become happy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased, it increases good deeds and cures the stomach. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

§ Miswak should be from Zaytoon, or Neem, or similar trees/plants having a bitter taste.

§ Thickness of the Miswak should be equal to the little finger.

§ Miswak should not be longer than one’s hand span as Satan sits on it.

§ The strands of the Miswak should be soft; otherwise, they might cause spaces between the teeth and gums.

§ If a Miswak is fresh then it is excellent; otherwise soak it in a glass of water until it becomes soft.

§ Trim the strands of the Miswak every day as they are beneficial only as long as they have some bitterness.

§ Brush your teeth horizontally with the Miswak.

§ Always brush your teeth with a Miswak in three cycles.

§ And rinse it after each cycle.

§ Hold the Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains beneath it and the middle three fingers remain over it while the thumb is also beneath pointing upwards (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

§ First brush (with Miswak) the top right row of the teeth then top left row. Then clean the bottom right row and then the bottom left row of the teeth.

§ Using the Miswak by gripping it in the form of a closed fist poses the risk of piles.

§ Miswak is a pre-Wudu Sunnah but if one has foul breath, using the Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

§ Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands as it is used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

