Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Obedience to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ صَلَّی عَلَیَّ فِیْ یَوْمٍ اَلْفَ مَرَّۃٍ لَمْ یَمُتْ حَتَّی یَرٰی مَقْعَدَہُ مِنَ الْجَنَّۃِ ’ Whoever recites Salat upon me a thousand times a day, he will not die until he sees his abode in Heaven. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 326, Hadees 2590)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1.Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1.Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2.Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in a reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3.I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4.If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5.When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6.After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7.During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8.Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9.Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember, the aim of our life is to act upon and to obey the commandments declared by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is Fard for every Muslim to act upon and to obey the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This is because our success in the world as well as in the Hereafter depends upon obeying them. We will listen about the same important Madani pearls during the Sunnah-inspiring Bayan in Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Ijtima’.

Did not pick up the gold ring?

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a person wearing a gold ring. Removing that ring, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم threw it away and said, ‘Does anyone among you want to keep a red-hot coal of fire in his hand?’ After the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم left, people said to that person, ‘Pick up your ring and benefit from it (by selling it).’ He replied, ‘No! When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has thrown it away, then by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will never pick it up.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 123, Hadees 4358)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you seen how obedient the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Had that companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wanted, he could have picked up the ring and used it; but his devout passion for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not agree to the fact that something that was disliked by the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and was thrown away by him should be picked up again.

Dear Islamic sisters! Being obedient means obeying orders, obeying someone. Indeed, every Muslim should be obedient to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while following in the footsteps of the blessed companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . We shall refrain from the things that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us from and always perform those activities that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded us to perform; because obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is Wajib (compulsory) upon the Muslims. It is stated in Ayah 1 of Surah Al-Anfaal, part 9:

وَ اَطِیْعُوا اللّٰهَ وَ رَسُوْلَهٗۤ اِنْ كُنْتُمْ مُّؤْمِنِیْنَ(۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And obey Allah and the Messenger; if you believe. (Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 1)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The difference between the obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is obeyed only in His commandments, not in His acts, but the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be obeyed in three things:

1.The acts which were performed by him.

2.In his mentioned blessed sayings and

3.the act which was performed in front of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not forbid it.

That is to say, whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, we must agree to it; whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed himself should also be followed and whatever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw someone do but did not forbid him from it, should also be followed.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: It should not be derived from the commandment of obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not obeyed, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will suffer a loss; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has fulfilled his glorious duty of matchless preaching with the greatest perfection, now the consequences for not following or not obeying the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be upon you.

(Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 66; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded humans to obey Him and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for living their lives and attaining success in this world and the Hereafter. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also given them the choice that by

acting upon His commandments, they may enjoy the everlasting blessings of Paradise or by committing His disobedience, they may become deserving of the Hell. Therefore, to attain success in this world and in the Hereafter, we should adopt the clean and pure blessed character of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which is better for us because the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best model of practice for us. Therefore, it is stated in Ayah 21 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 21:

لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِیْ رَسُوْلِ اللّٰهِ اُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed for you, following the Messenger of Allah is best. (Part 21, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 21)

In the Tafseer book Noor-ul-‘Irfan, regarding this blessed Ayah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: We came to know that the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a blessed role model for all the humans, leaving no field of life and it could also mean that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the blessed life of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the model of His Power. A craftsman applies all his skills on the sample. It has become obvious to us that a successful life is the one which is spent following his footsteps. If we live, die, sleep and awaken by acting upon the guiding principles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then all these acts will become the acts of worship. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 671)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We have come to know that the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the role model for us. Therefore, as a Muslim and a true slave, it is compulsory for us to obey and follow the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in all matters and live our lives by strictly acting upon the blessed Sunnah of the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, as this is the only source of our salvation. In this regard, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. مَنۡ اَطَاعَنِيۡ دَخَلَ الۡجَنَّةَ وَمَنۡ عَصَانِيۡ فَقَدۡ اَبٰي: i.e. One who obeyed my commandment, entered Paradise and the one who disobeyed me has become the one who denies. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 499, Hadees7280)

2.The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: None amongst you can become a perfect believer until his desire becomes subservient to what I have brought. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 154, Hadees 167)

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, changing yourself (internally and apparently) according to Islam while obeying the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم holds numerous benefits. Therefore, we should live our lives by obeying and acting upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after carefully studying the blessed sayings, acts, manners and blessed biography of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would try to act upon every Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even the things that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not command them to do, those were also followed by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

Would smile while talking

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Darda رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that whenever Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would speak, he would smile. I humbly said, ‘Leave this habit, otherwise people will start thinking of you as insane.’ Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said, ‘Whenever I saw or heard the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم speaking, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smile.’ (Hence with the intention of acting upon this Sunnah, I also do so.) (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 171, Hadees 21791)

پتلی پتلی گُلِ قُدس کی پتیاں اُن لبوں کی نزاکت پہ لاکھوں سلام

جس کی تسکیں سے روتے ہوئے ہنس پڑیں اس تبسُّم کی عادت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Choice of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is my choice

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that a tailor invited the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, (Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ says): I also joined the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The tailor placed Roti (bread) and curry of the blessed gourd and meat before the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I saw the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم eating the blessed gourd from the pot after searching for it (after relating this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said while mentioning his own practice): ‘ فَلَمۡ اَزَلۡ اُحِبُّ الدُّبَّاءَ مِنۡ يَوۡمِئِذٍ ’, i.e. since that day, I like the blessed gourd. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 17, Hadees 2092)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What great passion the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and what great yearning they had to adopt every blessed practice of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Look at the state of their devotional love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that whatever Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would like, they would also make it a part of their liking too. So what would be the state of obedience upon the matters that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would command for? In this relation, let’s listen to a few beautiful parables about the obedience of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah’s practice upon the blessed saying of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Once a beggar came to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave him a piece of Roti. Then a well-dressed person came, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave him food after having him seated. People asked the reason for the different treatments. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَنۡزِلُو النَّاسَ مَنَازِلَهُمۡ ’, treat every person according to his status. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 343, Hadees 4842)

Types of hospitality and its requirements

Dear Islamic sisters! From this action of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, we have come to know that hospitality to

people and their respect and reverence should be shown according to their status and rank. Every guest should be treated according to her status. Some guests stay for only an hour or two and leave after having tea etc., and for some guests, special arrangements for meal have to be made; there are some guests whom we invite ourselves to the wedding ceremonies, ‘Aqeeqahs, etc., in which equal arrangements for sitting and serving food without differentiating between poor and rich should be made. It shall not be the case that the rich and affluent people enjoy very luxurious meals in an awe-inspiring manner whereas poor and middle-class people are served with ordinary food. This shall not be done at all as it hurts the feelings of Muslims.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Worse food is the food of that Valimah in which rich people are invited leaving the poor people out. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 455, Hadees 5177) Some guests are sisters, brothers or close relatives who come to stay for a few days, they should also be provided with hospitality.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The one who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Day of Judgement should respect and revere the guest; one day and night is his Jaa`eezah (i.e. he should provide him with warm hospitality, get a very formal meal cooked for him according to his ability) and hospitality is for three days (i.e. after one day, whatever is present at home should be offered) and after three days, it is Sadaqah. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 136, Hadees 6135)

Regarding taking care of the status of people, this fact should also be kept in mind that if the guest is an honourable person, then she should be provided with hospitality according to her glory and greatness. We shall treat guests according to their ranks and treat every Muslim well because due to the blessings of treating Muslims well, not only affection develops among one another, but it also gives goodness of both the worlds besides developing the passion for acting upon the Sunnah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The way blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم loved the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would act upon the blessed sayings of the Holy

Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم wholeheartedly, similarly, the blessed Sahabiyyat رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ also had full passion and determination to obey the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They would also definitely act upon the blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out of his love.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s critical age, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a very great blessing. You also stay associated with this Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will get the abundant goodness of the world and the Hereafter. Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Islamic sisters in which Islamic sisters teach mature Islamic sisters Holy Quran, Salah, Du’as and rulings related to Islamic sisters etc., فیِ ْسَبِیْلِ اللہ (free of cost) in their homes collectively. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat Online, Islamic sisters teach the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation to Islamic sisters via the internet and edify them according to the Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, more or less in 65 countries, students (male and female) are acquiring the education of the Holy Quran through the internet.

“ Madrasa-tul-Madinah ”, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Another great source of refraining from sins and acting upon the commandments of Shar’iah is to associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Arrange at least one Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) in one Zeli Halaqah. The target is to have at least 12 Islamic sisters for studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah. (Duration: maximum 1 hour and 12 minutes). It can be arranged any time between morning 8 and the Azan of ‘Asr (at a purdah-observing place). Teach them the method of giving Ghusl, making Wudu, offering Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as, Shar’i rulings on women along with the

correct recitation of the Holy Quran by reading out from the book namely ‘Islami Behno ki Namaz’ (Salah for Islamic Sisters), published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Arrange Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) as per the Madani pearls.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one has the privilege of reciting the whole Glorious Quran correctly.

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat is a great source of learning necessary rulings of Salah, Wudu, Ghusl etc.

٭ Due to the blessings of joining Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one attains good company.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one attains the privilege of studying and teaching the Holy Quran.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one attains the treasure of the Islamic knowledge.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one attains the privilege of acting upon the Madani In’amaat.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, one gets the opportunity to adopt a good character.

I came out from a sandpit of sins

Dear Islamic sisters! By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, prayers made from the bottom of the heart are answered, entreaties are granted, and wishes are fulfilled. This is a summary of an Islamic sister’s statement from Punjab (Pakistan): Before joining Dawat-e-Islami’s fragrant Madani environment, I was very badly stuck in the sandpit of sins. Although my heart despised sins I saw no way to abstain from them. I had absolutely no religious knowledge. I would often pray, ‘O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I want to be a good person, make me a better person.’ At long last, my prayers were answered and one day I heard the good news of ‘a Dawat-e- Islami Sunnah-inspiring Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’ being held on Sunday 12 th August 2001 at so-and-so place.’

I was already thirsty, so I began waiting eagerly for the announced event. Finally, the day arrived and I avidly attended the Islamic sisters’ Ijtima’. Hearing the recitation of the Quran and the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I felt peace and pleasure in my heart. When the female preacher of Dawat-e-Islami started the Sunnah-inspiring speech, I listened to it attentively. By the end of the speech, my face was dripping with tears. Then the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ was announced which I made a firm intention to attend.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of regularly attending the weekly Ijtima’, I was rescued from the sandpit of sins. Today, I am trying to promote the call to righteousness amongst Islamic sisters as a responsible person for Madani activities in our locality.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Get married

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had such a passion for the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they would follow every command of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Therefore, Sayyiduna Rabee’ah Aslami رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that I had the privilege of serving the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One day, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘O Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I do not want to get married because firstly, I do not have sufficient wealth and means to fulfil the needs of a woman and secondly, I do not like the fact that anything takes me away from you.’

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم avoided me and I continued to serve him. After some time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said again, ‘Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I do not want to get

married as firstly, I do not have sufficient wealth and means to fulfil the needs of a woman and secondly, I do not like the fact that anything takes me away from you.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم avoided me, but then I thought that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knows better than me as to what is better for me in this world and the Hereafter. Now if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم says this to me, I will say, ok, Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, command me whatever you like.

Therefore, when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said for the third time, ‘Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Why not.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, naming a tribe of the Ansaar, told me to go to them and say to them that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has sent me to get me married with so-and-so woman. Therefore, I went and conveyed the message of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to them. They gave me a warm welcome and started saying, ‘The bearer of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should not return without carrying out his task.’ Then they performed my Nikah with that woman, treated me with extreme kindness and did not ask me for any proof either. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 5, pp. 569, Hadees 16577)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you seen the passion of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they did not even ask for any proof in the very sensitive matter like marriage and only upon hearing the blessed message of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they married their daughter to Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . From this parable, we derive the Madani pearl that whoever we get our children married to should be a person who offers Salah, observes Siyam, is pious and ascetic and practices the Sunnah, irrespective of being poor. But Alas! In our society, only beauty, wealth and worldly status are considered before getting married and such marriages often become the cause of ruining the peace of the home. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the character of the person when deciding about the marriage. The Greatest and Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who performed Nikah with a woman due to her dignity, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his humiliation; the one who performed Nikah due to [the greed of] a woman’s wealth, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his poverty; the one who performed Nikah due to the family honour of the

woman, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his meanness; and the one who performed Nikah only for the reason of protecting his eyes, private parts, or treating his relatives well, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give blessings for him in the woman and give blessings in the man for the woman.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 18, Hadees 2342)

Therefore, instead of gaining wealth and worldly benefits, we should keep in view the piety and religious mindset, and perform marriage among good (religious) people. Moreover, we should obey the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in all matters to make our worldly life and the Hereafter better. While setting an example of the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ended all those useless customs of the [pre-Islamic] era of ignorance which had been practised for a long time.

If only! For the sake of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, we could get the passion for the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

For which acts obedience is a must?

Dear Islamic sisters! Obeying the command of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is called ‘Itaa’at-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ (obedience to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Obedience includes every such act which has been commanded to be refrained from; and also includes those acts which have been commanded to be performed. The way offering Salah, giving Zakah, observing Sawm and other virtuous acts are necessary, similarly, it is also necessary to refrain from the sins like lying, backbiting, tale-telling and listening to music etc. But alas! Due to being distanced away from Deen, Muslims have given up obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Perhaps this is the reason why sins are becoming prevalent in society. The heartbreaking scenes of not practicing the Deen, depravity and going against the Sunnah are found everywhere. Various sins like missing Salah, abusing and swearing, blaming, slandering, ill-suspicions, backbiting, remaining busy in finding people’s faults, spreading people’s faults all around

upon knowing them, lying upon every matter, usurping other’s wealth unjustly, making false promises, being intoxicated by films, dramas, music and songs, daringly dealing with interest and bribery, disobeying parents, arrogance and pride, jealousy, ostentation, and bearing malice etc., are common and prevalent in our society.

Remember! Death will one day cut off our living connection and make us sleep on the soil of the grave lifting us from our comfortable rooms and soft beds. Having remorse at that time will be of no use. Therefore, acting upon the saying “ Value life before death”, appreciating the time we have, repent sincerely from sins and spend time in carrying out good deeds. Let us now listen to 8 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to develop the passion for obeying the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

8 Sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing excellences

1.The most favourite act to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to offer Salah on its stipulated time and to be dutiful and good to your parents.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 18, Hadees 196)

2.The most favourite act to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after the Faraaid is to enter happiness into the heart of an Islamic brother.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 19, Hadees 200)

3.The most favourite house to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the one in which orphan is treated with respect. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 20, Hadees 219)

4.No one can offer better benefit to his Muslim brother than if he receives something good, then he conveys it to his brother.

(Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, pp. 62, Hadees 158)

5.Keep holding your tongue except for good things. This way, you will overcome Satan. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 341, Raqm 29)

6.The perfect one among the Mu`mins [believers] is the one who is best in manners among them, and the best person amongst you is the one who is better in the matters of his family members.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 278, Raqm 2621)

7.The one who sees any fault of his brother and conceals it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him enter Paradise by the virtue of him concealing the fault.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vo. 17, pp. 288, Raqm 795)

8.The one who suffered a physical or financial trouble and then concealed it and did not reveal it to people, then it is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to forgive him. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 214, Hadees 737)

7 Blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing admonitions

Refraining from those sins which the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has condemned and commanded us to refrain from is also obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In this relation, let’s listen to 7 blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1.There are two such people upon whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not have mercy on the Day of Judgement, the one who breaks ties [with his relatives] and a bad neighbour. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 17, Hadees 162)

2.Refrain from oppression! As it is among the darkness of the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 15, Hadees 136)

3. Obscene speech results from hard-heartedness and hard-heartedness is in the fire. (Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 3, pp. 406, Hadees 2016)

4.Abstain from those who bear malice because malice destroys the Deen (religion). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 28, Hadees 5486)

5. The Muslim who breaches promise, upon him is the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels and all the human beings. Neither any of his Fard will be accepted and nor any Nafl. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 370, Hadees 3179)

6.One who harms a Mu`min [believer] or deceives him is accursed. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 378, Hadees 148)

7.Whoever makes his brother feel ashamed for a sin which he has already repented from, then he will not die until he himself does not indulge in that very sin. (Jami’ Tirmiżi, vol. 4, pp. 226, Hadees 2513)

Dear Islamic sisters! If we also succeed in acting upon the abovementioned blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our lives will also be reformed with virtuous deeds and we will get rid of a sinful life. Let’s make good intentions of offering all five Salahs with Jama’at, treating our parents and all Muslims well, pleasing Muslims and refraining from hurting them, being kind to orphans, providing Madani edification to our household according to our capability, telling good things to Muslims, concealing their faults, and showing patience upon troubles.

Moreover, let’s make the intention of abstaining from oppression and injustice, obscene conversation, malice and hatred, cheating, breaking of promises etc., ourselves as well as اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ protecting others too. In addition to this, read two books of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, named ‘ Jannat mayn lay Jaanay walay A’maal’ and ‘ Jahannam mayn lay Jaanay walay A’maal’ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Few Sunnahs and manners of sitting

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of sitting:

٭ Sitting cross-legged is also proved by Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم .

٭ Do not sit where there is sunshine and shade as well. The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When any of you is in shade and the shade then moves away, leaving him partially in the sunshine and partially in shade, then he should stand up from there.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 344, Hadees 4821)

٭ Sit facing the Qiblah. (Rasaail ‘Attariyyah, part, 2, pp. 229)

٭ Sitting on the seats of pious people is against the etiquette. A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: One should not sit on

the seat of his teacher and spiritual guide even in their absence. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 369, 424)

٭ Try not to let your back face towards pious saints while sitting or standing, and the legs must not be straightened out towards them at all.

٭ Whenever you come to any congregation or Majlis, do not come crossing over other people, sit where you get room.

٭ When sitting, take off your shoes, your feet will get comfort.

(Al-Jami-us-Sagheer, pp. 40, Hadees 554)

٭ Standing up out of respect upon the arrival of any Sayyidah (blessed descendant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) Islamic sister or parents is reward (Sawab) bearing. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Naeemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه writes: ‘These two acts i.e. standing-up due to respect and welcoming them are permissible, rather the Sunnah of the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم but rather, these are the blessed Qouli Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

