اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Islamic Services of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحـمَةُ اللّٰهِ عَلَيۡه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat 100 times upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and hellfire, and will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement .’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

اپنے خطا واروں کو اپنے ہی دامن میں لو

کون کرے یہ بھلا، تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam is about to begin. The ‘Urs (death anniversary) of a great personality of the Islamic world is observed on the 2 nd of this sacred month. Who is this great personage? He is the legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

§ The glory and greatness of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can be judged by this thing that the revivalist of the religion (Islam) and our nation, leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah made him the Qadi of Islam in Hind.

§ Judge the glory and greatness of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah from this thing that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه granted his Khilafat upon him.

§ Sadr -ush-Shari’ah was faithful to the Aastanah of his Murshid.

§ Sadr -ush-Shari’ah was very kind and affectionate towards small children.

§ Acting upon the Sunnah, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah used to carry out household chores with his own hands, despite being extremely busy.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would strictly act upon the Sunnahs of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

جن کی ہر ہر اَدا سُنّتِ مُصطَفٰی

ایسے صدر الشّریعہ پہ لاکھوں سلام

§ One of his qualities is that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would never miss his Salah whether he was at home or traveling. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah regularly even in a state of being seriously ill.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such a great passion for Salah with Jama’at that if for any reason the Muazzin was unable to reach on time, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would call out the Azan himself.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loved fasts so much that he did not miss his fasts even during serious illness.

§ No matter how busy he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was, he would recite one part of the Holy Quran after Fajr Salah.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would regularly recite Salat Razawiyyah 100 times after Jumu’ah (Friday) Salah.

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would be very careful about the practical education and upbringing of his children and students.

§ Sadr-ush-Shari’ah was a great lover of the Beloved Rasool. At the time of listening to blessed Na’at, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would fold his hands, close his eyes due to the reverence for the blessed Na’at and would weep in deep remembrance of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away while traveling to Madinah Munawwarah.

§ Pure fragrance had been smelt from his blessed shrine (Mazaar) for many days.

§ His great scholarly achievement was that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه granted the Ummah of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم such a book that (when studied properly) makes a person an ‘Islamic scholar’, this book is called ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at’ .

جس کے دم سے بہارِ شریعت ملی

ایسے صدرِ شریعت پہ لاکھوں سلام

In today’s speech we will have the privilege to hear about the ‘Islamic services of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah’, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but first, let us listen to a brief introduction of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah.

The legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 1882 (1300 AH) in a town named Madina-tul-‘Ulama (Ghausi) of East UP, India. His father Hakeem Jamaluddeen and grandfather Khuda Bakhsh رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were experts in the science of medicine.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received his early education from his grandfather, Maulana Khuda Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه at home, thereafter he went to a Madrasah called ‘Naasir-ul-‘Uloom’ and received further education from Maulana Ilahi Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in his hometown. Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached Jaunpur and studied some lessons from his cousin and teacher Maulana Muhammad Siddeeq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه furthered his Islamic education from a ‘teacher of scholars’, ‘Allamah Hidayatullah Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and it is here that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalim Course). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then completed Dars-e-Hadees in Pilibhit under the guidance of the ‘teacher of Muhaddiseen’, Maulana Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who acknowledged the incredible talents of his promising student in these words: ‘If somebody has learnt from me, it is Amjad Ali’.

(Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 5)

مُصنِّف بھی، مُقرِّر بھی، فَقیہِ عصرِ حاضِر بھی

وہ اپنے آپ میں تھا اِک اِدارہ عِلم و حکمت کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is certainly a great favour of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه upon the Muslims especially of the Subcontinent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه accumulated rulings on jurisprudence in one place in simple writing, which are generally spread out in voluminous Arabic books. This book, ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at’, contains thousands of rulings from birth to death. It also contains countless rulings which are compulsory for every Islamic brother and Islamic sister to learn. Commenting on the causes of writing the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned, ‘There is not a single book written in the Urdu language, until now, that comprises correct rulings and is sufficient for the needs.’

The renowned book of Hanafi jurisprudence, entitled ‘ Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri ’ was compiled by hundreds of Islamic scholars under the supervision of Sayyiduna Shaykh Nizamuddin Mulla Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the Arabic language, but may I be sacrificed for him that the same work Sadr-ush-Shari’ah did in Urdu all by himself, and included those rulings from different Islamic books after selecting them for which Fatawa were issued. Furthermore, he also included hundreds of verses and thousands of Ahadees in the book as per the situation. For expressing the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself stated, ‘If king Aurangzeb ‘Aalamgeer had seen this book (Bahar-e-Shari’at), he would have weighed me in gold.’ His aim was to make the Muslims especially of the Subcontinent aware of the Islamic rulings in an easy way. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said at another place, ‘An attempt has been made to a greater possible extent in this book to make the lines easy and comprehensive so that no one bothers to struggle to understand it and as a result, the less educated, even women and children could also gain benefit from it.’

Then too, knowledge is very difficult. It is not possible that the problems in understanding knowledge will be no more. There will certainly be occasions when one will need to contact Islamic scholars to understand something from this book. There will be this benefit at least that its mention will alert them and their act of not understanding will focus their attention to the ones who have greater understanding of this book.

In order to make this great scholarly treasure of Bahar-e-Shari’at more effective, the Madani Islamic scholars of Dawat-e-Islami’s Majlis Al-Madina-tul- ‘Ilmiyyah have made deductions and have simplified this book. Furthermore, at some places efforts are also made to include references. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the complete book has been published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah and is now available in the market. The simple edition is available in 3 volumes and the colourful dowry edition in 6 volumes, these can be purchased from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. In addition to this, the book can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

This book was written over a period of 27 years. Remember, 27 years does not mean that he remained busy working on this book all the time, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote this book during the holidays and when he was free from

other activities, therefore its completion took a long time. At the end of part 17 of Bahar-e-Shari’at he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written: It usually happened in its writing that the time I had from the other activities during the holidays of the blessed month of Ramadan, I wrote some of it. (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 44-47)

It is stated in the booklet ‘ Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah ’, the summary of which is this that Sadr-ush-Shari’ah wanted to cover Shar’i rulings in 20 parts of Bahar-e-Shari’at, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could not complete it and made this will: It will be a great pleasure for me if any one amongst my children or pupils or Islamic scholars of the Ahl-us-Sunnah completes the small part which is left. The dream of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah came true and its remaining three parts have also been published. (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 48)

When the Murshid of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه studied the second, third and the fourth part of Bahar-e-Shari’at, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote praiseworthy words about it and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned: This kind of book is required today so that people can find the correct rulings in simple Urdu. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 2, vol. 1, pp. 414)

آپ کی تصنیف نے مُستَغنِی ہم کو کردیا غیر کے آگے جبینِ اہلسنت خم نہیں

ہر طرف علم و ہنر کا آپ سے دریا بہا آپ کا احسان اے صدرُ الشّریعہ کم نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! The Khalifah of A’la Hadrat, the legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami’s blessed heart was filled so much with the great passion for the service of Islam, ease for the Ummah and the passion for providing Shar’i guidance to Muslims that the Shar’i rulings which were concealed in voluminous Arabic books and were difficult to not only general Muslims, but also to specific Muslims. The renowned Islamic scholars would include them in their Fatawa as authenticity.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Despite being so busy, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه devoted the precious time of his life for accumulating many necessary rulings and then strived to put all of them in the form of a book. This amazing and outstanding achievement of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only made Islam and the Ahl-us-Sunnah (Sunnis) feel proud, but it also spread the blessed Shari’ah and the blessings of the pious saints throughout the world and did the great favour for the Ummah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that the return of which can never be paid. It can only be said for the great Islamic services he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rendered in such a short period of time that he was one of the fortunate and lucky personages whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had selected for the service of Islam after granting him the understanding of Islam.

Sayyiduna Muhammad-ur-Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do good with somebody, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him the understanding of religion (Islam). (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-‘Ilm, vol. 1, pp. 43, Hadees 71)

Elaborating on this Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This means that he is granted Islamic knowledge, Islamic understanding and wisdom. Two rulings have been proven from this Hadees—firstly, it is not Islamic knowledge to commit the translation and words of the Quran and Hadees to memory, but their understanding is Islamic knowledge, which is difficult. Therefore, the blessed Islamic Jurists are followed. For this reason, all commentators and Muhaddiseen, followed the great Aimmah Mujtahideen and did not feel proud of their own understanding of the blessed Ahadees. Secondly, not just having the knowledge of Quran and Hadees is excellence, but correctly understanding them is excellence. An Islamic scholar is he who has the sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on his tongue and their blessings in his heart. Blessings are also necessary along with sayings as the fitting of electrical equipment is necessary along with electrical power.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 187)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If we look at the life history of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it will become obvious for us that he spent his days and nights in serving Islam, Quran and Hadees and for spreading the teachings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Furthermore, the propagation of Islam and the betterment of the Ummah remained an essential part of his aims. This Madani enthusiasm inspired him to pave the way for a translation of the Holy Quran for the Muslims that can be easy to read and understand, increase fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart of its readers and listeners, to be a true representative of the sanctity of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, glory and greatness of the blessed Prophets and the protection of their honour and that can be a true guard and protector of the glory and dignity of the sacred personages’ like the blessed companions and great saints. Therefore, with the sacred passion for serving Islam and helping the Muslims, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه requested his spiritual guide, the reviver of the true teachings of Islam, A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to do the translation of the Holy Quran that can protect the honour of these holy personages.

Discussing the Islamic services of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with reference to the translation of the Holy Quran, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned on page 17 and 18 of his booklet named ‘ Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah ’: Realizing the need of such a translation of the Holy Quran which is correct and free of mistakes, as well as in conformity with the blessed Ahadees of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sayings of the learned Islamic scholars, Sadr-ush- Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه requested A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to do a translation of the Holy Quran. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘It is in fact absolutely crucial, but how will all the printing activities be carried out? Who will make the arrangement of its printing, write copies whilst in the state of Wudu, make corrections of its copies and letters in the state of Wudu? And the correction should be such that there should not be any mistakes of accents, points or signs. After all these tasks, the toughest task is that the press workers should remain in the state of Wudu all the time.

They should neither touch nor cut the stones without Wudu. They should take great care when cutting stones and the duplicate copies which come out while printing should be placed very carefully.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly said: اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will attempt to fulfil whatever is necessary; suppose if we admit that we cannot do it all so if the initiative is taken of one thing and to be completed, it can lead to fulfil the next task and the chain goes on and therefore someone makes arrangements for the printing of it to benefit the people. Furthermore, if the initiative is not taken then we will regret this in future.

The work of translation was initiated after his firm resolution and strong determination and بِحَمۡدِ اللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through his praiseworthy endeavours, a great success was achieved and today a large number of Muslims are enjoying the benefits of the correct translation of the Holy Quran i.e. ‘Translation of Kanz-ul-Iman’ written by the greatest reviver, the leader of the Ahl-us-Sunnah (A’la Hadrat) رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and we are grateful to Sadr-ush-Shari’ah as well and اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this will continue until the Day of Judgement.

گر اہلِ چمن فخر کریں اس پہ بجا ہے

امجد تھا گلابِ چمنِ دانش و حکمت

Dear Islamic brothers! Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made many sacrifices in order for the Muslims to have the blessings of Quran and for maintaining the protection of true Islamic teachings. By virtue of this splendid achievement, it will be absolutely right to say about him that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was not less than any great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Muslims because it was the result of his constant efforts that he convinced the busiest personage like A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to translate the Holy Quran. Furthermore, may I be sacrificed for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! Despite being so busy with Islamic works, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه found the time from his busy life and agreed to carry out this great task to serve the Holy Quran, to help the Muslims and to please his dear Khalifah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the special attention of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and thanks to Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, we have been blessed with the best (Urdu) translation of the Holy Quran in history named, ‘ Kanz-ul-Iman ’, upon which our future generations will feel proud of.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

For attaining the spiritual blessings of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and actively participate in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs. One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is ‘Madani Qafilah’, the aim of which is to fill our Masajid with Muslims to offer Salah. It is stated about those who go to Masajid for Salah, in a blessed Hadees: Undoubtedly, those who regularly go to Allah’s houses for Salah, are Allah-fearing people.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 58, Hadees 2502)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for our persuasion.

A person from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi, had a heart disease. Doctors told him that the two arteries of his heart were blocked and suggested angiography to him as the cure. This poor person became extremely worried, as he was unable to afford the expenses of the surgery. Meanwhile, by making individual efforts, an Islamic brother persuaded him to travel with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami and make Du’a. Therefore, he travelled with a 3-day Madani Qafilah.

On his return from the Madani Qafilah, he felt much better. When he had his tests done, the reports showed no heart disease at all. The doctor asked him astonishingly, ‘Two of your heart’s arteries were blocked, but now they have opened; how did this happen!’ He replied that اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he had been cured

from the lethal heart disease due to the blessing of travelling with Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Qafilah.

ہے شفا ہی شفا، مرحبا! مرحبا!

آ کے خود دیکھ لیں، قافلے میں چلو

دل میں گر دَرد ہو ڈر سے رُخ زَرد ہو

پاؤ گے فَرحتیں قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed, the life of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is the best ideal for us because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not let any moment of his life go to waste without serving Islam and the Sunnahs, without propagating Islamic knowledge and propagating Islam. In addition to this, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted great blessings in his time and pen. Therefore, despite being busy the whole day with virtuous acts, he remained active.

Remember! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not carry out this task for any greed, but he carried it out only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After Fajr Salah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started his activities (Islamic activities) which continued until late night, even until 2 o’clock when he finally rest. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for these outstanding services, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with a high rank that even today a large number of people are attaining the blessings from the books which he wrote, in particular, ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’. Furthermore, the brother of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Muhammad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so impressed by his passion for serving Islam that he uttered this praiseworthy and historical sentence in the honour of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah: ‘Maulana Amjad Ali is the machine of work and the machine that never fails.’

Let’s listen to the busiest Madani schedule of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and something about his busy schedule in Madina-tul-Murshid, Bareilly [Hind] so that we can also develop feelings and motivation to take part in Islamic activities.

In his booklet, ‘ Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah ’, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated: The daily schedule of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was like this, he would carry out press work for 60 or 90 minutes after Fajr Salah and necessary invocations and recitation of the Holy Quran. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would then immediately go to the Madrasah and teach. After lunch, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would perform press duties. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would again teach in the Madrasah after Zuhr to ‘Asr Salah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would then sit in the service of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه after Asr to Maghrib Salah. After Maghrib to ‘Isha and after ‘Isha till 12 o’clock he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would write Fatawa in the service of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go back home and do something related to writing and would then retire to bed at 2 o’clock. This had been his daily routine till the demise of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, that is, for approximately 10 years. Renowned Islamic scholars of that era were astonished at this hard work and determination of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 16-17)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had two permanent duties to carry out. (1) Teaching in the Madrasah (2) dealing with all pieces of work related to press i.e., correction of copies and proofs, dispatching books, replies to letters and keeping accounts of receiving and expenses. He would carry out all these duties alone. Besides these activities, he would also carry out the tasks of rewriting Fatawa and writing Fatawa (Islamic verdicts) in the presence of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه on a permanent basis. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also attend the congregations of preaching Islam in different areas.

(Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 15)

مُصنِّف بھی، مُقرِّر بھی، فَقیہِ عصرِ حاضِر بھی

وہ اپنے آپ میں تھا اِک اِدارہ عِلم و حکمت کا

Explanation of couplet: The meaning of this couplet is this: Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a writer (that is, he would write books,

deliver speeches) and a great Islamic scholar at the same time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an institution of knowledge himself, سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would easily carry out many tasks in a day. Just ponder over it, that if any of us had been assigned with so many tasks, then perhaps we would refuse to accept any other appointments because it is not possible for everyone to carry out so many tasks in a very short period of time. Despite all these activities, the state of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and passion for following Shari’ah was that after being busy the whole day with Islamic activities, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never remained heedless of offering Salah. His love for Salah can be judged by the fact that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not like to abandon or miss Salah even when seriously ill. Once the time of Salah had passed due to him being unconscious, when he was informed of this, after regaining consciousness, his condition became so bad (due to missing Salah without having any control to perform it) that tears suddenly streamed down his face.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has quoted in his booklet ‘ Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah ’: Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would never miss his Salah whether on a journey or staying at home. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah even in the state of being extremely ill. Once Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a very high fever in Ajmer, the fever was so severe that he lay unconscious from Zuhr to ‘Asr. Hafiz-e-Millat Maulana Abdul ‘Azeez رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was there to treat him. When Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه regained consciousness, the first thing he asked was, ‘What time is it? Is it not the time of Zuhr?’ Hafiz-e-Millat Maulana Abdul ‘Azeez رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly informed him that the time of Zuhr had passed. Upon hearing this he was so grieved that tears streamed down his blessed face. Haafiz-e-Millat humbly asked if he had any pain in any part

of his body. Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘The biggest trouble is that the Salah of Zuhr has been missed.’ Haafiz-e-Millat humbly said, ‘You were unconscious; in the state of being unconscious there is no accountability for missed Salah on the Day of Judgement.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘You are talking about accountability; I remained deprived of the privilege of paying my presence on the set time in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 30)

میں پانچوں نَمازیں پڑھوں باجماعت ہو توفیق ایسی عطا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The parable we have just heard contains a serious lesson especially for those who praise Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and claim to have love and devotion to him, but alas, unfortunately they do not have the Madani mind-set like him because such people instead of spending their precious days in those acts mentioned by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they waste their time by playing cards, Ludo, flying kites, playing sports and video games or by watching video games, unnecessary chatting etc., watching films and dramas, listening to music or using their mobile phones; computers; internet or social media unnecessarily for hours.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

§ Unnecessary use of the phone, internet, social media.

§ Unnecessary meeting with people.

§ Having useless conversations (which neither has any religious nor worldly benefit).

§ Not analysing everyday affairs

§ Avoiding seclusion

§ Oversleeping

§ Delaying in matters deliberately due to laziness (procrastination).

§ Despite taking advantage of learning from someone or gaining the advantage from others’ experiences, one conducts experiments of everything on their own (in this way plenty of time is spent, whereas time can be saved if advantage is gained by another person’s experiences).

§ Not finishing work at its fixed time.

§ Complaining for the shortage of time despite having time.

§ Wasting time in bad company and with bad friends.

Dear Islamic brothers! The vast majority of Muslims, who are involved in such matters, do not even feel ashamed م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ of not performing the obligatory acts like Salah. Remember! To not offer Salah without any Shar’i reason is a sin and Haraam and an act leading to Hell. Severe punishments have been mentioned in the blessed Ahadees for not offering Salah. Let’s listen to a blessed Hadees and its explanation about not offering Salah to take some warning. Listen and tremble with Divine fear.

The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who protects the five (obligatory) Salah, for him the Salah will become Noor, evidence and salvation on the Day of Judgement; and the one who does not protect it, there will be no Noor, evidence or salvation for him on the Day of Judgement and such a person will be kept with Pharaoh, Qaroon, Haaman and Ubayy Bin Khalaf on the Day of Judgement. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 4, pp. 259, Hadees 11661)

Commenting on this part ‘ the person who protects Salah ’ of the above-mentioned Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in its explanation: He should always offer Salah correctly with full attention and sincerity. In the explanation of this part ‘ the Salah will become Noor, evidence and salvation for him on the Day of Judgement ’ Mufti Sahib has said: The grave is also included in the Day of Judgement, because death is also part of the Day of

Judgement. It means that Salah will be a light in the grave and on the Siraat bridge; the place of Sajdah will shine brightly and Salah will give evidence of him being a true believer, or rather the one who recognizes Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, he will attain salvation everywhere by virtue of this Salah, because the first question on the Day of Judgement will be about Salah. If a person succeeds in answering this question, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will succeed in subsequent stages as well.

Explaining on this part ‘ such a person will be kept with Pharaoh, Qaroon, Haaman and Ubayy Bin Khalaf on the Day of Judgement, ’ Mufti Sahib has said that) Ubayy Bin Khalaf is that Mushrik (polytheist) whom the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم slayed himself with his own blessed hands on the Day of ‘Uhud. It has also been suggested that people who do not offer Salah, will be made to rise with the disbelievers, and those who offer Salah, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be made to rise with the Prophets, Siddiqeen, martyrs and pious people. It does not mean that people who do not offer Salah will become disbelievers and those who do perform Salah will become Prophets. People who do not offer Salah, will be made to stand with the disbelievers on the Day of Judgement because it is insulting to a noble person if he is made to sit with a disgraceful person.

Remember, on the Day Judgement, everyone will be resurrected with the person whom they loved in the world and after whom they followed. Since those who do not offer Salah, behave as disbelievers (by not offering Salah), they will be resurrected with them. Those who offer Salah act like the Prophets and Siddiqeen, and therefore they will be resurrected with them. That’s why it is said that imitating good people is good and imitating bad people is bad. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 367-368)

Some honourable Islamic scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: The one who abandons Salah will be resurrected with Pharaoh, Qaroon, Haaman and Ubayy Bin Khalaf on the Day of Judgement because people usually abandon their Salah due to wealth, rule, ministry and trade. The one who abandons his Salah due to being occupied with state affairs will be resurrected with Pharaoh. The one who abandons his Salah owing to his wealth will be resurrected with Qaroon. If the reason of abandoning Salah is ministry, he will be resurrected with

Pharaoh’s minister, Haaman and if the reason of abandoning Salah is being occupied in trade, he will be resurrected with Ubayy Bin Khalaf, the head trader of the disbelievers in Makka-tul-Mukarramah. (Az-Zawajir, vol. 1, pp. 288)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! For obtaining further information about Sadr-ush-Shari’ah’s Islamic services and his life and character study the booklet written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Furthermore, the accurate judgement of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah’s Islamic services can be fully appreciated only when we study Bahar-e-Shari’at . Listen to what we have in Bahar-e-Shari’at .

§ Among Sadr-ush-Shari’ah’s scholarly achievements, Bahar-e-Shari’at is on top of the list.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at is a collection of many branches of knowledge (encyclopaedia).

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at contains all the essential rulings from beliefs to routine matters of everyday life.

§ Hundreds of verses and thousands of Ahadees according to different topics have been included in Bahar-e-Shari’at.

§ The sayings, for which Fatwa is issued, have been mentioned to a possible extent in Bahar-e-Shari’at.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at is a great favour for the Muslims of Pakistan, India and globally in which many rulings on jurisprudence have been gathered in one place.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at contains innumerable rulings which are compulsory for every Islamic brother and Islamic sister to learn.

§ Commenting on the cause of undertaking such a huge piece of work, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There is not a single book written in the Urdu language which comprises correct rulings and is enough for the needs.

§ A desperate attempt has been made in Bahar-e-Shari’at to make the lines easy and comprehensive so that no one bothers to struggle to understand it and as a result the less educated, even women and children could also gain benefit from it.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at contains verses, blessed Ahadees and countless Shar’i rulings in every part along with obligatory knowledge.

§ By reading Bahar-e-Shari’at a person not only brightens his heart and mind, but he is also privileged to seek Shar’i guidance.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at’s simple edition in 3 volumes and the colourful edition in 6 volumes can be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

§ Bahar-e-Shari’at can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is a true follower of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah and has great importance for his Islamic services. Therefore, he too remains busy with Islamic activities. From time to time, he persuades his disciples, friends and relatives through his Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs to actively participate in the Madani activities to serve Islam. To accomplish this, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat has included the following question in the 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers, In Madani In’aam no. 23 he has stated: Today, did you spend at least 2 hours for Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami (e.g. inspiring others through individual efforts, attending a Dars or Bayan or Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults, etc.)?

The way to give at least 2 hours for Madani activities is that a permanent schedule of these two hours should be made in consultation with the Nigran of your area in which Islamic brothers should participate practically in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. For example, Madani Dars, to study and teach in Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults, to make an individual effort to act upon the Madani In’amaat and to travel with Madani Qafilahs etc.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us with the yearning to take part in Madani activities and make us steadfast in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for the sake of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah and Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Fortunate are those who despite being famous from a religious perspective, do not leave their Murshid (spiritual guide) and remain faithful disciples until their last breath. Their Madani passion for faithfulness does not decrease whether their blessed Murshid is alive or has passed away. They even love very much the things which have a relation to their Murshid (spiritual guide).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also one of the loving and faithful disciples of A’la Hadrat of whose competence the personality like A’la Hadrat was also very proud of. His love and faithfulness to his spiritual guide can be judged by this that he lived in blessed Bareilly for a long time. However, by virtue of his sincere Islamic services he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه established a unique reputation in the public. If he had wanted, he could have accumulated lots of wealth and property through them, but his honour did not like to do this. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not even make his own house, but rather by virtue of being with his spiritual guide he considered it his own home in blessed Bareilly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became so absorbed in the affection of his blessed spiritual guide that if someone admired his scholarly achievements and abilities, then despite being overjoyed and considering those achievements and abilities as his own

excellences, he considered them as the blessings and favour of his spiritual guide (i.e., A’la Hadrat, leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه).

Once someone talked about ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in front of the beloved son of A’la Hadrat, ‘Allamah Maulana Mustafa Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, tears began streaming down Mufti-e- A’zam’s eyes and he said that Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not make his own home and considered Bareilly his home. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was influential and a teacher of a large number of students. If he had wanted, he could have easily opened his own Dar-ul-‘Uloom, but his sincerity did not let him do it. Having become the Sadr-ul-Mudarriseen of Dar-ul-‘Uloom Mu’eeniyah ‘Usmaniyah (Ajmer, Hind) when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached there, people of that locality got very impressed by his teaching style and this was mentioned to him: Your education seems very successful. This main Dar-ul-‘Uloom is becoming famous. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: This is the blessing and favour of A’la Hadrat upon me. (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 23-24)

احمد رضا نے جس کو دعا میں کہا میرا امجد یقینًا مجد میں پکا ہے آج بھی

ثابت کیا ہے صدرُ الشّریعہ نے بالیقین احمد رضا کی شمع فروزاں ہے آج بھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! By the blessing and favour of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, on 15 th Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 1421 AH, the global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah (Dawat-e-Islami) started Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat. Today it has 10 branches. The Shar’i guidance of this grieved Ummah continues. Not only can people meet in Dar-ul-Ifta offices, but they can also ask for a written Fatwa. Furthermore, the facility of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat Online is also

available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ under the name of Islamic knowledge, a series of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat is also being broadcasted on the 100% Islamic channel, Madani Channel.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Despite being the Imam of all the blessed Prophets, our Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was so humble that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to actively participate in the household chores.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would do his household chores himself with his own blessed hands. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would eat a meal sitting with his servants and would help his servants with the household chores. (Ash-Shifa, vol. 1, pp. 132)

Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were also devoted to acting upon the Sunnahs. Therefore, with the passion for acting upon the Sunnah these great people would also do the household chores happily with their own hands. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A Taabi’i saint said: I saw the leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم buying meat for one dirham and took it in his shawl. I humbly said: O leader of the believers! Please give it to me, I will carry it. He said: No, the person who has a family should carry his own goods. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 1050)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sadr-ush-Shari’ah was a lover of the Beloved Prophet and used to remember the pious predecessors. Therefore, despite being busy day and night with Islamic activities, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not feel embarrassed to carry out household chores, rather, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would carry them out happily with the intention of acting upon the Sunnah. Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would peel and cut vegetables and also carry out other chores.

(Mahnamah Ashrafiyah, pp. 54)

Dear Islamic brothers! Unfortunately, there are some people who make their busy schedules as an excuse and feel embarrassed to participate in the household chores, while some people consider them against their honour or reputation. They are polite and sociable outside the home, but are not the same with their family members as they enter their homes and roar like a lion. For example, if a task is given to them to accomplish, they become angry, pull a long face and clearly refuse to do it by complaining. We must not shy away from doing the household chores, rather, we should also act upon the Beloved Prophet’s beautiful Sunnah of performing household chores besides other Sunnahs.

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have been privileged to hear about the Islamic services of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this great personage filled with the passion of serving Islam, he accumulated rulings on jurisprudence selected from the famous books of jurisprudence, which also contain verses of the Glorious Quran and many Ahadees, all compiled in a great book named, ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also had the privilege to get the Holy Quran translated from his spiritual guide, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Proving himself to be faithful and loving to his spiritual guide he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made the city of his spiritual guide his residence to the end. Despite being very busy, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never abandoned his Salah even during his illness.

Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would happily carry out household chores himself with the intention of acting upon a Sunnah. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with a Madani thought like what Sadr-ush-Shari’ah had, so that we can also attain the yearning to serve Islam, be loyal to our spiritual guide and become from amongst those who act upon the beautiful Sunnahs of also carrying out household chores!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. A saying of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Wear shoes sufficiently, because it is as if one is on a ride (that is, he does not tire much) as long as he is wearing shoes.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1161, Hadees 2096)

2. Clean out the shoes before wearing them so that any insects or stones are removed .

3. First put on the right shoe then the left. When taking them off, take off the left one first then the right .

4. Men should wear men’s shoes and women should wear women’s shoes .

5. Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘Women should not wear men’s shoes. Furthermore, all those things which differentiate the two genders are not allowed for the opposite, whether it is the action or appearance. Neither should men adopt feminine styles nor should women adopt masculine styles.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 65, vol. 16)

6. When you sit down take off the shoes as this gives comfort to the feet .

7. One of the causes of poverty is to leave the shoe lying upside down when found like that. If you see a used shoe upside down, put it upright .

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

