Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Islamic Saints’ Passion for Reforming the Ummah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Recite Salat upon me abundantly on Friday night and on the day of Friday [from sunset on Thursday to sunset on Friday], because your Salat is presented to me. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 84, Hadees 241)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE:​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! There are numerous virtues and blessings of inviting Islamic sisters to good and forbidding them from evil. That was the reason why our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would not observe heedlessness in inviting people to good and forbidding them from evil.

If we study the history of Islam, then we realise that the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used their time in the most appropriate manner and authored books on various sciences due to their great passion for creating ease for the future generations and propagating the knowledge of Deen. These noble saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی sacrificed their time and household for the accomplishment of the great purpose of the call to righteousness.

If we think about it, then at times we will see the pages of history adorned with the likes of Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه distributing the pearls of knowledge of Deen and at times, we will see the name of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه enlightening the hearts of people with the Noor [luminosity] of ‘Ilm (knowledge). At some places, we will see Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reforming the Ummah and at some places, we will find the name of the great personality like Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who quenched the thirst of knowledge seekers through his writings.

In the current era, in order to spread call to righteousness across the globe, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه laid foundations of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, “Dawat-e-Islami” . In short, these sacred personalities continued the great work of reforming the Ummah through their Bayans [speeches], teachings, books, compilations and call to righteousness.

Let us today listen to some faith-refreshing events of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی that are filled with the passion of reforming the Ummah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated a faith-refreshing parable on page 459-460 of the great and renowned book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’, volume 2 of Faizan-e-Sunnat (Blessings of Sunnah). Let us also listen to this parable and try to enlighten our hearts with its Madani pearls!

Whole tribe became Muslim

Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ along with Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ travelled in the Divine path and reached a garden of the tribe Bani Zafar where they sat on [the sidewall of] a well, namely ‘Maraq’ [ مَرَقۡ ]. People from the tribe of Banu Aslam gathered around them. The most powerful chiefs of the tribe were Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and Usayd Bin Hudayr who had not yet entered the fold of Islam. Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was a first cousin [i.e. a son of the maternal aunt] of Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz sent Usayd Bin Hudayr instructing him, ‘Go! Rebuke those two preachers and stop them who have come to mislead our naive people’ (م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ). Therefore, Usayd Bin Hudayr picked up his spear and reached where they were present. As soon as he arrived, he started speaking ill of them and threatened, ‘If your life is dear to you, go away from here.’ (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said kindly and affectionately, ‘Please sit down and just listen to what we say. If you find it to be appropriate, then accept it. If you do not like it, we will not force you.’

The nice words had an impact on Usayd Bin Hudayr. Sinking his spear into the ground, he sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented him with Madani pearls about Islam, reciting the Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A Madani revolution occurred in his heart and he had the honour of embracing Islam. Having embraced Islam, he said, ‘Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz will come here shortly. If he accepts your advice, my entire tribe will accept it. I am sending him to you.’ Saying this, he went straight to the place where Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was present and convinced him to meet the two preachers.

As soon as Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz arrived, he started speaking ill of them. (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ persuaded him kindly and affectionately to listen to the call to righteousness. He also sank his spear into the ground and sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented him also with Madani pearls about the perfection of Islam. He also recited the initial Ayahs of Surah Az-Zukhruf. The blessed Ayahs had a profound impact on the heart of Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and he also embraced Islam. Having become Muslim, Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned to his tribe and said, ‘What do you think of me?’ ‘You are our chief and your opinions are correct and highly regarded’, all the people said with one voice. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘It is Haraam [i.e. prohibited] for me to talk to your men and women unless you believe in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

The narrator said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! All men and women of the tribe became Muslim before evening.’ (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah, vol. 2, pp. 527-529; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard how bravely blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would convey the call to righteousness even by endangering their own lives! This parable also shows that individual efforts upon Islamic sisters associated with different walks of life who are obeyed by other Islamic sisters may bring about far-reaching effects. The way when two chiefs of the tribe ‘Banu Aslam’ were called towards righteousness by the means of individual efforts, they accepted the call to righteousness by entering the fold of Islam and brought the entire tribe into it [fold of Islam].

Once a Muballighah (preacher Islamic sister) has met a dignitary (woman), she should remain in touch with her at least for as long as the dignitary attends Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Islamic sisters. This is how one shall remain in touch with every new Islamic sister as well. Just shaking hands and talking as a formality should not be deemed enough.

Beware! The Muballighah must not have the dignitary resolve her personal issues. She must not request the dignitary to help her lend her money etc. Rather, she should keep making individual efforts for her (dignitary) to attend the Ijtima’ [congregation] and act upon Madani In’amaat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Trying to reform wicked people, i.e. calling them towards righteousness and forbidding them from evil, is not a new or an ordinary task, rather, this is that great act which has duly been performed by the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام very well. Thereafter, when the chain of Nubuwwah came to an end, the blessed ardent companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were given this noble responsibility.

Overwhelmed with the passion of reforming the Ummah, when these sacred personalities started the Madani activity of calling people to righteousness, then they were not welcomed with the shower of rose petals and floral garlands. Rather, in return for this favour, they were severely oppressed, tortured by being imprisoned and even their body skins were ripped off. They were dragged on blazing sand; arrows, swords and spears were pierced into their bodies, to the extent that these sacred people did not even care about their lives in the way of Allah Almighty and many of them also embraced martyrdom. In short, the glorious manner in which these Allah-loving people continued the Madani activity of reforming people is indeed matchless.

Whereas, today things are totally different; Islamic sisters show great respect to the (female) preachers. Despite this fact, the state of our laziness is such that various evils are in full swing around us and in our neighbourhood. We do get a lot of opportunities to convey the call towards righteousness but alas! Seeing Islamic sisters involved in sins and despite having the ability and power to reform them, we remain heedless of reforming them due to our sheer laziness and shyness and remain engaged in our own reformation only.

Remember! Despite having ability and power, turning away from neighbours and other people indulged in sins by not reforming them is truly a cause of serious loss. In this relation, let us listen to a heart-trembling narration and make our mind to call people towards righteousness.

Harm of not stopping neighbour from sin

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘It is written in the blessed Torah that the one whose neighbour indulges in sins and he does not prevent him (despite having the power and ability to do so) is also involved in that sin.’ (Az-Zuhd lil-Imam Ahmad, pp. 134, Raqm 527)

A deaf with cut ears

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘If anyone hears that so-and-so has committed a sin and then does not prevent the sinner (despite having the power to do so) will be raised as a deaf with his ears cut off on the Day of Judgement. (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 236)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Along with other righteous activities, our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were also enriched with the Madani passion of reforming the Ummah. Their hearts would always remain restless to reform the Ummah. Their way of reformation was full of emotions and compassion. If someone sought advice from them while walking on the way or even during traveling, then these sacred personalities would not delay and instantly bless them with the “Madani pearls of reformation” with sincerity then and there while shedding tears and overcoming with the fear of Allah Almighty. While mentioning those Madani pearls, not only would they start shedding tears but those who would listen to them would also be overtaken with an emotional state. Let us listen to an admonitory parable and pick Madani pearls from it.

Cried out of fear of Allah Almighty while conveying the call to righteousness

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Bashshaar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Imam Abu Yusuf Fasawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and I were going to Syria. A person came in front of him, said Salam and humbly said, ‘O Abu Yusuf! Give me some advice.’ Listening to it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wept and said (while conveying the call to righteousness), ‘O brother! Undoubtedly, the quick passing of days and nights indicate that your body is weakening, your age is ending and every moment, your death is fast approaching. Therefore, o my brother! You must not be satisfied unless you have known for sure that you would have a good end and whether you would enter Paradise or مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Hell is your abode; and whether Allah Almighty is pleased with you because of His grace and mercy or is displeased with you because of your sins and heedlessness. O, weak man! Do not forget what you actually are. You were an impure droplet in the beginning and would be a rotten corpse in the end. If you are unable to realise the depth of my advice now, then you will soon realise it when you would be buried in your grave. One will be embarrassed by his sins there but it will be of no use.’

Saying this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه began to weep and the advice-seeking person also began to cry. The narrator goes onto say that seeing them both weeping made me weep as well, to the extent that they both fell unconscious.

(Zamm-ul-Hawa, pp. 437; summarised)

Dear Islamic sisters! The abovementioned parable contains many Madani pearls of advice for us. For example, when a preacher gets the privilege to try to reform the Islamic sisters individually or collectively, she should not regard herself as a pious and ascetic person requiring no more reform at all. Rather, whatever she says, she should address it to herself thinking that in fact, this piece of advice is for me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Enriched with the blessings of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is constantly striving to reform the Ummah. Acting upon this great Sunnah, some preachers Islamic sisters associated with this movement try to reform strayed Islamic

sisters by calling them towards righteousness with extreme humility and tearful eyes. Undoubtedly, this is through the collective and individual efforts of the sincere preachers like them that today, Sunnahs have prevailed in our society.

Those who were heretics (people with corrupt beliefs), who were disobedient to their parents, who were fashion lovers, who were passionate about music and singing, who were indulged in carnal love; in short, they were severely submerged into various sins, but when the sincere preachers of Dawat-e-Islami called them towards righteousness drawing their attention towards the contemplation of Hereafter whilst being overcome with the fear of Allah Almighty, then the same very people became soft-hearted, associated themselves with Dawat-e-Islami and began to propagate Sunnahs. Therefore, we should also mentally prepare ourselves to take part in this great noble cause.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The noble act of calling Muslims towards righteousness in order to reform them is such a great action that Allah Almighty has also praised such people in the Glorious Quran who perform this important obligation. Therefore, it is stated in part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah No. 33:

وَ مَنْ اَحْسَنُ قَوْلًا مِّمَّنْ دَعَاۤ اِلَى اللّٰهِ وَ عَمِلَ صَالِحًا وَّ قَالَ اِنَّنِیْ مِنَ الْمُسْلِمِیْنَ(۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whose speech is better than him who calls towards his Lord and does righteous deeds, and says, ‘I am a Muslim’?

(Part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah 33)

Commenting on the foregoing Ayah, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: In this (calling towards righteousness), the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best. By his sake, blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and scholars, even Muazzins (i.e. those who call towards Salah), those who say Takbeer, and every believer who calls the creation of Allah Almighty towards any righteousness are also included in the aforementioned Ayah. So we have come to know that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves the

speech of the one who calls towards righteousness, even if he does so in simple words and has a rough voice. (Tafseer Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 766)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! O Islamic sisters who deliver Sunnah-inspiring reformative Bayans! O the ones who attain the privilege of delivering Madani Dars! Rejoice upon the mercy of Allah Almighty as Allah Almighty loves the speech of the one who calls people towards righteousness. Do not lose heart whether anybody teases you, taunts you, makes fun of you or passes any type of comments. Rather, remember the inflictions and persecutions caused to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Taa’if. Remember, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presented call towards righteousness despite tying stones to his blessed belly due to starvation, being severely opposed and facing various kinds of false accusations. May Allah Almighty grant us Taufeeq (ability) to abundantly preach call towards righteousness with passion and enthusiasm.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reformation of the one performing ablution [Wudu]

A pious saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was passing through an area in Baghdad. He saw a young man who was not performing ablution in an appropriate manner. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه explained him in an extremely affectionate manner, ‘O young man! Perform ablution correctly. May Allah Almighty bestow favour upon you in this world and the Hereafter!’ Saying this, the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went away. After the ablution, the young man who was very impressed by the call to righteousness conveyed to him very politely by the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, went to him and sought advice from him. (Conveying the call to righteousness) the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him three Madani pearls of advice:

1. Be aware that the one who gained the Ma’rifah [i.e. true recognition] of Allah Almighty will gain salvation.

2. One who feared Allah Almighty in terms of his religion is protected from destructiveness.

3. One who adopts asceticism [i.e. disinterest] in the world will feast his eyes on the reward granted to him by Allah Almighty on the Day of Judgement.

(The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then said), ‘Should I not tell you more?’ The young man replied, ‘Please do tell me.’ The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Anyone having three characteristics has perfected his faith:

1. One who enjoins good and also acts accordingly.

2. One who forbids evil and also refrains from it.

3. One who protects Divinely-declared bounds (i.e. carries out the commandments of Shari’ah and refrains from Shari’ah-prohibited deeds).

The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said, ‘Should I tell you something more?’ The young man replied, ‘Why not? Please do tell me.’ The saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Get uninterested in the world and develop an interest in the Hereafter. Adopt truthfulness with Allah Almighty in every matter of yours. You will gain salvation with other salvation-gaining individuals.’ Saying this, the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went away. When the young man enquired about the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he was told that the saint was Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 45, summarised)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard that how affectionately the leader of millions of Shaafi’i Muslims, Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Idrees Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made the individual effort. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reformed a young man who was not performing ablution properly as well as conveyed the call to righteousness to him. If only! We also succeed in following his footsteps. If we ever see someone making mistakes in Wudu, being lazy in offering Salah or committing sins such as lying, backbiting, tale-telling; then we should try to prevent her from committing these sins rather than committing backbiting and criticising her in her absence without a reason. We should advise her very affectionately and politely, and gain the treasure of rich reward in the

afterlife. If we advise someone sincerely, then it will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ certainly be beneficial. And why wouldn’t it be beneficial as Allah Almighty has announced in the Glorious Quran that advice produces benefit. Therefore, it is stated in the 55 th Ayah of Surah Az-Zariyaat, part 27:

وَ ذَكِّرْ فَاِنَّ الذِّكْرٰى تَنْفَعُ الْمُؤْمِنِیْنَ(۵۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And advise, that advising benefits the Muslims. (Part 27, Surah Az-Zariyaat, Ayah 55)

Let’s make an intention that if we see someone indulged in sin, we will try to reform her politely اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Along with reforming others, we will also try to reform ourselves اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By making individual efforts upon our household, we will develop a Madani environment in our home اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی devoted their lives in trying to reform Muslims. Some accomplished the sacred task of reforming Muslims through their effective pieces of writings, some through their inspirational speeches, and some through both. Being impressed through these Madani pearls, non-Muslims embrace Islam whereas countless sinful people attain the privilege of repenting. In this relation, let us listen to a faith-enlightening parable.

Strange event of ‘Utbah

It is stated on page No. 67 of the book Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: (Before his repentance), ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam was famously known as a drunkard and transgressor. One day, he attended the gathering of Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who at that time was mentioning the commentary of the following blessed Ayah:

اَلَمْ یَاْنِ لِلَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَنْ تَخْشَعَ قُلُوْبُهُمْ لِذِكْرِ اللّٰهِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Has the time not come for the believers to humble their hearts to Allah’s remembrance. (Part 27, Surah Al-Hadeed, Ayah 16)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه delivered such effective and heart-touching Tafseer of this Ayah that attendees were moved to tears. Standing up, a young man said, ‘O believer! Will Allah Almighty also accept the repentance of a grave sinner like me if I repent?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Yes. Allah Almighty will also forgive your sins.’ When ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam heard this, he began to scream with his body trembling and face turning pale. Then, he fell unconscious. After he regained consciousness, Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه approached him and recited the following couplets (whose translation is as follows):

1. O young man who has disobeyed Allah Almighty! Do you know what is the punishment for disobedience?

2. For disobedient people, there is Hell; and on the Day of Judgement, there will be severe wrath of Allah Almighty for them.

3. If you are satisfied upon the fire of Hell, then indeed keep committing sins. Otherwise, give up sins.

4. In exchange for your sins, you have pawned your life. Now strive to liberate it.

‘Utbah screamed again and fell unconscious. After he recovered, he asked, ‘O Shaykh! Will the Merciful Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept the repentance of a despicable person like me?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘The forgiving Lord Almighty accepts the repentance of an oppressor.’ At that time, ‘Utbah raised his head and made three Du’as:

1. O Allah Almighty! If You have forgiven my sins and accepted my repentance, then bestow upon me such a high level of intellect and memory that I never neglect whatever Islamic knowledge and Holy Quran I hear.

2. O Allah Almighty! Bless me with such a pleasant voice which turns even a hard heart into a soft one.

3. O Allah Almighty! Bless me with Halal sustenance by such means which I cannot even think about.

Allah Almighty accepted all three Du’as of ‘Utbah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with a very strong memory and wisdom. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the Holy Quran, sinners would repent by listening to his recitation. Every day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would get a bowl of gravy and two loaves of bread (from Halal sustenance) at his home. No one knew who brings these things and this practice continued his entire life. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 67)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard what a wonderful way of conveying the call to righteousness Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had. How beautifully he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fulfilled the obligation of reforming the creation of Allah Almighty. Through his saintly insight, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه enlightened the heart of a sinner. Moreover, Allah Almighty not only bestowed upon Sayyiduna ‘Utba-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه a status of sainthood but also conferred incredible rewards and favours on him before his demise.

The abovementioned parable contains a lot of Madani pearls especially for those preachers who say that we did deliver Bayan but it had no impact upon the listeners; Islamic sisters of this area are very hard-hearted; nothing softens their hearts, etc. Remember! Only such a person will make these types of statements who considers herself to be needless of any reform.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه says, ‘If there is no impact of Dars-o-Bayan upon the people, then instead of assuming others to be hard-hearted, consider it your own lack of sincerity and perform Istighfar [repentance].’

Our job is only to convey the call to righteousness in an appropriate manner to other Islamic sisters through making individual efforts. Allah Almighty grants them with the privilege of acting upon it. Therefore, do not lose your heart over witnessing no outcome out of your efforts, but rather, deem it the lack of your sincerity and continue your individual efforts seeking the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Moreover, keep making Du’a to Allah Almighty.

Along with this, ponder over the fact that having been disappointed, are we making Satan’s vicious plan successful? Control yourself, overcome your disappointment and resume your individual efforts. If only we all develop this mindset. Moreover, being overwhelmed with the devotion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and fear of Allah Almighty, may we become such preachers that listening to our Bayan, Islamic sisters observe reform in their lives, and the sins being committed extensively come to an end.

It is the blessing of the sincerity of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه that the words he speaks are highly motivational and spellbinding which cause people to feel remorse over their past sins and they attain the privilege to seek repentance. They are blessed with consistency in offering Salah; they become passionate for carrying out good deeds.

He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه faced many hardships and challenges before and after starting the Madani movement for the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, but he did not lose courage. Rather, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is even stood firmly today and propagating the message of Islam in an excellent manner. Let us listen to the brief introduction of religious services of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat:

Religious services of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

The concrete proof of the historic and remarkable achievements of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is that whatever department was required to be established for Madani activities, he went ahead to establish it. Today, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Madani activities are ongoing in more or less 105 departments.

For example, to enlighten Madani children with the luminosity of the Holy Quran, ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat)’ is formed. In order to provide children with worldly education along with religious education and upbringing, ‘Daar-ul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat)’ is formed. In order to enrich adult Islamic sisters, ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat’ is formed. For Shar’i guidance, ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat’ is formed. For making female Islamic scholars, ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah (lil-Banaat)’ is formed. For the propagation of the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and for providing reformative books, ‘Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ is formed.

In order to convey the Madani message across the globe, ‘Madani Channel’ is formed. For spiritual cure and to reply to the thousands of letters and e-mails that come from across the globe on monthly basis, ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah’ is formed. In order to spread the call towards righteousness among Islamic sisters, separate departments are established for them. For making Muslims practice the Islamic teachings, ‘the gift of Madani In’amaat’ has been given. For trying to reform Islamic sisters of the entire world, thousands of Ijtima’aat [congregations]’ are held in various countries. A huge number of Islamic sisters gather in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and Madani Muzakarahs. Similarly, Majlis ‘Special Islamic sisters’ has been established for special Islamic sisters (mute, deaf and blind Islamic sisters). Moreover, ‘different level Mushawarats’ have also been formed.

After establishing all these departments serving the blessed Sunnah, the whole system has been handed over to Markazi Majlis-e-Shura. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه appointed his beloved son, Al-Haaj Abu Usayd Ubayd Raza Attari Madani دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه as his successor and also provided him with Madani Tarbiyyah [edified him] to take the Madani activities forward along with the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami. From time to time, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه also reviews the progress of the Madani activities and also blesses with the pearls of reformation where required. Other than this, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه through writing books, booklets and conducting Madani Muzakarahs also strives immensely to make the Muslim Ummah tread on the path of Sunnah. Out of his literary efforts, one remarkable effort is the book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’. In this book, Ameer-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned various priceless

Madani pearls regarding the need of calling people towards righteousness, the excellence of calling people towards righteousness and harm of giving up call towards righteousness. This book is a chapter of the 2 nd volume of ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’. This book is suggested for Madani Dars.

In addition to these religious services of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, his steadfastness upon worship which include being punctual on Faraaid; offering Nawafil such as Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen; persistently keeping Nafl [supererogatory] Siyam mostly throughout the year; recitation of the Holy Quran and acting upon Sunnahs and Mustahabbat [preferable actions] is exemplary.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! We just heard about the religious services of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Listening to it would have also driven our hearts to convey the call to righteousness and serve Islam, or it would have increased our passion to increase it [conveying call to righteousness] to a greater degree. In order to increase this Madani passion further, let us also associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and take part practically in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah along with persuading others also to do so.

One of the 8 Madani activities – “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima”

Dear Islamic sisters! One of the 8 Zayli Halqahs Madani activities is the “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there are hundreds of benefits in this life along with the next life if this Madani activity is carried out. For example:

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat you can publicise the Sunnah of meeting and greeting Muslims.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat valuable Madani pearls packed with religious knowledge can be transmitted to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat tremendously contribute to help make Muslims punctual in their Salah who otherwise are not punctual.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat we publicise the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and increase the number of its admirers.

٭ Prayers are accepted in weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat.

٭ Along with all these benefits you will hear Sunnah-inspiring speeches regarding the awesome biographies of the Illustrious Sahabah Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and honourable saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani parable

Given below is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Sargodha, Punjab (Pakistan). I was not a practicing Muslim before I associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I was the epitome of fashion and fond of visiting public parks because of the company of my modern friends. I would neither offer Salah nor keep fast. As for Islamic veiling, I was allergic to it. All I would do was to watch movies on TV and VCR. I was so headstrong that I did not listen to anyone. I was a student of 1st year in those days.

One day, someone gifted me a cassette of Sunnah-inspiring speech named ‘ Wudu and Science ’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. The speech was informative and very interesting. Inspired by listening to the speech, I started attending the locally-held Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami for Islamic sisters. The blessings of Madani environment started brightening my

dull life. With the passage of time I succeeded in repenting of my bad habits, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I started wearing Madani Burqa’ (veil) after some time; my family members, relatives and friends were all very astonished at this amazing change. They all felt as if they had been dreaming but it was a reality.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Now I give Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat at my home. Besides it, I also make efforts to step up Madani activities with other Islamic sisters. It has become my routine to fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily and to submit it every month. One day, I was blessed with a great favour for which I should always remain grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When I went to sleep at night, fortune smiled on me. I dreamt that the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami was going on. I was sitting near a window through which breeze was coming. I involuntarily looked out of the window and saw clouds in the sky. I started reciting Salam-‘Alan-Nabi spontaneously:

Ay saba Mustafa say keh dayna

Gham kay maaray Salam kehtay hayn

Suddenly, a very handsome personage with a luminous face wearing white clothes and a green ‘Imamah on his head came, smiling. I was lost in seeing the blessed face. I then heard a voice. ‘He is the Holy Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم .’ I woke up. Overwhelmed, I was moved to tears on my good fortune. I wished I had seen the blessed face again and again. Every night, I still sleep reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi with the hope that fortune may again smile on me.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! As much as conveying call towards righteousness is important amongst Muslims today has perhaps never been as important before; because today, the majority of Muslims are far away from being a

practicing Muslim. While drawing people’s attention towards the fast-spreading evils in the society, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه bestows Madani pearls to people even in Madani Muzakarah for igniting the passion amongst the Muslim Ummah for calling people towards righteousness. Carrying out virtuous deeds has become extremely difficult for Nafs whereas committing sins has become extremely easy. Lack of Islamic practices of Muslims is shaking up those who have a devotion to Islam indicating that Madani Daurah [area visit] is also needed at those places. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat is also required to spread teachings of Holy Quran at those places. If only the blessings of Madani In’amaat could also prevail in those areas.

Unfortunately! The excessive struggles of meeting the needs and seeking comforts have made the majority of Muslims sheer heedless of Fikr-e-Aakhirat (contemplating on the Hereafter). Ponder over the fact that Islamic sisters are indulged in the deeds leading to Hell; who will persuade them into carrying out noble deeds leading to Paradise? We ourselves have to make efforts to try to reform one another. We have to increase the yearning for calling others towards righteousness. Therefore, become habitual of making individual efforts because individual effort carries a vital role in conveying call towards righteousness.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of the noble act of individual efforts, we would receive numerous blessings of this world and the Hereafter too. For persuasion, let us listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and try to develop the passion of making individual efforts in ourselves:

Three sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم pertaining to the persuasion of calling towards righteousness

1. By Allah Almighty! If Allah Almighty blesses even a single person with guidance through you, then this is better for you than red camels .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1311, Hadees 2406)

2. One guiding to any virtue has a reward similar to that of its doer.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1050, Hadees 1893)

3. One inviting towards Hidayah [i.e. guidance] and goodness will be granted reward equal to all those who follow it [i.e. that guidance and goodness]. And this will cause no reduction in their reward. And one inviting towards ignorance will have sins equal to the sins of all the people following that ignorance. And this will cause no reduction in their sins. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1438, Hadees 2674)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It is learned that whether the call to righteousness is conveyed individually or collectively, it brings numerous worldly and religious blessings for the ones who convey it and act upon it after listening to it. Therefore, develop a strong desire and yearning for good deeds. Become more active in motivating others to become Salah-offering individuals. Teach Salah to those who do not know how to offer it correctly. If even a single person starts offering Salah due to our individual efforts, then we will receive the reward of every Salah she offers.

Join Dawat-e-Islami’s Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Balighat [Islamic sisters]) . Learn Holy Quran yourself and persuade others to learn also. If anyone learns the Holy Quran from us, we will also gain reward every time she recites it. Act upon Sunnahs yourself and motivate others to do so too. If we teach a Sunnah to anyone, we will also gain its reward every time she acts upon it اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat [Islamic sisters]):

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to learn about Shar’i rulings and gain Islamic knowledge, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and enrol on ‘Aalim course at Jami’a-tul-Madinah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) approximately 265 Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) have been established at home and abroad. In these Jami’aat, approximately 16,217 female students are receiving free education of Dars-e-Nizami (Aalimah Course).

Approximately 3,600 Islamic sisters have completed Dars-e-Nizami (Aalimah Course), whereas approximately 414 Islamic sisters have completed ‘Faizan-e-Shari’ah Course’.

Hundreds of Islamic sisters are serving Islam in administration and teaching in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters). Thousands of Islamic sisters are performing eight Madani activities by carrying out different responsibilities and are propagating the call towards righteousness. Let’s get the Islamic sisters of our family enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) and make them the continuous source of reward for us.

Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home

1. When leaving the home, recite this Du’a:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَـوَ کَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُـوَّ ۃَ اِلَّا بِاللّٰہِ

Translation: With the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is neither power nor strength without Him.(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of reciting this Du’a’, the person who recited it will remain on the right path and will be safe from calamities besides being blessed with Divine help.

2. Du’a before entering the home:

اَللّٰھُمَّ ا ِ نِّیۤ اَسْأَ لُكَ خَیْرَ الْمَوْلَجِ وَ خَیْرَ الْمَخْرَ جِ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ لَجْنَا وَ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ خَرَجْنَا وَ عَلَی اللّٰہِ رَ بِّنَا تَوَکَّلْنَا

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I ask You for the goodness of coming and exiting. We entered (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and exited (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we put our trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Ibid, Hadees 5096)

After reciting this Du’a, make Salam to the household, and present Salam to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْه وَاٰله وَسَلَّم . Then recite Surah Al-Ikhlaas. There will be blessings in your sustenance and the house will be protected from disputes, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. Make Salam to the Mahram and Mahrimaat (e.g. the mother, the father, the brother, the sister, children and the husband etc.)

4. If anyone enters the home without mentioning the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, e.g. without saying بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ, Satan also enters with her.

5. If one enters a home where no one is present (even one’s own home) she should say:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْنَا وَ عَلٰی عِبَادِ اللّٰہِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ

Translation: Salam be upon us and the righteous bondmen of Allah.

The angels will reply to this Salam. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 682) One can also say the following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ

Translation: O Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Salam be upon you.

The sacred and blessed soul of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is present in the homes of Muslims. (Sharh Ash-Shifa lil-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 118)

6. Before you enter someone’s home, say ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ! May I come in? ’

7. If permission for entry is not given, return happily without getting annoyed. Perhaps they may not have given permission due to some compulsion.

8. When someone knocks on your door, it is a Sunnah to ask who it is. The person who knocked should mention his name, for example, Muhammad

Ilyas. Instead of telling the name, saying such things as Madinah! ‘It’s me’, ‘open the door ’ etc. is not a Sunnah.

9. After you have mentioned your name, stand at a side so that you do not look inside the house as soon as the door opens.

10. It is prohibited to glance into someone’s home. Some houses are higher than the other adjoining ones. Therefore, those living in higher houses should take great care when looking out from the balcony or window of their house.

11. When you go to someone’s home, do not unnecessarily criticize their home arrangements, as this could be hurtful to them.

12. When leaving, make Du’a for the household, thank them, make Salam, and gift them with a Sunnah-Inspiring booklet, if possible.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

