اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Saintly Miracles of Ghaus-e-Pak رَحۡ ـ مَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Azeez Dabbaagh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is beyond any doubt that reciting Salat upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most superior action of all the acts of worship. This is a Zikr of those blessed angels who dwell in the surroundings of Jannah and when they recite Salat upon the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, by the blessings of this, Jannah becomes spacious. (Al-Abreez, vol. 2, pp. 338)

جائیں نہ جب تک غُلام خُلد ہے سب پر حرام مِلک تو ہے آپ کا تم پہ کروروں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A woman of Baghdad who was very impressed by the fame of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه decided to leave her son in his care. She approached the grand court of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said, ‘Accept this boy, he likes you and has deep devotion towards you.’ Sayyiduna Ghaus-e- A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه accepted the child and started to teach him piety, spirituality etc. One day his mother came to see her son and found him thin and pale and eating bread made of barley. She flew into a rage and approached in the court of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and found him eating chicken and keeping the bones in a vessel. She exclaimed, ‘While you eat your chicken my poor son, whom I left in your care, has nothing but a piece of dry bread!’

Listening to this, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه placed his hand over the bones of the chicken and said, ‘ قُوۡمِيۡ بِاِذۡنِ اللّٰهِ الَّذِيۡ يُحۡيِي الۡعِظَامَ وَهِيَ رَمِيۡم ’ i.e., rise by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the One who gives life . The chicken immediately became alive and started to cackle. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then turned to the woman and said, ‘When your son will reach this stage, then he will be able to eat all that he wants.’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 128)

وہ کہہ کر قُم بِاِذنِ الله جِلا دیتے ہیں مُردوں کو بہت مشہور ہے احیائے مَوتٰی غوثِ اعظم کا

جِلایا استخوانِ مرغ کو دَستِ کرم رکھ کر بیاں کیا ہو سکے احیائے مَوتٰی غوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! What a great eminence Sayyiduna Ghaus -e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه occupies that when he orders any chicken to come to life by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it comes to life. Remember! Life and death are certainly under the authority of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills to bestow the power of revival to His chosen blessed Prophet عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام or pious saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then this is not difficult for Him to do so. If we admit someone else bringing a dead person back to life by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will not

affect our faith. If someone, being overpowered by Satan, made up his mind that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not granted the ability and power to raise the dead back to life to anybody else, then this ideology and perception is contrary to the teachings of the Glorious Quran. It has been stated clearly in the Holy Quran that Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلٰى نَبِ ـ يِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام cured the sick and revived the dead. It is stated in Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, verse 49 that Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said:

وَ اُبۡرِیُٔ الۡاَکۡمَہَ وَ الۡاَبۡرَصَ وَ اُحۡیِ الۡمَوۡتٰی بِاِذۡنِ اللّٰہِ ۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And I give cure to the inborn blind and the leper, and I give life to the dead, by the command of Allah.

(Part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, verse 49)

Did you notice? Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام is clearly and openly proclaiming that he gives eyesight to the inborn blind, cures the lepers, and even gives life to the dead by virtue of the divinely-bestowed power.

Dear Islamic brothers! The most universally acclaimed saint of all times and the most celebrated and the most popular and revered saint of Islam, Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی is that beloved and closest saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who is the leader and head of all the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی whose blessed personality is worth respecting for all types of people whether it is the general public, eminent figures, elite class or learned people living anywhere in the world. The saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه which are recorded are innumerable, even Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed him with greater saintly miracles and favours as compared to the other blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: By comparison with other blessed saints, Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی has no parallel in his great eminence, dignity and rank; even some spiritual

Shaykhs have stated: The consecutive saintly miracles of Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی are the similitude of the chain of pearls when it breaks, one by one the pearls begin to fall. In short, the saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه are too many to be counted.

The blessed personality of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a great example of saintly miracles and unique excellence. It is the blessing of his blessed name that whenever it is pronounced, one gets rid of a poisonous animal. Hence, it is quoted that when anybody comes across a lion and he pronounces the name of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, that lion will not attack him. (Nuzhat-ul-Khaatir)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is mentioned on page 36 of Karamaat-e-Sahabah [a 342-page publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami]: An extraordinary occurrence that surpasses all known human powers which does not normally occur, if it is manifested by any pious saint it is called a saintly miracle (Karamah) whereas it is called ‘Irhaas’ if such a thing is manifested by a Prophet before [the declaration of] his Prophethood; and if it is manifested after the declaration of Prophet-hood, then it is called a Mu’jizah (miracle). If a similar wonder is manifested by a Mu`min (true believer) it is called Ma’oonat. If such a supernatural manifestation is exhibited by some Kafir (unbeliever) or a transgressor, then it is termed as Istidraaj . (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 56-58)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to some brief information about the family life of Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی and about his great saintly miracles and parables so that we develop true devotion to the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in our hearts.

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡاَکۡرَم was born on 1 st Ramadan 470 AH on Monday in Jeelan. His name is ‘Abdul Qaadir & Kunyah [filial appellation] is ‘Abu Muhammad’. Muhiyyuddin, Mahboob-e-Subhani, Ghaus-e-A’zam, Ghaus-us-Saqalayn etc. are his titles. His father’s name was Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his mother’s name was Umm-ul-Khayr Fatimah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a Sayyid from both his parents i.e. Hasani from his father and Husayni from his mother.

تُو حُسَینی حَسَنی کیوں نہ مُحِیُّ الدِّیں ہو

اے خِضَر مَجمَعِ بَحرَین ہے چشمہ تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The blessed birth of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی is surrounded many amazing events. It was a unique phenomenon that the age of the blessed mother of Ghaus-e-A’zam was sixty when Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came into this world, an age when women are usually unable to bear children. This was just the special favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

My dear Islamic brothers! Our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a Wali by birth and this is evident from a number of Karamaat manifested during his childhood:

When Ghaus-e-A’zam’s mother used to say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه after sneezing, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would reply from the womb saying يَرۡحَمُكِ اللّٰه . Sayyiduna Ghaus-e- A’zam عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡاَکۡرَم came into this world on Monday, the first of Ramadan-ul- Mubarak at the time of dawn. His lips were moving slowly and he was heard saying ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ On the day of his birth, 1100 boys were born in Jeelan and all of them became saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Ghaus-e-A’zam عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡاَکۡرَم

kept the first fast on the day he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not feed on his mother’s milk until sunset. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept all the fasts of that month.

When Ghaus-e-A’zam عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡاَکۡرَم was sent to a saint to recite ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the age of five years, he recited ‘ اَعُوۡذُ ’ and ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ and then recited from the first part to the 18 th part of the Holy Quran. The saint said, ‘Son! Continue reciting.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘This is all what I memorized because my mother also memorized this much. When I was in my mother’s womb, my mother would recite up to the 18 th part of the Glorious Quran so I had memorized this much by listening to her.’

تُو ہے وہ غوث کہ ہر غوث ہے شیدا تیرا

تُو ہے وہ غیث کہ ہر غیث ہے پیاسا تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu Muhammad ‘Abdullah Bin Ahmad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was thin, of medium height, with a broad chest, thick beard, a long neck, of wheat colour, his eyebrows were connected with each other, dark eyes, having a powerful voice and [a saint] of great learning.

(Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 174)

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a very unique way of acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen. His profound eagerness to seek knowledge can be realized from his experiences mentioned as follows: After having lessons from my teachers, I used to go to the jungle where I used to continue my studies in the deserts and waste-lands whether it was day or night; windstorm or pouring rain; heat or cold. I had a very small ‘Imamah (Islamic turban) on my head in those days

and I would eat little vegetables to overcome my hunger and sometimes I wouldn’t find even these vegetables. When I saw others in search of food, I would return empty-handed, as I did not feel it appropriate to eat as it may deprive others whom I thought needed food more than me and I would continue my studies and sleep hungry on the ground filled with pebbles.

(Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 10)

While studying in Baghdad, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه faced many hardships and was severely tested. Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی himself used to say: The hardship and difficulties that I faced in Baghdad during my studies were so severe that if they had to be placed on a mountain, then even the mountain would split in two. It is the favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that I passed safely from these dense jungles.’ (Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp. 10)

محمد کا رسولوں میں ہے جیسے مرتبہ اعلٰی

ہے افضل اولیاء میں یوں ہی رُتبہ غوثِ اعظم کا

عطا کی ہے بُلندی حق نے اہلُ الله کے جھنڈوں کو

مگر سب سے کیا اُونچا پھریرا غوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have observed the passion of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained steadfast in the face of all tribulations that came his way during his learning period. Certainly, seeking the ‘Ilm-e-Deen is a great privilege; many advantages are mentioned in the blessed Ahadees for those who acquire knowledge.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Whoever sets off to gain knowledge of his religion in the morning or evening, is amongst the people of paradise.’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, pp. 61, vol. 10, Hadees 28702)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Our blessed Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, in the pursuit of knowledge of Deen (Islam) embarked on long journeys, his entire life was completely devoted to showing true faithfulness and submission to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, obedience to parents and truthfulness; besides that the praiseworthy virtues like loyalty, allegiance and commitment had fully adorned his life. His perseverance and determination upon performing deeds according to the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was firmer and stronger than a mountain. Inspired and spell-bound by his awe-struck virtues, hundreds of non-believers embraced Islam on his hands and countless sinners sought repentance of their sinful lives. Hence, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said about himself that more than 500 non-believers embraced Islam on my hands and more than one hundred thousand (100000) thieves, transgressors, innovators and sinful people sought repentance.

(Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 184)

Let’s listen to a remarkable parable of Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی when he was travelling in the pursuit of knowledge and how the spiritual gaze of this blessed saint brought about a revolution in the life of thieves.

Sarkar-e-Baghdad, Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I left for Baghdad from Jeelan along with a caravan. On the way to Baghdad, the caravan was attacked by sixty robbers who started snatching valuables from the travellers of the caravan. They plundered everyone but no robber asked me [Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] for anything because I seemed to have nothing. Then a robber asked carelessly while passing by me: ‘O boy! Do you also have anything?’ I bravely replied: ‘Yes! I have forty dinars.’ The robber considered it a joke and moved ahead. After a short while, another robber asked the same question while passing by me, and I gave the same reply. Both robbers informed their chief about me .

Calling me [Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ], the chief asked about the dinars. I gave the same reply as before. The chief searched me and really found forty dinars hidden in an inside pocket of my Qamees (shirt). All the

people were amazed to see my truthfulness. When asked about the reason for telling the truth even in this situation, I replied, ‘Before I departed, my mother had made me promise to tell the truth in every circumstance, and never to speak a lie. I cannot break the promise I have made to my mother.’ Listening to this, the chief of robbers burst into tears and said, ‘Alas! You have sincerely fulfilled the promise you made to your mother but I have been going against the promises for years I have made to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . ’

Impressed by the sincerity and piety of this young traveller of the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the chief of robbers repented of his sins. His fellow thieves also repented and said, ‘O chief! You were our leader when we were robbers, now you will also lead us to the path of righteousness.’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 167)

نگاہِ ولی میں وہ تاثیر دیکھی بدلتی ہزاروں کی تقدیر دیکھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our respected Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would never tell a lie and nor would he ever commit the sin of breaking a promise. Specially those people should seek the admonitory lesson from this parable who claim to be the devotees and followers of Ghaus-e-A’zam but they speak lies and do not refrain from breaking promises and then these germs transfer into their children and sometimes even those people who have a Madani mind-set yet Satan makes them fall into the epidemics of lying and breaking of promises. For example, when sometimes they are persuaded for any Madani activity, some unwise people say ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ without making any good intention whereas in their hearts, they have no such intention to perform that Madani activity. Remember! Warnings of dire consequences have been mentioned at many places in the blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing lessons of warnings:

1. Hold on to the truth, because truth leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Jannah; a man continues speaking the truth and

1. striving for truth, until he is written before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as very truthful (Siddeeq). Beware of lying, for lying leads to sin, and sin leads to the fire; a man continues lying and striving for falsehood until he is written before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as a great liar. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

2. فَمَنۡ اَخۡفَرَ مُسۡلِمًا فَعَلَيۡهِ لَعۡنَةُ اللّٰهِ وَالمَلاَئِكَةِ وَالنَّاسِ اَجۡمَعِينَ لَا يُقۡبَلُ مِنۡهُ صَرۡفٌ وَّلَا عَدۡلٌ: If a Muslim breaches an agreement and breaks his promise, upon him is the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels and all the human beings. His Fard is not accepted, nor any of his Nafl . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 370, Hadees 3179)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Malik Zayyaal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I was standing in the Madrasah of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of his home with a staff in his blessed hand. A thought crossed my mind, if only Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could show a miracle through this staff! As the thought entered my mind he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه smilingly looked at me and planted his staff into the ground. Suddenly a kind of luminosity emanated from the staff and reached the sky, illuminating the surroundings. That intense radiance remained illuminated for a long time, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took the staff out of the ground then it turned to its original shape. Afterwards, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Thus O Zayyaal! You wanted this, didn’t you?’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 150)

Once at night Sayyiduna Shaykh Ahmad Rifaa’i and Sayyiduna ‘Adi Bin Musafir رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were with Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه when they visited the luminous grave of Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . It was very dark at that time. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was walking in front of them. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed by a stone, a piece of wood, wall or a grave, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would gesture with his blessed hand, and they became illuminated like the moon. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did the same all the time on

the way, until all these blessed people by the light of his blessed hand reached the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(Qalaaid-ul-Jawahir, pp.77)

مصطفٰی کے تنِ بے سایہ کا سایہ دیکھا جس نے دیکھا مری جاں جلوہ زیبا تیرا

Shaykh Abul Hasan Qarashi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Shaykh Abul Hasan ‘Ali Bin Hayti and I were present before Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhiyyuddin ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی in his Madrasah. A renowned trader named Abu Ghalib Fadlullah came to him and humbly said: O my chief! Your maternal grandfather (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) has said that the person who is invited, should accept the invitation. It is for this reason I am here so that you attend the celebration at my home. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: If I get permission, I will come. Then having meditated for some time he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Yes, I will come.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mounted on his mule, Shaykh ‘Ali held the right rein of the mule and I held the left one and started going towards his home. When we reached there, we saw that the Islamic scholars, Mashaaikh of Baghdad and dignitaries had already been present there, then the Dastar-Khuwan (dining mat) was laid and all sorts of food were placed on it. Furthermore, two people brought a very big box that was closed. That box was placed on one side of the Dastar-Khuwan, then the host Abu Ghalib granted permission to start eating the meal.

Sayyiduna Shaykh Muhiyyuddin ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی was meditating, therefore, he neither started himself nor permitted anyone to eat, hence no one started eating the meal. Due to the awe of Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the state of the people present was as though birds had been sitting on their heads. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه pointed towards me and Shaykh ‘Ali asked us to bring that box and open it. When the box was brought and opened in front of him, the son of Abu Ghalib was found in it and besides being born blind he was suffering from a joint pain, leprosy and paralysis. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him: ‘ قُمۡ بِاِذۡنِ اللّٰهِ ’, i.e. Stand up, by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ;

the order had just been made and the boy not only started running, and regained his vision but he recovered so well that it seemed as if he had not suffered from any disease.

Shaykh Abul Hasan Qarashi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When I mentioned this parable of Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu Sa’d Qaylwi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he said, ‘Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه cures those who are born blind and those suffering from vitiligo (chronic condition when the skins loses its pigment) and he gives life to the dead by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 123)

Sayyiduna Shaykh Khidr Moosili رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I have been in the sacred service of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for 13 years, during this period of time, I saw many of his miracles. One of them is that a patient, who was declared incurable by the physician, would come to him and would recover from that condition. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would make Du’a for his health and would gently pass his blessed hand over his body, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would immediately cure him. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 147)

One day Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی was delivering a Bayan (in his Madrasah) and it began to rain causing problems for attendees; hence, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه raised his hand and said to the clouds: ‘ اَنَا اَجۡ ـ مَعُ وَ اَنۡتِ تَفۡرِقُ ’ i.e., I have been assembling people here and you are dispersing them . Thereafter the rain immediately stopped, nevertheless, it continued pouring outside of the Madrasah but the attendees of the gathering were not affected by it.

گناہوں کے مرض نے کر دیا ہے نیم جاں مجھ کو تمہِیں آ کے کرو اب کوئی چارہ یا شہِ بغداد

مجھے اچھا بنا دو مُرشِدی بے شک یقینًا ہیں مِرے حالات تم پر آشکارا یا شہِ بغداد

A wicked man fell in love with a woman who was a devotee of Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani; that woman once happened to go towards a cave of a mountain for some work, that wicked man saw her, chased her and even caught her, she began to cry for help calling out to Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ; listening to her cries, Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jeelani قُـدِّسَ سِـرُّہُ الـرَّبَّـانِی threw his wooden sandal towards the direction of the cave and it repeatedly hit that wicked man who then died. That woman arrived in the court of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه along with that blessed wooden sandal and related the whole incident.

(Tafreeh-ul-Khaatir, pp. 37)

غوثِ اعظم بَمَنِ بے سروساماں مَدَدے قِبلۂ دِیں مَدَدے کَعبۂ ایماں مَدَدے

Translation: O honourable spiritual guide of the Muslims! Help me. O honourable spiritual guide of those who believe! Help me.

Somebody may have this evil suspicion in his mind after listening to this parable that how can Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه be called out for help at the time of trouble, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is no longer alive and on the other hand another evil suspicion may enter the mind that it is Shirk (an act of polytheism) to call out to the deceased people for help. Remember! Calling out to deceased people for help is not an act of Shirk. In this connection, let’s listen to the Madani pearls stated by Mufti ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی ; اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this evil suspicion will be eradicated for good:

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: Once Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked in the Exalted court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ), show me how You will resurrect the dead?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘Ibraheem, don’t you have faith in this?’ Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘Indeed I do? But I wish to observe this spectacle with my own eyes to solace my heart.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ then said, ‘Raise four birds and nourish them well by feeding them, then slaughter them and make minced meat from their flesh and place a little portion of it on top of some mountains in

your surroundings. Then call upon these birds to you, those birds will come back to life and rush to you and thus you will witness the spectacle of resurrection of the dead with your very own eyes.’

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ described this event in Surah Al-Baqarah of the Holy Quran in the following words:

وَ اِذۡ قَالَ اِبۡرٰہٖمُ رَبِّ اَرِنِیۡ کَیۡفَ تُحۡیِ الۡمَوۡتٰی ؕ قَالَ اَوَ لَمۡ تُؤۡمِنۡ ؕ قَالَ بَلٰی وَلٰکِنۡ لِّیَطۡمَئِنَّ قَلۡبِیۡ ؕ قَالَ فَخُذۡ اَرۡبَعَۃً مِّنَ الطَّیۡرِ فَصُرۡ ہُنَّ اِلَیۡکَ ثُمَّ اجۡعَلۡ عَلٰی کُلِّ جَبَلٍ مِّنۡہُنَّ جُزۡءًا ثُمَّ ادۡعُہُنَّ یَاۡتِیۡنَکَ سَعۡیًا ؕ وَاعۡلَمۡ اَنَّ اللّٰہَ عَزِ یۡزٌ حَکِیۡمٌ ﴿۲۶۰﴾٪

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when Ibraheem said, ‘My Lord! Show me how You will give life to the dead’. He said, ‘Are you not certain (of it)?’ Ibraheem said, ‘Surely yes, indeed? But because I wish that my heart may be satisfied’. He said, ‘Then take four birds (as pets) and cause them to become familiar to you, then place a part of each of them on separate mountains, then call them – they will come flying towards you; and know well that Allah is Almighty, Wise.’ (Part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 260)

Having quoted the abovementioned blessed Quranic verse, Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This point proves that calling out to the dead is not polytheism, because when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ordered for the dead birds to be called and when such a dignified Prophet عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام called the dead birds, then this can never ever be polytheism at all, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will never command any one towards polytheism and nor can any Prophet (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) ever commit an act of polytheism. Therefore, when calling the dead birds is not polytheism, then how can calling the deceased beloveds of Allah and the martyrs be polytheism! Those people who say that calling the deceased beloveds of Allah and the martyrs is polytheism, in fact, falsely accuse that the people who exclaim the slogan of ‘ Ya Ghaus ’ as ‘polytheist’, they should ponder upon the light of guidance from the above Quranic event so that they may follow the true path of the Ahl-us-Sunnah. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, pp. 57-59 with some minor changes)

Hopefully the evil suspicion from Satan would have been eradicated because a Muslim believes in the Glorious Quran and he does not accept any argument or evidence against the Glorious Quran.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written on page 5 of his booklet ‘King of Jinns’:

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bazzaar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘One Friday, I was heading towards the Masjid with Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . I thought that how strange it is that whenever I go to the Masjid on Fridays with my Murshid, people gather around to say Salam to him and to shake his hand and it becomes extremely difficult to continue walking; but today, no one is even paying attention. As soon as this thought occurred to me, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked at me with a smile. Suddenly, people started rushing to shake hands with Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . There were so many people that a huge crowd gathered between me and my kind Murshid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Now I thought to myself it was much better before. As soon as this came to my mind, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘O ‘Umar! It was you who desired the crowd. Don’t you know that the hearts of the people are in my fist! If I want, I can pull their hearts towards me and if I want, I can turn them away.’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 149)

کُنجِیَاں دِل کی خُدا نے تجھے دِیں ایسی کر

کہ یہ سینہ ہو مَحبَّت کا خَزینہ تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Bishr Qarzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Once, I was [travelling] with a business caravan along with 14 sugar loaded camels. We all camped in a terrifying jungle during the night. In the first part of the night, four of my loaded camels got lost. They could not be found despite my tireless efforts. The caravan left without me. My cameleer also remained behind with me.

The following morning, I recalled that my Murshid, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had once said to me, ‘Whenever you are afflicted with an adversity or worry, call me; اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be relieved from that adversity.’ Therefore, I cried for help saying, ‘O Shaykh ‘Abdal Qaadir! I have lost my camels!’ Right away, I saw a saint, dressed in white clothes, standing upon a small hill towards the east. The saint gestured and I approached him. As soon as I approached him along with my cameleer, he disappeared. We began to look around in a surprised and confused state. All of a sudden, we saw our four lost camels sitting at the bottom of the hill. We caught them and re-joined the caravan. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 196)

آپ جَیسا پِیر ہوتے کیا غَرَض دَر دَر پِھروں

آپ سے سب کُچھ مِلا یاغوثِ اَعظَم دَست گیر

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! After reading the previous incident, someone might think that we must only ask Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for help and none other than Him because when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the ultimate power to help, why should we turn to anyone else for help? This is a very dangerous trick of Satan with which he has led many people astray. In fact, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not forbidden to ask help from others, look in the Holy Quran where Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has permitted us, in various blessed verses, to ask others for help. In fact, despite being All-powerful, Allah عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ has Himself provided motivation to His bondmen for helping the true religion. It is stated in the Holy Quran:

اِنۡ تَنۡصُرُ و ا اللّٰہَ یَنۡصُرۡکُمۡ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: If you help the religion of Allah, Allah will help you. (Part 26, Surah Muhammad, verse 7)

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام asked his followers for help. It is stated in the Holy Quran:

قَالَ عِیۡسَی ابۡنُ مَـرۡ یَمَ لِلۡحَوَ ارِ یّٖنَ

مَنۡ اَنۡصَارِیۡۤ اِلَی اللّٰہِ ؕ قَالَ الۡحَوَ ارِ یُّوۡنَ نَحۡنُ اَنۡصَارُ اللّٰہِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Isa the son of Maryam said to the disciples, ‘Who will help me, being on the side of Allah?’ The disciples said, ‘We are the helpers of Allah’s religion.’ (Part 28, Surah As-Saf, verse 14)

When Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام was ordered to go and preach to Pharaoh, he made the following appeal to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ asking for the help of a human being and requested Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

وَ اجۡعَلۡ لِّیۡ وَ زِ یۡرًا مِّنۡ اَہۡلِیۡ ﴿ۙ۲۹﴾ ہٰرُوۡنَ اَخِی ﴿ۙ۳۰﴾ اشۡدُ دۡ بِہٖۤ اَزۡرِیۡ ﴿ۙ۳۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And appoint for me a minister from among my family. Who is he? Haroon, my brother. Strengthen my back by him.

(Part 16, Taahaa, verses 29-31)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in another place:

فَاِنَّ اللّٰہَ ہُوَ مَوۡلٰىہُ وَ جِبۡرِ یۡلُ

وَ صَالِحُ الۡمُؤۡ مِنِیۡنَ ۚ وَ الۡمَلٰٓئِکَۃُ بَعۡدَ ذٰلِکَ ظَہِیۡرٌ ﴿۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is his helper, and Jibra`eel, and the righteous believers and furthermore the angels are appointed as helpers.

(Part 28, Surah At-Tahrim, verse 4)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see? The Holy Quran very clearly announces that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is indeed the Helper, and by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and the people that are close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and the saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, and even the angels can help. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by now the satanic whispering that no one can help except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should have been uprooted. An interesting fact is that the people who migrated to Madina-tul-Munawwarah from Makka-tul-Mukarramah are called Muhajir (immigrant companions) and the believers who supported them are known as Ansaar (helping companions). Every sane person knows that the literal meaning of Ansaar is ‘helpers.’

­­­

Now it is possible that Satan may influence someone to think that it is permissible to ask for help from someone who is alive but not when he has passed away. If you carefully study the following verse and the proceeding topic, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this evil thought will be uprooted. It is stated:

وَ لَا تَقُوۡ لُوۡا لِمَنۡ یُّـقۡتَلُ فِیۡ سَبِیۡلِ

اللّٰہِ اَمۡوَاتٌ ؕ بَلۡ اَحۡیَآءٌ وَّ لٰکِنۡ لَّا تَشۡعُـرُوۡنَ ﴿۱۵۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not say about them who are slain in the path of Allah as dead. Rather they are alive, yes, you are unaware.

(Part 2, Al-Baqarah, verse 154)

If this is the attribute of the martyrs, then how can one cast a doubt about the fact that the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, who are much higher in status than the martyrs, who are also alive!

Sayyiduna Imam Bayhaqi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has written a booklet about the life (Hayat-ul-Ambiya) of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and has written in Dalaail-un- Nubuwwah that the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are alive like the martyrs and are with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Haawi lil-Fatawa lis-Suyuti, vol. 2, pp. 263; Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 388)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Mulla ‘Ali Qaari عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـبَارِی has said: Actually there is no difference in both the conditions (i.e. their life and death) of the Awliya-Allah. It is therefore said that they do not die but are transferred from one place to another. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih lil-Qaari, vol. 3, pp. 459)

‘Allamah Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَوِی has said that the saints of Allah are transferred from this mortal world to the endless world and they are alive with their Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They are provided with food and are carefree but people are unaware of this. (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 3, pp. 423)

Shah Waliyyullah Muhaddis Dihlvi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated about the high status of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has authority in his blessed grave like the living (i.e. he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is influential just like the living). (Ham’aat, pp. 61)

حُکم نَافِذ ہے تِرا خَامَہ تِرا سَیف تِری

دَم میں جو چاہے کرے دَور ہے شاہا تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! To learn more saintly miracles of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, go through the 106-page book ‘ Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. It is a very informative and beneficial book on the life history of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . This remarkable book not only contains numerous saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه but also unfolds the blessed childhood life of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his great level of knowledge and piety, blessed sayings and Manqabats written in the praises of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as well as comments of other blessed saints expressed in the praises of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as their devotion to him. Obtain this from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and motivate other Islamic brothers to read it. This book can also be read online from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net or downloaded for free.

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the great excellence & glory and the saintly miracles of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted him such a high status and lofty spiritual influence that by comparison with other blessed saints, Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has no parallel in his great eminence, dignity and highest rank and nor any spiritual guide showed such a great number of saintly miracles. By the blessings of his blessed name, a poisonous animal does not harm and if he is called out in the time of trouble, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه helps, gives cure to the inborn blind and the leper and gives life to the dead by his saintly miracle. By his blessed supplication, people would remain protected from any financial loss; thieves, transgressors, sinners and other evil people who were drowned in sins sought repentance on his hands. While listening to his sermon, when attendees

would face any difficulty due to the rain pouring on them, it would stop by his command. His great eminence and glory can be understood from this thing that when the tradition of ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ took place when he was 5 years old, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited until the 18 part of the Glorious Quran by memory and related that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had memorised these 18 parts when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in the womb of his blessed mother.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the true devotion and affection of His beloved bondsmen and privilege us to follow in their footsteps.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the global non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah, is determined to serve Islam worldwide through more than 95 of its departments. One of these departments is ‘Majlis-e-Tawqeet’ that has been serving the Muslims globally by developing maps and applications, through collecting valuable data regarding accurate timings of Salah, correct information about the Qiblah direction as well as sunrise & sunset times.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ thus far, Majlis-e-Tawqeet has not only developed Salah Timetables of numerous cities, according to the principles of Tawqeet, but has also developed a software, namely ‘Awqat-us-Salat’ in collaboration with the IT Majlis of Dawat-e-Islami. This software is very useful in finding out the correct timings of Salah on computers and mobile phones. By the help of its computer desktop application, the correct timings of Salah and the direction of the Qiblah for 2700000 different locations around the world can be determined easily and 10,000 locations can be determined by its mobile application.

For your feedback on this Majlis, please do contact the responsible Islamic brother of the Majlis at the ‘Aalami Madani Markaz via phone or email (prayer@dawateIslami.net). One may also contact in person during office hours of the Tawqeet Maktab (office).

Dear Islamic brothers! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us a Madani objective, ‘ I must strive to reform myself and people of the whole world. ’ Therefore, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part with enthusiasm in the 12 Zayli Madani works. One of the Zayli Madani works is to attend the weekly Ijtima.’ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Blessings of attending the Ijtima’ are in abundance; one earns rewards by attending the gathering of ‘Ilm-e-Deen.

A blessed Hadees regarding the excellence of ‘Ilm-e-Deen says: The one who walks in order to seek ‘Ilm-e-Deen, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ takes him towards Jannah and the angels lay down their wings for the pleasure of the seeker of knowledge.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 312, Hadees 2691)

Here is a Madani parable for your persuasion:

An Islamic brother from the famous city of Hyderabad (Bab-ul-Islam) has stated that it was probably in the year 1991 on one of the weekly Ijtima’ nights, when I met a cinema owner, who was in the habit of gambling and drinking alcohol. I, with the intention to call him towards righteousness, persuaded him to attend the weekly Ijtima’.

After a discussion, he finally agreed to come with me. During the last Du’a, the condition of the cinema owner became very emotional. He could not stop himself from crying, even after the Du’a was finished. He told me after some time that when he raised his hands for the Du’a, and closed his eyes; he felt that the filth of his heart was being washed away. He started recalling his sins, and the consequences of those sins, and the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him weep. When his eyes were closed, he found himself in front of the blessed tomb of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the city of Madinah Shareef. The area was all illuminated, and the environment was surrounded by fragrance. He continued to cry and he enlightened his heart for a long time with the blessed sight of the Green Dome. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he repented from all of his sins.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that brother now attends the Ijtima’ regularly, and has started to offer his five times daily Salah. One day, when I went to meet him, he told me that his friends, who would never stop him from committing sins, drink with him, and attended sinful gatherings, came to meet him. As they noticed that he regularly attended the Ijtima’, and had started to tread on the path of righteous deeds, one of his friends who did not agree with the beliefs of Ahl-e-Sunnat Wal-Jama’at, said, ‘The Ijtima’ you attend is conducted by those who are misguided, they follow saints, and proclaim Ya Rasoolallah, do not go with them’.

The owner of the cinema house said, ‘I accepted the Madani environment by not only listening to their praises, but also experienced the environment with my own eyes. I attended Dawat-e-Islami’s Ijtima’, and there, I saw the beautiful city of Madinah Shareef with my own eyes. Now you tell me, in an Ijtima’ where one is blessed with the sight of the beautiful tomb – how can those people be wrong? I invite you to come and embrace the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that even if somebody cuts my children’s necks, I will still not leave the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. (Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society, pp. 432)

­­­

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. It is Mustahab [preferable] to clip the nails on a Friday . However, one should not wait for Friday if the nails have grown long.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 668)

The great scholar of Fiqh, Shaykh Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘It is narrated that whosoever clips his/her nails on a Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from calamities till the next Friday and for three days thereafter, that is, for 10 days in total. In one narration, it is said that whosoever clips their nails on a Friday, [for that person] mercy will come and his sins will go [i.e., be forgiven].’

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, pp.9, vol. 668, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 225-226)

1. The following is a summary of the prescribed method of cutting the fingernails as narrated in authentic books: begin with the index finger of the right hand and work your way right towards the pinkie (smallest finger). Now, beginning with the pinkie (small finger) of the left hand, work your way towards the left thumb. In the end, clip the nail of the right thumb. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 670; Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 193, vol. 1)

2. There is no prescribed order of clipping the toe nails. It would be better to start from the smallest toe on the right foot working your way left to the big toe, then cut the big toenail of the left foot working your way left to your little toe. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 193, vol. 1)

3. It is Makruh [disliked] to clip the nails whilst in the state of Janabat, that is, when Ghusl has become obligatory on one.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

4. It is Makruh [disliked] to bite the nails with one’s teeth; there is a fear of being inflicted with leprosy in doing so. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

5. Bury the nails after clipping them; they can also be thrown away.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, pp. 308, vol. 5)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

