اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessed Character and Sayings of Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

It is stated in blessed Tirmizi, a famous book of blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً ‘One who

will recite Durood more than everyone on me will be closest to me amongst people on the Judgement Day.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Regarding this blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The one who will be with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be the most comfortable on the Judgement Day and the source of attaining the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to recite Durood abundantly. From this it has become obvious that reciting Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best virtue as all virtuous deeds will lead to Paradise, but this virtue will lead to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s make good intentions for attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and earning rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we are going to listen to a few attributes of the excellent character of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his blessed sayings. Let’s first of all listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

How is my beloved?

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: In the beginning of Islam, when the number of blessed companions rose to 38, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ requested permission from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to preach the message of Islam openly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O Abu Bakr! We are now less in number. But Sayyiduna Abu Bakr continued to request and finally he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted him permission to preach Islam. Muslims spread in the surrounding areas of Masjid-ul-Haraam. Everyone started inviting their family to Islam.

When Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ stood up to invite people to Islam, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also sitting there. When polytheists of Makkah saw Muslims inviting people to embrace Islam openly, they became furious and started beating Muslims. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also beaten unconscious. When the people of his tribe [Banu Taym (تَیْم)] learnt about it they came running and took him to his home. His father Abu Qahafah and the people of Banu Taym were very worried. They were constantly trying to talk to him. Finally, in the last part of the day, he regained consciousness. When they inquired after him, the first sentence he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spoke was, ‘How is the Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)?’ Upon hearing this, many people of his tribe got angry and left.

When the respected mother of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar, Umm-ul- Khayr Salma would ask him to eat something, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would only speak one sentence: ‘How is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ Tell me only about him. Having seen this condition his mother told: By Allah Almighty! I do not know how your friend is. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘Please go to Umm-e-Jameel the daughter of Khattab and ask her how the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is’. His mother went to Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and asked: ‘My son Abu Bakr is asking you about his friend Muhammad Bin ‘Abdullah

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . How is he?’ Instead of replying to this question Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘If you want I can go with you to your son.’ Then both went to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked the same question: How is the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’? Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is safe and quite well. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked: Where is he now? She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied: He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is sitting at Dar-ul-Arqam. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will not eat or drink anything until I myself see the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Anyhow when everyone had gone, his mother and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Jameel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, the daughter of Khattab, took him to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw his true devotee, tears welled up in his eyes and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stepped forward, embraced him and showed immense compassion towards him.

Having seen this, all the Muslims also moved towards him. When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became emotional. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my mother and father be sacrificed for you! I am alright; only my face has been wounded a little.’ The day he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was made to experience suffering, on the very same day, his blessed mother Sayyidatuna Umm-ul-Khayr Salma and Sayyiduna Ameer Hamzah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا also embraced Islam. (Tareekh Madinah Dimashq, vol. 30 pp. 49)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, filled with the deep devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, endured severe hardships for preaching Islam. This great preacher of Islam sacrificed everything for the sake of the devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Despite experiencing immense sufferings and troubles, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not worry about himself, but kept remembering the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and was impatient to know about his condition.

Just ponder! This was the state of the deep love and devotion of true loyal companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Now let’s ponder over the fact as to how we love our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Do we also have the enthusiasm for sacrificing our lives for the sake of Islam? Blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی never hesitated to sacrifice their lives and wealth, but unfortunately we even do not sacrifice our time. Remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ helps those who help Islam. In Ayah 40 of Surah Al-Hajj, it is stated:

وَ لَیَنْصُرَنَّ اللّٰهُ مَنْ یَّنْصُرُهٗؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And undoubtedly, Allah will necessarily help him who will help His religion. (Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 40)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will help the one who will help His religion. Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: It is upon the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He helps the one who helps Him (His religion). (Tafseer Ad-Durr-ul- Mansoor, vol. 7, pp. 462)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: To help the blessed saints, serve a Nabi, spread Islamic knowledge all are the help for the religion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 537)

Therefore, with the intention of seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should develop the passion for propagating the message of Islam. There are people who help the religion of Allah Almighty. How are they helped? Who helps them? What kind of steadfastness are they blessed with? Let’s listen. In Ayah 7 of Surah Muhammad, part 26 it is stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِنْ تَنْصُرُوا اللّٰهَ یَنْصُرْكُمْ وَ یُثَبِّتْ اَقْدَامَكُمْ(۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! If you help the religion of Allah, He will help you and will stabilise you. (Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 7)

On every Friday and at Eids, countless number of Khateebs make Du’as for those who help Islam, or rather pious predecessors have been making these Du’as for centuries. Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also included the following Du’a in ‘ Khutbat-e-Razawiyyah’ . Here is the Du’a:

اَللّٰھُمَّ انْصُرْ مَنْ نَّصَرَ دِیْنَ سَیِّدِنَا وَمَوْلٰـنَا مُحَمَّد

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Help those who help the religion of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! O those who call people towards righteousness, travel with Madani Qafilahs, give Dars, make individual efforts upon others, extend support to the devotees of Rasool, help the poor travellers of Madani Qafilah financially, and those who take part in any way to help Islam, congratulations as Du’a is being made for them during Friday sermons. O the helpers of Islam! Undoubtedly, when someone gets Divine help, he succeeds in both the worlds. By the help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, big troubles go away and we remain unaware of it. There is something more after the Du’a of sermon:

وَاخْذُلْ مَنْ خَذَلَ دِیْنَ سَیِّدِنَا وَمَوْلٰـنَا مُحَمَّد

O Allah Almighty! Do not help the one also who does not help the religion of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a matter of having fear. If Allah Almighty does not help a person, then surely he will not succeed. Every one of us should ponder whether we are being blessed with Du’a or curse! Every such deed is considered to be a help for the religion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that spreads Islam, makes non-Muslims embrace Islam and reforms spoiled Muslims. So do your best to promote the call towards righteousness. Travel with Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilahs. Learn Sunnahs yourselves and also teach them to others. Thus get the news of Divine help by helping Islam a lot as Allah Almighty has made this promise: In Ayah 7 of Surah Muhammad, part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِنْ تَنْصُرُوا اللّٰهَ یَنْصُرْكُمْ وَ یُثَبِّتْ اَقْدَامَكُمْ(۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! If you help the religion of Allah, He will help you and will stabilise you. (Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 7)

Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will help you i.e., when a Mu`min will make an effort in preaching Islam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make things easy for him, make him steadfast in this mission and will bless him with courage.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Brief introduction to Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the introduction of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ before we know more about his life history. The blessed name of the first caliph of Islam, the leader of believers, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is ‘Abdullah’. His Kunyah is ‘Abu Bakr’ and his titles are ‘Siddeeq’ and ‘Ateeq’. The meaning of ‘Siddeeq’ is ‘ One who speaks the truth very much ’. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was famous by this title even in the era of ignorance because he would always speak the truth. The meaning of ‘Ateeq’ is ‘ free ’. Giving him good news, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَنْتَ عَتِیْقُ اللہِ مِنَ النَّارِ ’ i.e. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you are free from the fire of Hell .’ That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was given this title. (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 19) He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is ‘Qurayshi’, and seven generations above, his genealogical tree joins with that of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was born in Makkah Mukarramah, approximately two and a half years after ‘Aam-ul-Feel’ (Year of the Elephant i.e. the year when accursed King Abrahah attacked sacred Ka’bah with the army of elephants). The leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ is the companion who was the first to testify to the Risalat [Prophethood] of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was such a great personage that after honourable Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, he is the most superior and the

greatest of all mankind. Amongst all free men, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was the first to embrace Islam and proved his loyalty by supporting the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the whole life. After a splendid reign of caliphate that lasted two years and seven months, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away on 22 nd Jumadal Ukhra, 13 th Hijri, after spending the day of Monday. The leader of believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ led the funeral Salah and Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ was laid to rest beside the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 62, 27, 81)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Most abstinent

At one place in the Holy Quran, Allah Almighty has called Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e- Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ most pious .

وَ سَیُجَنَّبُهَا الْاَتْقَىۙ(۱۷)

And he (i.e. Abu Bakr Siddeeq) will be kept far away from it (Hell) who is most pious.

(Part 30, Surah Al-Layl, Ayah 17)

The [ اَتْقٰی ] ‘ most pious ’ as mentioned in this blessed Ayah refers to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had such a great status in the Merciful Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that many blessed Ayahs have been revealed about him. Similarly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had very high status in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Blessed status of Siddeeq-e-Akbar in the court of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that blessed companions humbly asked: Amongst people who do you love the most? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

replied, ‘Aaishah.’ They again humbly asked, ‘Who is from amongst men?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The father of ‘Aaishah.’ (i.e., Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .) (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 126, Hadees 4358)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said: I saw that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was standing with Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, and in the meantime Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stepped forward and shook hands with him, hugged him and then kissed on his face and said to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: O Abu Al-Hassan! To me Abu Bakr has the same status which I have in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 185)

Warm welcome to Siddeeq-e-Akbar in Paradise

Similarly, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘One such person will enter Paradise that all the dwellers of Paradise will address him by saying loudly: Welcome! Welcome! Come here! Come here!’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked in astonishment: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Will we be able to see him as well?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘O Abu Bakr! You are that dweller of Paradise.’ (Sahih Ibn Habbaan, pp. 7, Hadees 6828)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is such a fortunate companion that after blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, he has been declared to be the most superior person amongst all people. Moreover, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave him the good news of Paradise.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has also enjoyed the privilege of being with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life. His greatness can be observed by the fact that even in the skies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned his name with the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘I was given the tour of the skies. Thus, every sky I visited, I found my name written over there and after my [name], [I] also found the name of Abu Bakr written.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 9, pp. 19, Hadees 14296) Therefore, we should also have

great love and devotion to Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ so that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers His mercy on us for the sake of His beloved.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Passion for well-wishing

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with outstanding qualities and pure character. Let’s listen to some of his blessed character traits. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had great passion to do good to people. That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would show great kindness and mercy to the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم who were being oppressed because of embracing Islam. For the Muslims who were treated cruelly, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not only have the feelings of sympathy in his heart, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also try his best to bring salvation to them. He would not be reluctant even to spend money for this great cause. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard.

Freedom of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْه ُ

Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, a famous and dear companion of Rasoolullah, was a true believer and was a pious slave. His master Umayyah Bin Khalaf would take him out of Makkah in the scorching heat of the sun and would make him lie flat on his back on the burning sand, placing a big stone on his chest and would then say: ‘Deny (the religion of) Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), worship our gods or else you will die in the same state.’ Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would only give the following reply: ‘ اَحَد اَحَد ’ (i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is One, He has no partner).’ (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 133-134)

One day, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by the place where Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was being treated cruelly. Rebuking Umayyah Bin Khalaf, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Don’t you fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ while treating this poor person cruelly? How long will you continue to do it?’ He said: ‘Abu Bakr! You have spoiled (i.e. converted him to Islam) him, so

[now] you bring him freedom as well.’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘I have a slave healthier and stronger than Bilal; give me Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in exchange for that slave.’ He replied: ‘I agree!’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in exchange for the slave and some money and freed him. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ freed six more such slaves. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 134)

It has also been narrated that Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for 5 Awqiyah (about 32 Tola of) gold, so the seller said: ‘Abu Bakr! If you had stuck to only one Awqiyah of gold, I would have sold him even for that amount.’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ responded: ‘If you had demanded 100 Awqiyah of gold, I would have even paid that and would have definitely bought Sayyiduna Bilal.’

(Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 134)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable it has been learnt that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very kind to Muslims. He could not see any Mu’min in difficulty and would prefer his wealth to his life. That’s why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought seven slaves including Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and set them free. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was not only pious, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also take the lead in performing virtuous deeds.

Financial sacrifice by Sayyiduna Abu Bakr

On the occasion of the Battle of Tabook, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم commanded the wealthy people of his Ummah to give financial donations generously in the path of Allah Almighty so that arrangements could be made for the food and riding animals of those who were fighting for the sake of Islam. Obeying this commandment of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed personality who brought his entire wealth to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to give it in the path of Allah Almighty was a blessed companion, a great devotee of Rasool, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He placed all his wealth and possessions at the feet of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Seeing this great sacrifice made by his closest companion,

the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Have you left anything for your family as well?’ Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied with utmost respect: ‘ اَبْقَيْتُ لَهُمُ اللهَ وَرَسُوْلَهُ ’ i.e. I have left them at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 5, pp. 435) His statement can simply be interpreted as: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are sufficient for me and my family.

I am pleased with my Rab!

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said: I was present in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; there I saw Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wearing a dress which had thorns in place of buttons. In the meantime, Sayyiduna Jibra’eel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Why is Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wearing such a dress today? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: O Jibra’eel! He has sacrificed his entire wealth for me before the Conquest of Makkah. Jibra’eel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly said: Allah Almighty sends Salam to you and says: Ask him if he is pleased or displeased with Allah Almighty. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Abu Bakr! Allah Almighty has sent Salam to you and said: Are you pleased with Me or not? Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘How can I be displeased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ!’ I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I am pleased with my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tareekh-e-Madinah Dimashq, vol. 30, pp. 71)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this narration we have understood that Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ not only had a great status in the court of Allah Almighty, but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also had a great passion for sacrificing wealth in the path of Allah Almighty. Surely spending wealth in the path of Allah Almighty has many virtues. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The Muslim who clothes any Muslim who does not have clothes, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the dress of Paradise; and he who feeds any hungry Muslim, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him eat the fruit of Paradise; and he who makes

any thirsty Muslim drink water, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him drink sealed pure wine.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 180, Hadees 1682)

Sada-e-Madinah – one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Clothing the Muslims who do not have clothes, feeding the hungry and giving water to the thirsty to drink are excellent virtuous deeds. Let’s make intention that we will also help the poor, give food to the hungry and water to thirsty Muslims, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, Islamic brothers are motivated to perform countless such virtuous deeds. Therefore, from today or rather right now associate yourself with this Madani environment and take part practically in 12 Madani activities to spread the call towards righteousness.

Remember! One Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, to wake Muslims up for Fajr Salah is called ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah, one is privileged to offer Tahajjud Salah.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah, Salah is protected.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah one can offer Fajr Salah with first Takbeer in the first row of the Masjid.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah, one can also get the reward of calling people towards righteousness.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah, Dawat-e-Islami the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, will be publicized and will become famous.

٭ One who makes Sada-e-Madinah makes Du’a again and again for Muslims to perform Hajj and see sacred Madinah. If Allah Almighty wills, these Du’as will also be answered for him as well.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of walking during Sada-e-Madinah one will also improve his health.

٭ Making Sada-e-Madinah is to wake Muslims up for Fajr Salah and to wake Muslims up for Fajr Salah is a Sunnah of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Waking Muslims up for Fajr Salah is also a Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and Sunnah of Sayyiduna Umar-e-Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . While going to the Masjid Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would wake people up for Fajr Salah.

Study the booklet, ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah in order to get more useful information about the Madani activity of Sada-e-Madinah. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of making Sada-e-Madinah and rejoice.

Sada-e-Madinah leads to Madinah

An Islamic brother who was living in Ilahbad, the area of Theeng More (Kusur, Punjab) was associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, but he was not active in Madani activities. By chance, in Muharram-ul-Haraam 1431 AH [January 2010], he met the responsible Islamic brother of Zonal Mushawarat of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. When he learnt about his disinterest in Madani activities, he making an individual effort on him not only motivated him to carry out Madani activities, but he also persuaded him to make Sada-e-Madinah regularly. Regarding this he read out the saying of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, ‘Sada-e-Madinah Dikhaye Madinah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He made up his mind and in the hope of visiting Madinah he started acting upon it from the next day. He just started making Sada-e-Madinah, Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had mercy on him and he was privileged to visit the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم during the same year. Moreover, by virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah his elder brother was also privileged to perform Hajj.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Manner of inviting towards Islam

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the fortunate companion who was the first amongst men to embrace Islam. A famous biographer Sayyiduna Ibn Ishaaq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Just after embracing Islam, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ openly declared it and also started inviting [people] to it. Since he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very soft-hearted amongst his nation, he would share in their sorrow, and was everyone’s favourite personality, he was fully aware of the status and nobility of the lineage of Quraysh and their every good and evil. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also a famous and well-mannered trader. All the prominent personalities and common people of Quraysh would come to him due to his virtues in knowledge and business, and his good company. They would benefit from his blessed company. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would make an individual effort on them, tell them the virtues of Islam and would invite them to embrace Islam. In this way, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also motivated many people, who visited him, to embrace Islam by making individual efforts on them. (Ar-Riyad-un- Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 91)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 11 of his 32-page booklet ‘ Buddha Pujari ’ [The Aged (Idol) Worshipper]: Through his individual efforts, the five blessed individuals embraced Islam who are amongst the ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah. (Remember! The ten blessed companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who were given the good news of being Jannati in the world are called ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah’). (Bunyadi ‘Aqaaid aur Ma’mulaat-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, pp. 76)

Their blessed names are as follows:

1. Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

2. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

3. Sayyiduna Talhah Bin ‘Ubaydullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

4. Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Awf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

5. Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Construction of Masjid in the house

Dear Islamic brothers! In the early days of Islam, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ constructed a Masjid in the courtyard of his home where he would recite the Holy Quran and offer Salah. Seeing him deeply engrossed in the acts of worship, people would gather around him. His recitation of the Holy Quran, his worship, weeping out of Divine fear would really impress people. Many people also embraced Islam by virtue of these acts of his. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 92)

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: When my respectable father would recite the Holy Quran, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not have any control on his tears, that is, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep bitterly. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 493, Hadees 806)

Weeping during recitation is an act of reward

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep uncontrollably while reciting the Holy Quran despite the fact that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had already given him the good news of being Jannati in the world. Even then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should also weep while reciting the Holy Quran and if we are unable to do so, we should at least make a weeping face because weeping while reciting the Holy Quran is an excellent deed. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Weep while reciting the Holy Quran and if you are unable to weep, make a weeping face.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 129, Hadees 1337)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Siyam in summer

Dear Islamic brothers! In addition to worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also observe Siyam [fasts] abundantly. It is stated about him that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would observe [Nafl] Siyam in summer and would not observe them in winter. Surely it was

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr’s yearning for worship that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep while reciting the Holy Quran and would observe Nafl Siyam in addition to Fard Siyam in summer. Today if we ponder over our condition, we find that we observe Fard [obligatory] Siyam with great difficulty even in winter though in winter, days are very short and nights are very long and one feels less thirsty during the day. Whereas, in summer, usually days are very long and nights are very short and one feels intense thirst during the day.

Surely the heat of this world is nothing as compared to the heat of the Hereafter because on the Day of Judgment when the sun will be shining at a distance of only 1.25 miles, people will be very thirsty and will be drenched in their own sweat, it will surely not be possible for us to bear the heat of that time. Therefore for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we should try to perform good deeds in the world. We should please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We have to perform virtuous deeds abundantly in this world in order to attain the shade of the ‘Arsh by the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Judgement Day. In order to have this Madani mind-set associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, and participate practically to accumulate virtues for the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis IT

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy spreading the message of Islam in almost 107 departments all over the world. One of them is Majlis IT whose function is to present Islam’s message all over the world through information technology. ‘Fatawa Razawiyyah Shareef’ of Ala Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and Translation of the Holy Quran, ‘Kanz-ul-Iman’ in the form of software are amongst great and notable achievements of Majlis IT. In cooperation with Majlis Tawqeet, Majlis IT has also presented the software that is very useful in indicating the correct timings of Salahs in computers and mobile phones, etc. A large number of books can be easily studied through Al-Madinah Library. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all these software, prepared

by Majlis IT, can be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so far almost 26 different applications have been launched. May Allah Almighty enable us to serve Islam greatly, to take part actively in virtuous deeds, to act upon Madani In’amaat and to persuade other Islamic brothers to do so by being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another blessed aspect of the life of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very soft-hearted for neighbours.

Do not quarrel with neighbours

Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman Bin Qaasim رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated from his father: Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman Bin Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا who was scolding his neighbour. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to him: Do not quarrel with your neighbour because he will remain here, but the people who will see your quarrel will go away from here. (Kanz-ul-Ummal, vol. 5, pp. 79, Hadees 25599)

Rights of neighbours

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ presented the call towards righteousness with graceful manners to the one who was quarrelling with his neighbour. Of course, when two neighbours quarrel with each other about something, they suffer loss themselves because even after the quarrel they have to live together and their quarrel becomes a fun for others.

Remember! Islam lays great emphasis on the rights of neighbour as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘I advise you to treat your neighbours well.’ Then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned so

many rights of neighbours that it seemed that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would give him a share in inheritance.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 111, Hadees 7523)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the privilege to take great care of our neighbours!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayings of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ reformed the people not only through his character, but he also guided the Ummah by presenting the call towards righteousness through his admonitory sayings.

Sayyiduna Raafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I was present in the court of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . I humbly said: Please advise me. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said twice: ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you and grant you blessing (then said:)

1. Offer Fard Salahs on time.

2. Pay Zakah happily.

3. Observe the Siyam of Ramadan.

4. Perform Hajj of Baytullah and

5. Never become a ruler.

I humbly asked: O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! Nowadays, the rulers are the best people of Ummah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: Nowadays, governance is easy but I fear that in the future due to the excess of victories, there will be many governments, and thus it is likely that incompetent rulers will emerge. On the Day of Judgement, the accountability of a ruler will be longer and [he will suffer] more torment, whereas non-ruler’s accountability will be lesser and [he will suffer] light torment, because it is the ruler who inflicts more cruelty

and a cruel ruler breaks the promise that he gives to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Amongst these rulers, some (those who serve justice) are pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and some, (because of cruelty) are driven away from the Divine court. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! When any of you seizes neighbour’s nanny goat or camel, he becomes very happy that he has seized neighbour’s nanny goat or camel, whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will punish them definitely. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 51, Hadees 7472, Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 253)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessings of Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, who observes Siyam throughout the year, the Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam continues especially through the followers of Madani In’amaat in Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about the Nafl Siyam.

Few Madani Pearls about Nafl Siyam

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: If someone keeps a Nafl Sawm one day and he is given the whole earth full of gold as a reward, even then, his reward will not be complete, he will be given his reward only on the Day of Judgement. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 353, Hadees 6104)

Organizational grading for Sawm-observing devotees

٭ Excellent: The one who observes ‘Sawm-e-Dawoodi’, that is, observes a Sawm every alternate day, or at least 15 Siyam in a month at his convenience or observes Siyam throughout the year except for the five prohibited days (It is Makruh Tahreemi to observe a Sawm on Eid-ul-Fitr, and 10, 11, 12, 13 th of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam.) (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 391)

٭ Better: One who observes Sawm every blessed Monday and Thursday will be considered to be ‘better’. (Observing Siyam on Monday and

Thursday is a Sunnah. However, one observing seven Siyam in a Madani month at his convenience will also be organizationally considered to be ‘better’.)

٭ Average: One who observes Sawm every blessed Monday or due to some compulsion, on the weekly holiday will be considered to be average. (In this way, he will observe four or five Siyam in a month.)

٭ Remember! If a Nafl Sawm is deliberately observed, it will become Wajib to complete it. If one breaks it, its Qada will become Wajib.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 473)

٭ If parents forbid their son from observing a Nafl Sawm for fear of illness, the son should obey his parents. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 478)

٭ A wife cannot observe a Nafl Sawm without the permission of her husband. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 477)

Note

The Islamic brothers joining the Madani campaign of Nafl Siyam should contact Majlis Madani In’amaat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about shaking hands

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some Madani pearls about shaking hands from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ When two Muslims meet, it is Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam.

٭ When two friends meet each other, shake hands, and recite Durood upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

٭ While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Durood:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls about shaking hands will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 28 February 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls about shaking hands

٭ The Du’a that two Muslims make while shaking hands will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be answered and both will be forgiven before their hands are separated. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 4, pp. 286, Hadees 12454)

٭ Shaking hands with each other removes enmity.

٭ When two Muslims shake hands while meeting and ask each other about their well-being, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends down a hundred mercies between them, of which ninety nine mercies are for the one who meets the other more warmly and asks about the well-being of his brother in a more beautiful manner. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 380, Raqm 7672)

٭ It is not Sunnah for both to just shake hands by using one hand each. The Sunnah is to use both hands for a handshake.

٭ Say Salam when leaving as well. You may also shake hands.

٭ You can shake hands every time you meet.

٭ Some people just touch their fingers; this is not the Sunnah either.

٭ It is Makruh to kiss one’s own hand after shaking hands.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 115)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for paying gratitude

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for ‘ paying gratitude ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اَعِنِّیۡ عَلٰی ذِکۡرِکَ وَ شُکۡرِکَ وَ حُسۡنِ عِبَادَتِکَ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ help me to invoke Your Zikr (remembrance), paying gratitude and performing Your worship virtuously.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, pp. 123, vol. 2, Hadees 1522)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

