اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Rewards for Repenters

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Send abundant Salat upon me on Fridays, for it is the day of presence, angels appear and whoever recites Salat upon me, his Salat is presented to me. The narrator said: I humbly asked, ‘Even after your apparent demise?’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Yes! Indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden the earth to consume the bodies of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُوَالـسَّـلَام .’ (Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 291, Hadees 1637)

بچیں بے کار باتوں سے پڑھیں اے کاش کثرت سے

ترے محبوب پر ہر دَم دُرُودِ پاک ہم مولٰی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

v Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

v The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Tashahud position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is stated on page 378 of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: The nation of Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام used to live in Naynawa, the area of Mosal. They were indulged in unbelief and polytheism. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام to them. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام enjoined them to believe (in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ), but they refused and did not listen to Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام .

By the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام informed them that punishment is heading towards them. They discussed with each other that ‘Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام has never said anything false, so if he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام stays here tonight, then there is no danger but if he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام does not spend the night here, then this means that we will be punished.’

When night fell, Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام left that place and the signs of torment appeared in the morning. A dark and terrifying cloud appeared in the sky, a lot of smoke covered the entire city. After witnessing this, they realised that now the torment was about to be inflicted upon them. They looked for Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, but found him nowhere. Now they became even more terrified. Therefore, they went towards the jungle along with their women, children and animals. After wearing thick clothing, they repented of their sins and stated that they are Muslims. Wives got separated from their husbands and children from their mothers and all of them became extremely worried and humbly begged Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ saying that they have embraced the religion which was brought to them by Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام .

Therefore, all of them sincerely repented and rid themselves of the sins which they were committing. They returned each other’s possessions, even a single stone that belonged to someone else but by mistake it was used in the foundation of another person was also returned to its real owner after demolishing the foundation. They sincerely made Du’as to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for their

forgiveness, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had mercy on them and answered their Du’as by granted them salvation from the torment.

(Tafseer Khaazin, Surah Yunus, Taht-al-Ayah: 98, vol. 2, pp. 335-336)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that torment was about to be inflicted upon the nation of Sayyiduna Yunus عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام due to the abundance of their sins, their heedlessness and their rebellion, but their true repentance worked in their favour and sincere repentance earned them safety against the approaching torment. This parable contains countless Madani pearls for us. Due to different types of sins like missing Salahs, disobedience to parents, lying, backbiting, tale-telling, watching films and dramas, watching and listening to songs and music, if our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets displeased with us and does not have mercy upon us, then what will happen to us? We still have time now. We should control ourselves and repent of our sins as quickly as possible. Instead of inviting constant troubles and hardships of the Hereafter for the sake of the temporary pleasure of this world we should repent sincerely of our sins and include ourselves amongst the holy and favourite bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the blessing of this, our worldly condition and the Hereafter will get better.

یا خُدا میری مغفرت فرما باغِ فردوس مَرحَمت فرما

تُو گُناہوں کو کر مُعاف الله! میری مقبول مَعذرت فرما

مُصطفٰے کا وسیلہ توبہ پر تُو عنایت مُداوَمت فرما

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! There are three conditions for true repentance to be fulfilled. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then it will not be called sincere repentance:

1. Feeling true regret over past sins

1. Abandoning sins

2. Making a firm intention of not committing sins in the future

(Minh-ur-Raud, pp. 436)

A’la Hadrat, Imam-Ahl-e-Sunnat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: True repentance means immediately giving up the sin, feeling deep regret and being worried because it is disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and making a firm intention in the heart not to commit that sin again, and finding out every possible way to compensate for the sin. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 121)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The repentance of every sin is different. Let’s have the privilege of listening to a few Madani pearls regarding this from page 230 of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 4, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Remember that the repentance of different sins is not the same. For example, if the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have been violated, such as missing Salahs, fasts of Ramadan have not been observed, Fard Zakah has not been paid, Hajj has not been performed despite it being Fard, then the repentance for them is that one should offer the missed Salahs, observe the missed fasts, pay Zakah, perform Hajj, and one must also seek forgiveness of his sins from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with a deep sense of shame.

Likewise, if someone has committed any sin using his ears, eyes, tongue, stomach, hands and legs, private parts and other parts of the body, which are related to the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (not to the rights of people) such as to look at a non-Mahram woman, to sit in the Masjid in the state of Janabat (when Ghusl becomes Fard), to touch the Holy Quran without Wudu, to drink wine, to listen to songs and music etc. The repentance for them is to confess his sins to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whilst having deep regret over his sins and making a firm intention not to commit them again in future, in this manner one should

sincerely seek forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . After seeking forgiveness, he should perform some good deeds because good deeds erase sins. If he has violated the rights of people, then this has three situations:

1. These rights are only related to credit such as the price of something that has been bought, wage of a labour or the Mahr (monetary dower) of a wife etc. In this case, repentance should be made like this: A person should fulfil these rights or should apologize to the person whose rights he has violated.

2. These rights are only related to cruelty such as to beat up someone, to abuse someone or to commit backbiting against a person which he gets to know about. In this case, repentance should be made like this: A person should only apologize to the one whose rights he has violated.

3. These rights are related to both—credit and cruelty such as to steal, seize or rob someone of his possession, to take a bribe from someone, to charge interest on money or win money in gambling etc. In this case, repentance should be made like this: A person should fulfil the rights as well as apologize to the person whose rights he has violated. If the conditions of repentance are fulfilled, repentance will definitely be accepted, because it is the promise of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to go back on His promise is not worthy of His blessed glory. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 230)

گر تُو ناراض ہوا میری ہلاکت ہوگی ہائے! میں نارِ جہنّم میں جلوں گا یا ربّ

عَفو کر اور سَدا کے لئے راضی ہوجا گر کرم کردے تو جنَّت میں رہوں گا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are countless, therefore, whenever we commit sins, we should immediately repent and humbly beg

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for forgiveness. Being a human, if we commit a sin, we should repent, then again if we commit a sin, we should repent again. No matter how many times we commit sins, we should repent each and every time and should never feel disappointed. Undoubtedly, those who sincerely seek repentance from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very pleased with them and grants His special grace and favour upon them. In many places of the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ persuades His sinful slaves. It is stated in verse 39 of Surah Al-Mai’dah, part 6:

فَمَنۡ تَابَ مِنۡۢ بَعۡدِ ظُلۡمِہٖ وَ اَصۡلَحَ فَاِنَّ اللّٰہَ یَتُوۡبُ عَلَیۡہِ ؕ اِنَّ اللّٰہَ غَفُوۡ رٌ رَّحِیۡمٌ ﴿۳۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then whoso repents after his injustice and amends then Allah will turn to him with His Mercy, undoubtedly, Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

Regarding this blessed verse, it has been stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, that repentance is an extremely good thing; no matter how major the sin is, if one repents, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives His right and grants the repenter salvation from punishment in the Hereafter.

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol.2, pp. 430)

گر تُو ناراض ہوا میری ہلاکت ہوگی ہائے! میں نارِ جہنّم میں جلوں گا یا ربّ

عَفو کر اور سَدا کے لئے راضی ہوجا گر کرم کردے تو جنَّت میں رہوں گا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that repenting of sins is a good and favourite act. Likewise, in another place in the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ persuades us to repent and has mentioned its excellence. It has been stated:

یٰۤاَ یُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡ ا تُوۡ بُوۡۤ ا اِلَی اللّٰہِ تَوۡ بَۃً نَّصُوۡحًا ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Turn towards Allah in such a way that it may become an admonition for the future.

(Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, verse 8)

In this blessed verse, the meaning of the word ‘ نَصُوۡح ’ is to be pure, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is free from any impurity. When the second caliph, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Farooq-e-A’zam Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked about ‘true repentance’, then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘It means that a person repents of his bad deed in such a way that he never commits this sin again.’ (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 8, pp. 227)

Similarly, Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbaas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had humbly said: Ya Rasoolallaah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, what is ‘ تَوۡبَةً نَصُوۡحا ’? The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘It means that a person feels ashamed of the sin he has committed, he then seeks forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and then never returns to this sin such as milk does not return to its udder.’ Sayyiduna Ibn Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: By making ‘ تَوۡبَةً نَصُوۡحا ’, all sins are forgiven. (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, vol. 8, pp. 227)

میں کر کے توبہ پلٹ کر گناہ کرتا ہوں حقیقی توبہ کا کر دے شَرَف عطا یا ربّ

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you taken notice of the countless blessings that are attained by making true repentance! All sins of the repenter are forgiven. Therefore, we should humbly make true repentance from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and if we commit sins again, we should repent again as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has praised such people in the Holy Quran. It is stated in verse 17 of Surah An-Nisa:

اِنَّمَا التَّوۡبَۃُ عَلَی اللہِ لِلَّذِیۡنَ یَعۡمَلُوۡنَ السُّوۡٓءَ بِجَہَالَۃٍ ثُمَّ یَتُوۡبُوۡنَ مِنۡ قَرِ یۡبٍ فَاُولٰٓئِکَ یَتُوۡبُ اللہُ عَلَیۡہِمۡ ؕ وَ کَانَ اللہُ عَلِیۡمًا حَکِیۡمًا ﴿۱۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The repentance whose acceptance has been undertaken by Allah with His own Grace is only for those who do evil ignorantly and then again repent soon after. Allah turns towards such people with His Mercy; and Allah is Knowing, Wise. (Part 4, Surah An- Nisa, verse 17)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a great mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (for a believer) that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives the sins when the believer repents soon after committing a sin (in error). He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts our repentance until the time of our death. It has been stated here that the one who after committing a sin, if he repents after a little while (here a little while does not mean a few hours or a few years, but rather before death whenever he repents), it will be considered as close. However, when death has approached and the matters of Ghayb are revealed, now repentance will not be accepted. Furthermore, making laws regarding repentance is exactly based on wisdom and knowledge in Islam. The followers of religions in which the concept of repentance does not exist, they commit sins without any hesitation because disappointment provokes a person to commit a crime and hope of forgiveness inspires a person to repent. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 2, pp. 163)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned abundant virtues of repentance and the rewards which are gained for it. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When a person commits a sin and then repents in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and remains steadfast on it, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts every good deed of his and forgives every sin that he committed and in return for (every forgiven) sin He عَزَّوَجَلَّ elevates his one

rank in Heaven and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him a palace in Heaven for his every virtue and performs his Nikah with one of the Heavenly maidens.

(Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 21)

Similarly, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever likes that his Book of Deeds should make him happy, he should increase Istighfar (repentance) in it.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 347, Raqm 17579)

It is mentioned in another blessed Hadees: ﴿ اَلتَّائِبُ مِنَ الذَّنۡۢبِ كَمَنۡ لَّا ذَنۡۢبَ لَه ٗ ﴾ (The one who repents is like one who has not committed a sin at all) .

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 491, Hadees 4250)

Furthermore, it is stated in a blessed Hadees: When Iblees said: ‘O my Rab (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! I swear oath on Your Honour! I will continue to incite Your bondsmen as long as their souls are in their bodies.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ replied, ‘By My Honour and Glory, I will continue to forgive them so long as they beg Me for forgiveness.’ (Musnad Imam Ahmad vol. 4, pp. 58, Hadees 11237)

نہ کرنا حشر میں پُرسِش مِری ہو بے سبب بخشش

عطا کر باغِ فردوس از پئے شاہِ اُمم مولٰی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the virtues and blessings of making repentance from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is so kind to the repenter that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives all of his sins even if he repents despite committing them over and over again. Furthermore, the rewards which a repenter deserves, can also be judged by the following incident.

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated that when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted the repentance of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, the angels congratulated him and Sayyiduna Jibra`eel and Sayyiduna Mika`eel عَـلَـيْـهِمَا الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام approached him and humbly said, ‘O Aadam! May your eyes be cool by virtue of the acceptance of repentance from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said, ‘O Jibra`eel! If there is a question even after this repentance then what will my status be?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to him, ‘O Aadam! You have left tiredness, worry and repentance for your offspring in inheritance. Whoever calls upon me, I will listen to his call as I have heard your call and the one who seeks forgiveness from Me, I will grant him because I am close and the One Who answers a Du’a. O Aadam! I will raise the repenters from the graves in a state that they will be happy and will be smiling and their Du’a will be answered.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 7)

مغفرت کا ہوں تجھ سے سُوالی پھیرنا اپنے در سے نہ خالی

مجھ گنہگار کی اِلتجاء ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The repenter is very fortunate because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the person who sincerely repents; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ also blesses them with favours. Furthermore, it has also been learnt that the repenter becomes so close and so favourite to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that his Du’as are then answered. But regretfully! Despite gaining so many favours we are busy disobeying our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we delay in making repentance. Considering life sufficient we should immediately repent. The state of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی was that when they were given any piece of advice and were persuaded to repent, then they used to become overwhelmed with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and then these righteous personages would make such true repentance that they would remain steadfast on it until their demise.

Shaykh -e- Tareeqat, Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـ ه has narrated a parable in his book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness]:

Sayyiduna ‘ Utbah-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a young man and was a notorious sinner and drinker (before repentance). One day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attended the gathering of Sayyiduna Hasan Basri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی who was commenting on the following blessed verse:

اَ لَمۡ یَاۡنِ لِلَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡۤ ا اَنۡ تَخۡشَعَ قُلُوۡ بُہُمۡ لِذِ کۡرِ اللہِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Has not the time come for the believers that their hearts should be humble for the remembrance of Allah?

(Part 27, Surah Al- Hadeed, verse 16)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه delivered such an effective and touching speech that the attendees were moved to tears. Standing up, a young man said: O my master! Will Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept the repentance of a great sinner like me, if I repent? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Indeed. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will accept your repentance. When Sayyiduna ‘ Utbah-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard this, he began to scream and his body started trembling with his face turning pale. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then fell down unconscious. After regaining consciousness, Sayyiduna Hasan Basri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی approached him and recited these couplets:

اَيَا شَابًّا لِّرَبِّ الۡعَرۡشِ عَاصِيۡ اَتَدۡرِيۡ مَا جَزَاءُ ذَوِي الۡمَعَاصِي

Translation: (O young man who has disobeyed the Creator of the ‘ Arsh! Do you know what the punishment of the sinners is?).

سَعِيۡرٌ لَّلۡعُصَاةِ لَهَا زَفِيۡرٌ وَغَيۡظُ يَوۡمٍ يُؤۡخَذُ بِالنَّوَاصِيۡ

(For sinners there is a thundering Hell, which has thunder and the day they will be caught by the foreheads, they will be visited by wrath of Allah).

فَاِنۡ تَصۡبِرۡ عَلَي النِّيۡرَانِ فَاعۡصِهُ وَ اِلَّا كُنۡ عَنِ الۡعِصۡيَانِ قَاصِيۡ

(If you can bear the fire, then become disobedient. Otherwise, give up disobedience.)

وَفِيۡمَا قَدۡ كَسَبَتۡ مِنَ الۡخَطَايَا رَهَنۡتَ النَّفۡسَ فَاجۡهَدۡ فِي الۡخَلَاصِي

]

(Whatever sins you have committed, you have trapped your Nafs. Now you must strive for salvation.)

‘Utbah-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in an emotional state. After recovering, he asked: O Shaykh! Will the Merciful Creator accept the repentance of a despicable person like me? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Why not? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts the repentance and remorse of His sinful bondman. Sayyiduna ‘Utbah-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then made three Du’as:

1. ‘O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If You have accepted my repentance and forgiven my sins, then grant me such an intellect and memory that whatever I hear from Islamic knowledge and the Holy Quran I can memorise it.

2. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bless me with such a pleasant voice which could soften even the heart of a hard-hearted person when he listens to my recitation of the Holy Quran.

3. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant me Halal sustenance and by such means which I cannot even think about.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted all of his Du’as. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with a very strong memory. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the Holy Quran, sinners would repent just by listening to his recitation. Everyday, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would find a bowl of gravy and two loaves of bread in his home. No one knew who would leave these things. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away in the same state.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 28, 29)

عزیزا! یاد کر جس دن کہ عِزرائیل آئیں گے

نہ جاوے کوئی تیرے سنگ، اکیلا تُو نے جانا ہے

جہاں کے شَغل میں شاغِل، خدا کے ذِکر سے غافِل

کرے دعوٰی کہ یہ دُنیا مِرا دائِم ٹِھکانا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Just ponder! Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated a very thought provoking parable that when Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was delivering his speech, then Sayyiduna ‘Utbah-tul-Ghulam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so affected by it that he fell down unconscious, and finally in the same gathering he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made such a repentance that he was rewarded in this world as well. Therefore, we should also truly repent of our sins because death keeps no calendar; warning us beforehand to awaken us, daily so many deaths take place, and admonitory incidents which often happen, are shouting out at us to consider life as a blessing before death arrives. But only those people who are worried about their Hereafter, pay attention to this. Those who die often include the young, the old and also children. Death does not see anyone’s age and rank, neither does it care for any poor or wealthy person, nor does it think about anyone’s engagement and leisure. If the breath stops coming, death hands a person over to the grave in a very short period of time.

موت آئی پہلواں بھی چل دئیے خُوبصورت نوجَواں بھی چل دیئے

گر جہاں میں سو برس تُو جی بھی لے قَبر میں تنہا قِیامت تک رہے

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The fragrant environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a global movement of preaching the Quran and Sunnah provides us with good company by virtue of which hundreds of thousands of people have repented of their sinful lives and are now living virtuous lives. One of the 12 weekly Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is to attend the Madani Muzakarah from beginning to end. How great is the Madani Muzakarah that one receives Islamic knowledge in the forms of interesting answers given to the different questions asked from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . One of the virtues of Islamic knowledge is that Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘ O Abu Z ar (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! If you learn one verse from the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the morning, it is better for you than to offer 100 Rak’aat Nafl and if you learn one chapter from Islamic knowledge in the morning, it is better than offering 1000 Rak’aat Nawafil for you, whether you act upon it or not.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-us-Sunnah, vol. 1, pp. 142, Hadees 219)

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s immediately make an intention to ensure that we will attend the Madani Muzakarah from beginning to end every week and we will also continue to invite other Islamic brothers to attend the Madani Muzakarah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to the global Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi), many lovers of the beloved Rasool are privileged to attend the Madani Muzakarah individually and in groups in the country and overseas countries, every week. People from different fields of life are also privileged to attend the Madani Muzakarahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, from time to time the, golden Madani pearls of these Madani Muzakarahs are published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah in the forms of booklets. Until now, 12 episodes of these Madani Muzakarahs have been published.

By virtue of the blessing of attending the Madani Muzakarah regularly every week lots of blessings will be attained, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Many Islamic brothers have repented of their sinful lives by virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakarahs. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for our persuasion.

A modern young man of Indor city (M.P. India) was blessed with doing the collective I’tikaf organised by Dawat-e-Islami in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1426 A.H. The Madani atmosphere of Dawat-e-Islami and the company of the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم caused a Madani transformation in his heart. He grew his beard and adorned his head with a green turban. He also travelled for 12 days in a Madani Qafilah in order to learn the Sunnah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He became a Muballigh of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Till the time of writing this account, he is busy serving Dawat-e-Islami in his city as the Nigran (responsible) of a Halqah Mushawarat.

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! Instead of learning a lesson from the admonitory incidents of the accidents and sudden deaths, day and night we are continuously committing the sin of disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Repenting of sins has abundant rewards, on the other hand, indulging in sins and not repenting has great disasters. Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated, ‘Undoubtedly the heart gets dark when a sin is committed and the recognition and sign of darkness of the heart is that one does not feel troubled when sinning, he is not privileged to become obedient, and advice

does not have any effect on him. O dear! You do not consider any sin as minor.’ (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 24)

Apart from the abovementioned misfortunes that occur due to the abundance of sins, it is also a huge misfortune if one’s Du’a is not accepted.

Once, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was going through a market. Having seen him, people gathered around him with great devotion and humbly said: Huzoor! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in his Glorious Book (Quran):

اُدۡعُوۡنِیۡۤ اَسۡتَجِبۡ لَکُمۡ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Supplicate to Me, I shall answer your supplication. (Part 24, Surah Al-Mu`min, verse 60)

We have been making Du’as for ages, they are not being accepted.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Your heart has become dead because of 10 things:

1. You believe in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as the Creator and Owner, but you do not fulfil His rights (i.e. you do not obey Him).

2. You recite the Holy Quran, but do not act upon it.

3. You claim to love the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and do not act upon his Sunnah.

4. You claim to be the enemy of Satan, but you become his followers.

5. You would like to go to Heaven, but you do not like to perform any deed for attaining it.

6. You admit that you have fear of Hell, but you perform those deeds which will make you fall into it.

7. You believe that death is true, even then you do not prepare for it.

8. You are busy finding faults with others, but conceal your own faults.

9. You consume the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but do not thank Him.

10. You lower the dead bodies of your dear and near ones with your own hands, even then you do not learn any lesson. (Then think yourself! How can your Du’as be answered?) (Wafyat-ul-A’yaan, vol. 1, pp. 395)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned 10 reasons for the unacceptance of Du’as . If we ponder over them, we find that we are guilty of some of these reasons. Therefore, if we want Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to be pleased with us and to answer our Du’as, then we must repent from the bottom of our hearts. One way of repenting is to form a habit of offering two Rak’aat Salat-ut-Taubah, either alone (better) or by being in the company of those lovers of the beloved Rasool who practice upon this Madani In’aam by offering Salat-ut-Taubah . What is the Madani In’aam of Salat-ut-Taubah, let’s listen to this: Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said in Madani In’aam no. 16 out of 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers: ‘Today, did you offer Salat-ut-Taubah at least once (preferably before going to bed) and repent of the sins committed today as well as in the past? Furthermore, in case of committing a sin by chance مَعَاذَ اللّٰه, did you repent instantly and vow never to commit that sin again?’

If only we could be privileged to practise on this Madani In’aam along with the other beautiful Madani In’amaat whilst observing Fikr -e- Madinah!

After offering Salat-ut-Taubah, cry sincerely whilst keeping in mind your disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, your own helplessness and the punishments of Hell. If you cannot cry then at least make your face as if you were weeping. Then, while keeping in mind the conditions of repentance beg for forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make Du’a in this manner: ‘O my Lord! This disobedient person of Yours who is totally drowned in the sea of sins, is present before You. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I acknowledge that I have committed Your disobedience in the day and night, secretly and openly, willingly and unwillingly. Undoubtedly I did every possible thing to displease You, but O Lord! You are Forgiving and Merciful, You are kinder to Your bondsman than a mother’s affection towards her child. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If You seek explanations from me for my sins, I will have to burn in the fire of Hell, the torment of which I cannot even bear for a moment.

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I repent truly of my sins before You; O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have mercy on my helplessness; O my Lord! Forgive my sins; O my Lord! Forgive my sins; O my Lord! Forgive my sins; O my Lord! Enable me to repent sincerely, to perform the worships which I have missed, and also enable me to seek Your forgiveness for the rights of people which I have violated; O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Everything is in Your power; You make me reconcile with them; O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make me steadfast in protecting myself from sins in future; O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant me a heart that is filled with Your fear, eyes that weep due to Your fear and a body that trembles with Your fear.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

یا ربّ! میں ترے خوف سے روتا رہوں ہر دَم

دِیوانہ شہنشاہِ مدینہ کا بنا دے

After the above is done, now leave this place with the belief that the merciful Lord has accepted my repentance. Then start a new and a pure life with a new determination and busy yourself in making up for previous sins.

Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: An Islamic scholar was asked, ‘If a person repents, can he know whether or not his repentance has been accepted?’ It was replied, ‘It cannot be stated, however there are indications, if he feels that he is protecting himself from the coming sins and does not feel [worldly] joy in his heart and for the pleasure of Allah … he is getting closer to the righteous people and staying away from the bad people, he considers a few worldly blessings more and plenty of deeds of Hereafter less, his heart always remains busy offering Faraaid of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he protects his tongue, constantly ponders and feels grief, anger and shame over his past sins (then it should be understood that his repentance has been accepted.)’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 29)

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for serving Islam, Dawat-e-Islami is carrying out Madani works in many departments, one of these departments is called ‘Majlis for the Reformation of Players’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is serving the religion in different departments, another department has been formed for the reformation and improvement of Islamic knowledge for players, namely ‘Majlis for the Reformation of Players’. The sole purpose of this Majlis is to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami among those who are related to sports and associating them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, and to give them the mind set of living their lives according to this Madani mission: ‘ I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the individual and collective efforts of this department, many players start practising on the Madani In’amaat, they become travellers of Madani Qafilahs, and are also privileged to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and weekly Madani Muzakarahs.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When a person has repented of his sins, the first thing he should do is obtain information about sins by any means so that he could avoid committing sins in future. For this, it is very effective to study the published books of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, namely ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom’, ‘ Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen ’, ‘ Mukashafa-tul-Quloob ’ and ‘ Jahannam mayn Lay Jaanay walay A’maal ’ [Deeds Leading to Hell] (volume 1, 2). Then avoid these sins completely and try to avoid those things that lead towards sins.

In addition to this, he should perform good deeds abundantly as the Noor of good deeds overpowers the darkness of sins. Pointing towards this, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِتَّبِعِ السَّيِّئَةَ الۡحَسَنَةَ تَمۡحُهَا ’ Perform a good deed, after committing a sin (in error), it will erase it .

(Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 92, Raqm 21460)

]

It is stated in another blessed Hadees, ‘The example of the person who was first occupied with evils, then started performing good deeds is like the one who is clothed in tight armour due to which his neck is being strangled. Then he performs a good deed, so a ring of this armour gets undone. Then if he performs a second good deed, so the second ring gets undone (and then as he continues to perform good deeds), until the tight armour opens and falls down to the ground.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 17, pp. 248, Raqm 783)

کر کے توبہ میں پھر گناہوں میں ہو ہی جاتا ہوں مُبتلا یا ربّ

طالبِ مغفرت ہوں یا الله بخش حیدر کا واسطہ یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly it is usually difficult to attain steadfastness in performing acts of worship and abstaining from sins. We may always experience this difficulty as long as we do not see any person being steadfast in them. Therefore, if we associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, then we will see a large number of lovers of the Beloved Rasool who will be practising on the Madani In’amaat, travelling with Madani Qafilahs, viewing Madani Muzakarahs and they will also be steadfast in acts of worship that are performed in a gathering. Due to the blessings of the company of these lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we will also be able to stay away from sins, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard that true repentance is to abandon sins. When a person sincerely repents of his sins to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts every good deed of that person and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives every sin of that person. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts the repentance of His bondsman, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ elevates his rank in Heaven in return for every sin of his; in return for the good deed of a true repenter, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him a Heavenly palace and performs his Nikah with one of the Heavenly Hoors (maidens of Jannah).

Dear Islamic brothers! If a repenter finds himself abstaining from sins, feeling no [worldly] joy in his heart (due to sins), staying away from the company of bad people, considering a few blessings of the world sufficient and the Hereafter deeds a few, always obeying the commands of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, protecting his tongue and feeling ashamed (of his past sins) all the time, then there is a great hope that his repentance has been accepted.

Dear Islamic brothers! Being steadfast in committing sins, the unwise who repent should listen to this attentively, that such a person has been declared as one who jokes with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

O Islamic brothers who are regretful and ashamed of their sins in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! After sincerely repenting, give up your bad company; become part of the good and pure Madani environment to attain steadfastness. One Madani method of attaining steadfastness in true repentance is that one should study the published book of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, namely ‘ Taubah ki Riwayaat aur Hikayaat ’ so that he can attain the blessings of the parables of those who repent.

Another Madani method of attaining steadfastness in true repentance is that one should regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, from beginning to end. Also, one Madani method of attaining steadfastness in true repentance is that every month, one should travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah at least. Yet another Madani method of attaining steadfastness in true repentance is that one should keep on watching Madani Channel. By attending the weekly-Madani Muzakarah in a gathering or individually is also a Madani method of attaining steadfastness in true repentance.

Acting upon the Madani In’amaat, one should observe Fikr-e-Madinah daily for attaining steadfastness in true repentance. For attaining steadfastness in true repentance one should also attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults. He may also take the oath of spiritual allegiance from a spiritual guide (who fulfils all the necessary conditions) for attaining steadfastness in true repentance.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of tying an ‘Imamah from the booklet of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه namely ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’:

First of all, two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. 2 Rak’aat of Salah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah are better than offering 70 Rak’aat without wearing an ‘Imamah.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 265, Hadees 3233)

2. ‘Imamah on a Topi (hat) is a difference between us and the unbelievers; for every furl that a Muslim makes on his head, a Noor will be granted to him on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 353, Hadees 5725)

3. Tie the ‘Imamah whilst standing, facing the Qiblah. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas lish-Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Dihlvi, pp. 38)

4. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards (2.28 meters) in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards (5 meters), and it should be tied in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

5. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the whole head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah.

6. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

7. If the ‘Imamah has to be tied again, then it should be untied in the way it was tied, it should not be thrown on the ground at all, the first time.

8. If the ‘Imamah is to be taken off out of some need and there is the intention of binding it again, then one sin will be erased on untying each fold . (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 214)

9. Please listen to five medical benefits of wearing an ‘Imamah:

v Winter and summer directly affect the hair of bareheaded people; it not only affects their hair, but also the brain and face, and may harm their health. Therefore, with the intention of acting upon a Sunnah, if someone ties an ‘Imamah on his head, he will attain the safety and peace of both the worlds.

v According to a medical research, to wear an ‘Imamah is very effective for the head.

v The ‘Imamah supports the brain and improves the memory.

v If a person wears an ‘Imamah, he will not suffer from chronic influenza or if he suffers from it, he will be less affected.

v The Shimlah (end part after tying it) of the ‘Imamah protects a person from paralyses of the lower body, because the Shimlah protects the spinal cord against the effect of weather such as winter, summer, etc.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

