Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Respect of mother . 4

One rude to mother was engulfed in earth . 7

Advice of respecting the elders . 9

Attained salvation due to respecting Waliyyullah (saint) . 10

Halqah Dars of Imam Husayn .. 11

Treat your elder brother well 13

Madani Daurah [Madani visit] . 14

Boss of famous band repents . 15

Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah . 15

Showing respect for the relatives . 16

Quranic command of Silah Rihmi (good behaviour to our relatives) . 16

Ten virtues of treating relatives with kindness . 17

Respect of spiritual guide . 19

Motivation for Madani In’aam no. 7 . 22

Summary of Bayan .. 23

Wearing shoes: 7 Madani pearls . 24

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 26

2. All sins forgiven .. 26

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 27

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 27

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 27

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 28

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 28

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 28

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Treat Your Elders with Respect

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel who will send that Salat to my grave, as gifts are presented to you. Undoubtedly, my knowledge after my [apparent] demise will remain the same as it is in my life.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22355)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں اُن پر سلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we will have the privilege to listen to the Madani pearls regarding showing respect to the elders. Our great religion Islam teaches us to show affection towards those who are younger than us and have lower rank and status than us. It also teaches us to show respect to those who are older than us, more knowledgeable than us and possess a higher rank and status than us. Almost every day, we surely contact and communicate with our elders. ‘Our elders’ here include parents, paternal and maternal uncles, elder siblings, other relatives, teachers, spiritual guide, scholars & Mashaaikh and all those who are honourable and have a greater status and position than us. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has ordered us to show respect and reverence towards them. In this regard, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. وَقِّـر ِ الْكَبِيْرَ وَ ارْحَمِ الصَّغِيْرَ تُرافِقُنِيْ فِي الْجَنَّة: Show respect and reverence towards the elders and have mercy upon the young ones, you will attain my company in Jannah. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 458, Hadees 10981)

Extend your gatherings [i.e. make space] for a scholar due to his knowledge, for an elderly person due to his age and for the ruler due to his status. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 66, Hadees 25495)

Dear Islamic brothers! It shows that respecting the elders is a means of getting salvation and the [blessed] company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannah. How deep respect our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would show towards their elders! Let’s hear about it.

Respect of mother

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned a parable on page 4 of his booklet ‘ Samundari Gumbad ’ [Oceanic Dome], let’s listen to it attentively and try to attain the mother’s prayers:

Sayyiduna Ba-Yazeed Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘During a very cold night, my mother asked me to bring water. I went to bring a glass of water but she had

fallen asleep when I came. I did not feel it appropriate to wake her up. Therefore, I stood near her holding the glass of water and waiting for her to wake up so that I would present it to her. I stood for quite a while. Meantime, some water spilled over my finger and froze, turning into ice.

When my mother woke up, I presented her the glass of water. My finger had adhered to the glass because of ice. As I detached my finger from the glass, its skin came off, causing bleeding. Seeing it, my mother asked, ‘What is this?’ I told her the whole story. Listening to it, she raised her hands and made Du’a, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I am pleased with him. You also get pleased with him.’

(Nuzha-tul-Majalis, vol. 1, pp. 261)

مُطیع اپنے ماں باپ کا کر، میں انکا

ہر اک حکم لاؤں بجا یا الٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you realized! How beautifully Sayyiduna Ba-Yazeed Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه showed respect towards his blessed mother! He did not like to awake her but rather he spent the whole night standing in the intense cold in respect for her. Glad, his blessed mother then made Du’a for him: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I am pleased with him, you also become pleased with him. We should also follow the footstep of our pious predecessors and show respect to our parents. Serving parents and showing respect to them are very good deeds. If we treat them nicely and show respect to them, they may be very happy with us and pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for us, which may bring goodness to us in the world and Hereafter. Islam teaches us to behave nicely to our parents, talking to them gently and affectionately. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah 23 to 24:

وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًاؕ-اِمَّا یَبْلُغَنَّ عِنْدَكَ الْكِبَرَ اَحَدُهُمَاۤ اَوْ كِلٰهُمَا فَلَا تَقُلْ لَّهُمَاۤ اُفٍّ وَّ لَا تَنْهَرْهُمَا وَ قُلْ لَّهُمَا قَوْلًا كَرِیْمًا(۲۳) وَ اخْفِضْ لَهُمَا جَنَاحَ الذُّلِّ مِنَ الرَّحْمَةِ وَ قُلْ رَّبِّ ارْحَمْهُمَا كَمَا رَبَّیٰنِیْ صَغِیْرًاؕ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Treat your parents with goodness; if either of them or both reach old age in your presence, do not say ‘uff’ (any expression of disgust) to them and do not chide them, and speak to them with respect. And spread for them the arms of humility with tender heart, and say, ‘My Lord! Have mercy on them both as they brought me up when I was a child.’

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 23-24)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is stated in the Tafseer of the above blessed Quranic Ayah: Along with the order of His worship, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also ordered that parents be treated kindly. There is wisdom behind it. The actual cause of the existence of human is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created him, whereas his parents are the apparent cause of his existence. This is the reason why Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ first ordered him to revere the actual cause of his existence [i.e. the Creator] and then to revere the apparent cause [i.e. one’s parents]. The blessed Ayah implies that your Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded you to behave kindly towards your parents because they also bestowed great favours upon you. Hence it is obligatory for you to treat your parents well. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, pp. 440)

When your parents have grown weak and have lost strength and health – as you were weak and powerless in your childhood – so you do not even say ‘uff’ to them; nor any other word indicating that you consider them to be a burden. And do not rebuke them and talk to them gracefully, politely and kindly. (Khaazin vol. 3, pp. 170-172; Siraat-ul-Jinaan, pp. 443)

Dear Islamic brothers! Through the Tafseer of blessed Quranic Ayah, we learnt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given the order to be kind to the parents and has advised us that they should be particularly looked after in their old age. Undoubtedly, our parents have bestowed great favours upon us, raised us properly after our birth. When we fell sick, they kept awake all night long for us, fed us Halal sustenance, provided us with decent education or any skill, paid our fees, endured hardships for providing us with comforts, helped us in our difficult times as much as they could. In short, if we think of the favours our parents have done to us, we would simply realize that they have made countless sacrifices for us. We should also show gentleness towards them in exchange for favours. If we ever dislike what they say, we must not still rebuke them,

let alone beating them. Always show great affection towards them. Take care that they eat proper meals. If they fall sick, provide them with better treatment. In case we are abroad, still, we should not let them feel that we are away from them, talk to them on phone. Taking advantage of new technology, we should make video calls to them, seeing them and letting them see us.

Remember! In old age, parents act like children. Sometimes, extremely old parents wet and defecate in bed, usually causing the offspring to get deeply upset. But remember that it is obligatory for offspring to serve their parents even in this condition. Look! The mother also looks after her child and keeps him clean from dirt and filth especially in his childhood after urination and defecation. Therefore, even if they get extremely peevish [i.e. easily annoyed] and quarrelsome due to their old age and diseases, you still have to be patient, patient and nothing but patient with them, treating them with respect. Do not even say ‘ uff ’ to them, let alone being rude to them and shouting at them or else you may suffer a great loss, meeting doom in the world and in the Hereafter. Sometimes the one who hurts the feelings of his parents is humiliated and disgraced in the world and deserves torment of hellfire.

One rude to mother was engulfed in earth

There was a farmer living in a village. His mother and wife would often quarrel with each other. Many a time, his wife went to her parental home walking out on her husband but he would bring her back by flattering her. Last time, his wife said to him, ‘Either I or your mother will live in this home now.’

The farmer was mad for his wife, so he decided in his heart to get rid of his mother, which he thought was the only solution to the frequently breaking out quarrel. Therefore, using a pretext, he once took his mother to his sugar-cane farm. While cutting sugar-cane, he got an opportunity and turned upon his mother with his small axe drawn on her; but all of a sudden his feet were sunk into the ground. The small axe dropped from his hand and his mother fled to the village, shocked and shrieking. The earth gradually began to swallow him up. He continued to cry out in terror and to apologize to her, calling out ‘Mother! Mother!’ but she had gone far away. After a short while, people reached there and saw that he had been sunk up to his chest. They

made efforts to rescue him but in vain because the earth continued to swallow him up until he was completely sunk into the ground.

(Nayki ki Dawat, pp. 438)

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard how a son met his doom in consequence of disobeying his mother. In our society, mothers are usually considered important to some extent but unfortunately fathers are completely taken for granted. It is the father who, in a sense, provides the offspring with the blessing of the ‘mother’. The father has the burden of the entire family on his shoulders, meeting their needs and suffering hardships for them. He teaches his child how to walk and guides him on how to lead an honourable life in society. If Jannah lies under the feet of the mother, the father is the middle door of Jannah. Father’s pleasure is the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Regarding the importance and excellence of father, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lies in the pleasure of the father and the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lies in the displeasure of the father.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 360, Hadees 1907)

2. Obedience to the father is obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and disobedience to the father is disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 614, Hadees 4455)

3. The father is the middle door from among the doors of Jannah; whether [you] lose it or protect it. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 359, Hadees 2255)

While guiding people, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated:

دل دُکھانا چھوڑ دیں ماں باپ کا

ورنہ ہے اس میں خَسارہ آپ کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If a person displeases his elders especially his parents hurting their feelings, showing disrespect to them and treating them badly, so such a person becomes a great sinner and deserves torment in the world and in the Hereafter. He is not also considered an honourable person in society.

Remember! Our relation with our parents requires that we must also show respect towards our maternal grandmother, maternal grandfather, paternal grandmother and paternal grandfather. In fact, we should treat every aged person with respect. Islam attaches great importance to the respect and honour of the elderly people. This is a unique quality and feature of Islamic society. Islam does not allow anyone to turn out the elderly people considering them to be a burden and to send them to any ‘old people’s home’. This is a distinguishing feature of Islam that it teaches and encourages the young people to show respect and reverence to the aged, and to preserve their honour. In the past era, if any young person walked ahead of any old person, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would make him sink into the ground (due to disrespect).

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 9, pp. 62)

It is stated in a narration: The young person who reveres an elderly person due to his age, in exchange for it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make anyone else respect him [i.e. the young person]. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 411, Raqm 2029)

We should show respect to our elders, and obey their orders immediately so that we can attain respect in the world and save ourselves from disgrace [i.e. disrespect] in Hereafter. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would advise their followers and admirers to show respect and reverence towards the elders.

Advice of respecting the elders

Having completed his studies, Sayyiduna Yusuf Bin Khalid Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a pupil of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah Sayyiduna Nu’man Bin Saabit رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, sought permission to go to his city ‘Basra’. Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Stay for some days. Let me advise you about those important matters you have to deal with; such as ‘meeting people’, ‘recognising the status of knowledgeable individuals’, ‘rectifying the Nafs’, ‘taking care of people’, ‘establishing friendship with ordinary and extraordinary people’ and being

aware of the situations the ordinary people face. When you leave after you have gained knowledge, you should always follow my advice which will improve your knowledge and protect it from faults. When you enter Basra, people will greet you and will come to see you. They will recognise your status you rightfully deserve; you should also show respect and honour to them in view of their rank and position. Show respect to the noble people, reverence to the knowledgeable people, veneration [i.e. honour and respect] towards the elders and affection towards the young ones. (Imam-e-A’zam ki Wasiyyatain, pp. 25-27)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that the great spiritual guide of hundreds of millions of followers of Hanafi school of thought, Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه advised his student to show respect towards the elders and affection towards the young ones. Remember! Those who show reverence towards the elders are also considered honourable in society. And sometimes, even big sinners are blessed with forgiveness for respecting elders.

Attained salvation due to respecting Waliyyullah (saint)

A sinner was once washing his hands and face, sitting at a riverbank. In the meantime, the great spiritual guide of millions of Hanbali Muslims, Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived there and sat at a short distance from him, making Wudu. When that person noticed that the water used by him was flowing towards a great blessed saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he did not like it and sat where water used by Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was flowing towards him. How greatly he was rewarded for this blessed act of respecting a blessed saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! When he passed away, someone saw him in his dream and asked how he was treated. He replied: By the blessing of showing respect to Sayyiduna Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forgiven me. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 196)

کروں عالموں کی کبھی بھی نہ توہین

بنا دے مجھے با اَدب یا اِلٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! It is learnt that the act of disrespecting the elders results in our own loss and the act of respecting them results in our benefit. It

is the saying of an Arabic poet: ‘ مَاوَصَلَ مَنْ وَصَلَ اِلَّا بِالْحُرْمَۃِ وَمَاسَقَطَ مَنْ سَقَطَ اِلَّا بِتَرْکِ الْحُرْمَۃِ ’ Whatever a person attained, is only due to virtue of showing respect and whatever a person lost, lost only due to not showing respect .

Undoubtedly, those who respect their elders from the bottom of their hearts are considered honourable and eminent in society. People begin to show devotion towards them and their admirers keep increasing and after all there is a time when those show respect towards the elders become dignified and distinguished in the world. Our teachers are also included in our elders. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to show great respect and reverence towards their teachers, and in the presence of their teachers they would remain silent and would continue learning and some would show such a deep reverence for their teachers that they would not give ruling in the lifetime of their teachers as they consider it their disrespect. In this connection, let’s listen to two parables:

Halqah Dars of Imam Husayn

Appreciating the gathering of Islamic teachings of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to a Qurayshi: Go to Masjid-un-Nabawi, there you will see people sitting with utmost respect and concentration as if birds are sitting on their heads. Learn that this is the gathering of Sayyiduna Imam Abu ‘Abdullah Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Further he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ commented: This gathering will be absolutely free from jokes and fun. (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 14, pp. 79)

Similarly, when anyone would ask any question to Sayyiduna Sahl Bin ‘Abdullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not reply. Once he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suddenly sat leaning his back against the wall and said to the people: Ask me today whatever you want. People humbly said: What is the matter today? You did not tend to answer any question. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: It was due to the respect of my teacher, ‘Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ’ I used to avoid answering the question until he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was alive. People were greatly surprised to listen to him, because, as per their knowledge, Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was still alive. Anyhow, upon this reply, date and

day was immediately noted and then reports came later that just a little while before his words, Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 229)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also show respect to our teachers because they have done great favours to us. Through education, they inculcate awareness into our soul, teach us how to distinguish between good and bad, make us a good and important citizen of society and they try to improve our conduct and character. Sayyiduna Ibn Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: In comparison to acquire more knowledge, we need to acquire more Adab (respect).

(Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 317)

While teaching the respect of teachers, A’la Hadrat, Mujaddid-e-Deen-o-Millat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said:

1. Student should not precede the teacher in conversation.

2. In his absence, he should not sit at his place.

3. While walking, he should not walk ahead of him.

4. When spending on his teacher, he should not show miserliness. It means whatever teacher requires, he should present it to him by all means and when the teacher accepts it, he (student) should consider it his favour and privilege.

5. Right of teacher should be given preference above the rights of all Muslims and parents.

6. Even though if he has learnt even a single word from his teacher, he should show humbleness before him.

7. If the teacher is inside the house, he should not knock at the door rather wait for him to come out.

8. Student should not let any trouble cause to his teacher on his part, because if the teacher receives any trouble from any (student), he (student) remains deprived of the blessings of knowledge.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 376, 638)

Dear Islamic brothers! The teacher is blessed with the status of spiritual father; therefore, students should seek knowledge from their teacher whilst keeping the respect of teacher in view. It is stated in Tafseer Kabeer: Teacher is more affectionate to his student than his parents because the parents protect him from fire of the world and troubles whereas teachers save him from the hellfire and the calamities of Hereafter. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 1, pp. 401)

ادب اُستادِ دینی کا مجھے آقا عطا کردو

دل و جاں سے کروں ان کی اطاعت یَا رَسُولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Treat your elder brother well

Sayyiduna Jareer Bin Haazim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Once I dreamt that my head is in my hands. For the interpretation of dream, I told my dream to Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه (who had great expertise in dream interpretation). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه inquired me if anyone of my parents was alive. I replied in the negative. Thereafter he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه inquired whether you had any elder brother. I responded in positive. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his matter. Treat him gracefully and do not cut off ties with him.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 210, Hadees 7928)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that the elder brother’s position, as per respect, is parallel to father’s but after listening to his status elder brother should also not make up his mind that only young ones should pay him respect whether he becomes harsh to them, whether he humiliates them in front of others, if they happen to commit any mistake, he starts swearing and punishing. To keep his awe and aggression, he gazes at them angrily all the time.

Remember! Islam has illustrated the rights and etiquettes of everyone. While the younger ones have been urged to show respect to the elders, elders have also been commanded to treat the younger ones with affection. In this context listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. لَیْسَ مِنَّا مَنْ لَّمْ یَرْحَمْ صَغِیْرَنَا وَیُوَقِّرْ کَبِیْرَنَا وَیَعْرِفْ لَنَا حَقَّنَا: He is not amongst us who does not have mercy on our young ones and does not respect our elders and does not know the rights of a Muslim.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 355, Hadees 12276)

Show respect to the elders, have mercy on young ones, you and I will come on the Day of Judgement like this; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم joined his fingers together. (Al-Matalib-ul-‘Aaliyyah, vol. 7, pp. 570, Hadees 353)

بڑے جتنے بھی ہیں گھر میں اَدب کرتا رہوں سب کا

کروں چھوٹے بہن بھائی پہ شفقت یَا رَسُولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Daurah [Madani visit]

Dear Islamic brothers! Madani Daurah [Madani visit] is one of the 12 Madani activities. According to the method prescribed by Madani Markaz, the people at homes and shops in the vicinity of every Masjid and those wandering around are called towards righteousness once every week. For the purpose of seeking the blessings of the Sadaqah of the modesty and decency of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and developing the mindset of getting rid of impermissible practices and customs, associate yourselves with the Madani environment and strive hard to take part in the 12 Madani activities for calling people towards righteousness as enjoining good and forbidding evil is that noble act.

‘Allamah Zurqaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in ‘ Sharh Mawahib ’: Specially during Hajj season, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had this blessed habit that when Arab tribes from far flung areas would gather in Makkah, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would visit each tribe for preaching of Islam. Similarly, from time to time, many fairs and festivals used to take place in Arab and people

from different tribes used to converge there. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to visit these places for preaching of Islam. (Sharh Mawahib, vol. 2, pp. 73)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami motivates and encourages us to act upon the Sunnah of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through weekly ‘Madani Daurah’ activity. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the noble act of Madani Daurah, numbers of Namazi increases in Masajid. Therefore, we should also struggle to perform this noble act committedly. Now let’s listen to Madani parable:

Boss of famous band repents

In Mandsaur (M.P. India) there was a very famous band a young man used to run. As a result of the individual effort of an Islamic brother, that young man did I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1426 AH in the company of devotees of Rasool. During I’tikaf he heard about the harms of sins, which softened his heart. The company of devotees of Rasool affected him so much that he repented of his sins. He made the intention of growing a beard and travelling with a Madani Qafilah for 30 days in the company of devotees of Rasool. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He has given up his sinful and Haraam profession of playing music.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want our children to become obedient and respectful and become the source of our salvation then start giving Madani Tarbiyyat (training) to your children just from today, and in order to providing correct Madani Tarbiyyat, buy a remarkable book ‘ Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad ’ and a booklet ‘ Awlad kay Huqooq ’ from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and read them.

Maktaba-tul-Madinah is a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami which has been serving Muslims across the world through spreading the Islamic teachings by committedly publishing countless books and booklets, releasing cassettes, CDs and VCDs of Madani Muzakarah and Sunnah-inspiring speeches .

All devotees of Rasool, after the weekly congregation, should buy something surely, even at least one booklet from Maktaba-tul-Madinah . Firstly, read it yourself then give it to someone else to read. Thus you will increase your Islamic knowledge and calling people towards righteousness will also be continued. If monthly magazine of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Mahnamah Faizan-e-Madinah’ is subscribed, then it will help a lot to develop Madani environment at home اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant progress to all departments of Dawat-e-Islami including Maktaba-tul-Madinah by leaps and bounds.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Showing respect for the relatives

Dear Islamic brothers! Islam has not only described the rights and respect for parents, teachers, elder siblings, spiritual guide and other elders but also the rights of close relatives. The relations with close relatives are usually by virtue of our parents, and behaving gracefully towards them is also a form of the respect of our parents. Respect and reverence of relatives does not just lie in this that the younger ones come in the presence of relatives with lowered eyes and kiss their hands etc., rather showing good behaviour to our relatives and preventing ourselves from cutting ties with them is also called an act of respect.

Quranic command of Silah Rihmi (good behaviour to our relatives)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ الَّذِیْ تَسَآءَلُوْنَ بِهٖ وَ الْاَرْحَامَؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ كَانَ عَلَیْكُمْ رَقِیْبًا(۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Fear Allah in Whose name you claim (your rights from one another) and be mindful of your blood relations; indeed Allah is always seeing you. (Part 4, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 1)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The way Salah, Sawm, Hajj, Zakah etc. are necessary for Muslims, similarly, it is also extremely necessary to fulfil the rights of relatives. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: It is very effective for the world and the Hereafter to treat the dear and near ones well; this is better for our life, death and the Hereafter. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 4, pp. 455,456)

‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There is a consensus of entire Ummah on this thing that Silah Rihm (treat relatives well) is Wajib Muslims have been unconditionally commanded in Ahadees to treat relatives with kindness. The words ‘ ذَوِي الۡقُرۡبٰي ’ (i.e. relatives) were unconditionally stated in the Holy Quran.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further stated: One can treat his relatives with kindness in different ways. For example, giving them gifts, providing them help if they need it, saying Salam to them, meeting them, talking to them and treating them gracefully and nicely. If a person is in a foreign country, he should remain in correspondence with his relatives so that relationship is not broken off. If possible, he should come to his country so that ties with his relatives are strengthened. (Over recent years, letter writing has been replaced by other ways of communicating. Especially through Internet facility, people can easily correspond with one another and can strengthen their relations. All these communication means are permissible because here the purpose is to maintain the ties.) (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, vol. 3, pp. 558)

Ten virtues of treating relatives with kindness

Sayyiduna Faqeeh Abul Lays Samarqandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There are ten virtues of treating relatives with kindness: (1) It brings about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (2) It pleases people. (3) It delights angels. (4) It earns you praise from Muslims. (5) It upsets Satan. (6) It increases age. (7) It brings blessings in sustenance. (8) It pleases the deceased forefathers (i.e. the Muslim father and grandfather). (9) It fosters harmony. (10) It increases reward after demise because people make Du’a for such a person. (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 73)

Dear Islamic brothers! Showing respect to the close relatives, behaving gracefully towards them and maintaining ties with them forever is surely a privilege but alas! At present some people either maintain ties due to some compulsion or due to any vested interest whereas naïve Muslims, due to their personal reasons, get displease with their relatives unnecessarily and do not like to meet them for many years, and if, ever, they come across at any time, they even dislike to see one another and some even comment: ‘We are good to those who are good to us and those who are bad for us we are bad for them.’ It is for the reason, some people invite only those relatives who invite them or they have any vested interest in it. On contrary, poor relatives are not invited due to their poverty and they also do not like to maintain ties with them even to the extent of saying Salam etc. Thus even the relatives deserving Zakah are constantly ignored.

In short! Now the spirit of affection, sincerity and devotion seem to have faded amongst the relatives even though our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Do not cut ties with one another, do not turn away, do not have grudge, do not bear jealousy, and O the bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Be friend with one another, it is not permissible for any Muslim to desert his brother for more than three days. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 376, Hadees 1942)

بھائی حق مت مارنا گھر بار کا ورنہ ہوگا مُستَحِق تُو نار کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! There was a time when each and every Muslim was respectful, observed good manners and decorum honouring one another and reflected excellent etiquettes. They were decent and morally upright as well as they were paradigm of following Sunnah of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let alone son and daughter to look their parents in the eyes, disciples and students to look their spiritual guides and teachers in the eyes, they would even feel afraid standing before teachers and parents, during conversation they would keep their eyes lowered. They would suppress their voices and would obey their instruction. Even in their absence, they would show respect,

and would mention them by their appellations instead of their names. In short! Every time they would regard their status and position, and would show good manners towards the elders and younger people.

But Alas! Now almost everyone amongst us is unaware of these Islamic rules of decorum and ethical codes, unaware of good manners and etiquettes and unaware of Shar’i rules and laws. Everyone is struggling hard to excel others in indecency and unethical attitude trampling the honour and sanctity of our respectful social living system. Today’s son not only sees his father in his eyes but also talks to him holding his collar. Today’s daughter, though, does not play the role of helping hand, but hurts her mother surely. The younger ones are not respectful; the elders are not affectionate; the friends are not loyal; neighbours are not merciful; the daughter is not polite; the mother is strict; student is not decent; teacher is not a man of virtuous character. By dint of the deprivation of Islamic teachings and righteous company, neither do parents give Islamic upbringing to their children nor do children serve their parents.

In short! These are our own disrespectful acts and careless attitude that we ourselves have caused destruction to the sanctity of our family and social life. Though when we look into the blessed lives of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم, we learn that they used to show utmost respect and reverence towards their elders.

Respect of spiritual guide

‘Allamah Imam Abu Qaasim ‘Abdul Kareem Qushayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to appear in the court of his spiritual guide showing great respect. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: In my early days whenever I would join the gathering of my spiritual guide (Sayyiduna Abu ‘Ali Daqqaaq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه), I would observe Sawm on that day then I would do ritual bath thereafter I would join the blessed gathering of my spiritual guide. Many times it happened that I would reach the door of Madrasah but would return out of shyness. If ever I would enter and reach in the middle of my Madrasah, a sensation would pass through my body and my whole body would turn numb to such extent that even if a needle would be pricked I perhaps would not feel anything.

(Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 328)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen people of early time used to show such a deep respect and reverence towards their spiritual guides as if the respect of spiritual guide was running into their veins. Their parables full of surprising acts of respect and humbleness make us speechless that could a spiritual guide be respected in such a unique way? It is for the reason they attain utmost blessings from their spiritual guides.

Remember! It is obligatory upon every disciple to show respect and reverence towards his spiritual guide. The respect of parents, teachers and elder brother has its own importance but the spiritual guide is that great personality, by virtue of his blessed company, disciples attain the mindset of protecting Iman, identify the corrupt beliefs, learn the purpose of life, have aversion towards sins, have eagerness to carry out virtuous acts, have honour in the hearts of people, clean their inner-selves, inculcate the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, develop the devotion towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in their hearts, improve their worldly and Hereafter lives.

In short! There are numerous favours of spiritual guide upon his disciples, therefore, if any fortunate person gets the privilege to be the disciple of Kamil Murshid (perfect spiritual guide) after associating his blessed company, he should become respectful and obedient too in order to seek the blessings of his spiritual guide. Those disciples show great respect towards their spiritual guides from the bottom of their hearts and show no lack in their etiquettes and fulfil the rights and Adaab of spiritual guides, such privileged disciples make progress and emerge to be the beloved and chosen devotees. How important is the respect and reverence of the spiritual guide, determine it from the following blessed sayings of the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: When any disciple does not regard the respect, he reverts where he had started. (Risala Qushayriyyah, pp. 319)

Someone asked Khuwajah Qutbuddeen Bakhtiyar Kaaki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: What is the level of rights of one’s spiritual guide upon his disciple? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: If any disciple all his lifelong on the way to Hajj carries his spiritual guide on his head, still, the rights of spiritual guide would not be fulfilled.

(Hasht Bihisht, pp. 397)

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: It is the dignity of a disciple that never he develops this thought in his heart that he has repaid the favours of his spiritual guide though he serves his spiritual guide for one thousand years and spend millions of rupees on him because the disciple who develops the idea of repaying the favours of spiritual guide after such and such services, has actually derailed from the way of Tareeqat. It means he has nothing to do with the blessing of his spiritual guide.

(Al-Anwar-ul-Qudsiyah, pp. 27)

مُطیع اپنے مُرشد کا مجھ کو بنا دے میں ہو جاؤں ان پر فدا یا الٰہی

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen that how great blessing is the respect of the spiritual guide. One who has the privilege to get this blessing, becomes successful. In today’s era, if you want to see the lofty and spiritual status of any respectful disciple then you can see Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه whose spiritual guide is Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah ‘Allamah Maulana Ziyauddin Ahmad Madani Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه showed his profound devotion towards Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed His blessings upon him that today he has become renowned all over the world.

دُنیا بھر میں فضلِ ربّ سے چرچے ہیں عطارؔ کے

بڑے بڑے گُن گاتے ہیں ان کے سُتھرے کِردار کے

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remain pleased with us and we become the beloved and chosen disciple of our spiritual guide then we have to stick to the golden principle of respect and reverence. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing, we will achieve success.

سدا پیر و مُرشد رہیں مجھ سے راضی کبھی بھی نہ ہوں یہ خفا یا الٰہی

بنادے مجھے ایک در کا بنا دے میں ہر دم رہوں با وفا یا الٰہی

Motivation for Madani In’aam no. 7

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is not only himself a man of great virtue and respect even, for teaching respect and reverence to the Muslims, he authored a very informative booklet ‘ Ihtiram-e-Muslim ’ [Respect of Muslim]. In this sinful era, he has provided a mechanism for performing good deeds in the form of a questionnaire namely ‘72 Madani In’amaat’. Here is Madani In’aam no. 7: ‘ Today, did you speak softly with everybody (at home and outside) whether younger or older, even with your mother (and your children and their mother)? [In Urdu, address others by ‘Aap’ instead of ‘Tu’; and say ‘Jee’ instead of ‘Hayn’.]’

While acting upon the above-mentioned Madani In’aam, we should also talk to everyone in a polite way. We must not use rough language, neither in our home nor outside. It has been observed that some people are very good as long as they are out of their homes, but the moment they enter the home, they roar like a lion, shout, and speak in a rude way even hurt others. Such types of people should bear in mind the following blessed Hadees of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘ خَیْرُکُـمْ خَیْرُکُـمْ لِنِسَائِہٖ وَلِبَنَاتِہٖ ’ i.e., The best amongst you is he who is good to his women [wives] and daughters.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 415, Hadees 8720)

The renowned commentator of Glorious Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The man with courteous manner is that who is courteous who behave gracefully towards his wife and children as he remains engaged with them all time. Being courteous with strange people is not the mark of one’s excellent behaviour because they meet occasionally. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 96)

Dear Islamic brothers! This great gift of Madani In’amaat is a best source of improving our world and Hereafter. Though acting upon it, we can have the yearning and motivation for reforming ourselves and the people of entire world as well as we can overcome our mistakes through the assessment of our good and bad deeds by the marking ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ questions. It is as if these Madani In’amaat bring us in a self-accountability court asking about the

deeds done in the whole day providing us an opportunity towards our reform and salvation.

In fact this Madani In’amaat booklet is a compilation of deeds leading to Jannah and saving us from the Hell. It is as if Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه observed the misery of our non-practicing behaviour and provided us with a beautiful method of our reform so that we could have Istiqamat (steadfastness) over Fikr-e-Madinah (contemplation of Hereafter). It is for the reason, many Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters, students fill in the blanks given in the booklet of Madani In’amaat daily, and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by its blessing, obstacles they face during their efforts to become virtuous and to protect themselves from sins are gradually removed and one makes up his mind to have aversion towards sins and have yearning to guard his Iman and to follow Sunnah.

مَدَنی اِنعامات کی بھی مَرحَبا کیا بات ہے

قُربِ حَق کے طالِبوں کے واسطے سَوغات ہے

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! Showing respect to the elders and giving affection to the younger ones, in the light of Glorious Quran and blessed Hadees, is the best act.

Those who show respect to the elders are considered honourable in the society.

The noble deeds of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی also guide us that we should always show respect to the elders and show affection to the younger ones.

Showing respect to the elders is the outcome of good upbringing of parents and the virtuous character of human.

Respecting the elderly is the source of obtaining the neighbourhood of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannah.

Let’s all make intention that from today we would show respect to our parents اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and will also show affection to our siblings اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us privilege to show respect to our elders and show affection to our younger ones.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Wearing shoes: 7 Madani pearls

1. A saying of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Wear shoes sufficiently, because it is as if one is on a ride (that is, he does not tire much) as long as he is wearing shoes.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1161, Hadees 2096)

Clean out the shoes before wearing them so that any insects or stones are removed.

First put on the right shoe then the left. When taking them off, take off the left one first then the right.

Men should wear men’s shoes and women should wear women’s shoes.

1. A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Women should not wear men’s shoes. Furthermore, all those things which differentiate the two genders are not allowed for the opposite, whether it is the action or appearance. Neither should men adopt feminine styles nor should women adopt masculine styles.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 65, vol. 16)

2. When you sit down take off the shoes as this gives comfort to the feet .

3. One of the causes of poverty is to leave the shoe lying upside down when found like that. If you see a used shoe upside down, put it upright .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

