اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Parables of Du’as being Answered

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Your recitation of Salat upon me is protection for your Du’as, it leads to the pleasure of your Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ and it is a cause of the purity of your deeds. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 270)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Fudaalah Bin ‘Ubayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting in the Masjid, a man came and offered Salah and made Du’a saying these words: ‘ اَللّٰهُمَّ اغۡفِرۡلِيۡ وَارۡحَمۡنِيۡ ’ i.e. ‘ O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive me and have mercy upon me .’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ عَجِلۡتَ اَ يُّهَا الۡمُصَلِّيۡ ’ ‘ O one who performed Salah, you have hurried . (Then mentioning the method of Du’a he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said), When you complete your Salah, first praise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in a manner that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ deserves, and recite Salat upon me, then make Du’a.

The narrator has said: After him another person offered Salah, then praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recited Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ اَيُّهَا الۡمُصَلِّيۡ اُدۡعُ تُجَبۡ ’ O Salah offering person! Make Du’a; it will be answered .

(Tirmizi, Kitab-ud-Da’waat, vol. 5, pp. 290, Hadees 3487)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned Hadees, it has been learnt that if a person wants his Du’a to be answered, then he must glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the beginning of the Du’a, then recite Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, or rather he should glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recite Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the end of the Du’a as well.

It is stated on page 68 of the 318-page book entitled ‘ Fadaail-e-Du’a ’ [Virtues of Du’a], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, about the manners of Du’a that the blessed father of A’la Hadrat, ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One should glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the beginning and in the end because there is none other than Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who likes His own glorification; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets very pleased on a little praise and grants countless of blessings.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said: One should recite Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his blessed family and his Companions, as Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is accepted in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does

not do such that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts the beginning and the end of the Du’a and rejects the middle of it. (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 67)

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

اِنَّ الدُّعَآءَ مَوۡقُوۡفٌ بَيۡنَ السَّمَآءِ وَالۡاَرۡضِ لَا يَصۡعَدُ مِنۡهُ شَئٌ حَتّٰي تُصَلِّيَ عَلٰي نَبِيِّكَ ﴿ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّمَ ﴾

i.e. Du’a is restricted between the earth and the sky; it does not go upwards until you recite Salat upon your Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 28, Hadees 486)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated: ‘ اَلدُّعَاءُ مَحْجُوْبٌ عَنِ اللّٰہِ حَتّٰی یُصَلّٰی عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَہْلِ بَیْتِہٖ ’, Du’a is the Hijab from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until Salat is not sent upon Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his blessed family.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, vol. 1, pp. 35, Hadees 3212)

A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: O ‘Azeez! Du’a is a bird and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is its largest feather; so how can a bird fly without its main feather!

A bird cannot fly without its wing’s main feather (Shahper). Similarly, Du’a is like a bird and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi is like its main feather. Therefore, how will the bird, which does not have the main feather in its wing, fly? Similarly, how can a Du’a be answered, which is devoid of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi?

(Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 69)

Therefore, we should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly, no matter if we are standing, sitting or walking, in particular, we must recite Salat upon the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the beginning and the end of our Du’as. By

virtue of its blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our Du’as will be answered in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

نظر کا نُور دلوں کیلئے قَرار دُرُود

عَقِیدتوں کا چَمن، رُوح کا نِکھار دُرُود

چراغِ یاسِ مُسلسل کے گُھپ اَندھیروں میں

غَموں کی دُھوپ میں ہے ابرِ سایہ دار دُرُود

دُرُود رُوح کی بالِیدگی کا ساماں ہے

جَبِینِ شوق کو دیتا ہے اک نِکھار دُرُود

دُرُود نغمہئ نعتِ نبی کا زِینہ ہے

سدا بہار دُعاؤں کا ہے وقار دُرُود

گُلاب ذِہن کے پردوں پہ کِھلنے لگتے ہیں

زَباں پہ جب بھی مِری آتا ہے مُشکبار دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Du’a is a great source of attaining lots of blessings in this world and the Hereafter. Du’a is an extremely easy and a proven source of having Munajat (i.e. praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and adopting humbleness), attaining His closeness, getting wishes fulfilled from His great court, becoming deserving of His grace and favours, of attaining forgiveness and getting the solution of worldly and Hereafter problems and difficulties. The act of making Du’a is a habit of the beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and it is also a great act of worship. Making Du’a is a Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Du’a is a very great blessing and privilege from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the sinful bondmen.

The importance and appreciation of Du’a can be judged by the fact that, in the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is not only commanding His bondmen to make Du’a

in His court, but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also blessing them with the good news that their Du’as will be answered. It is stated in Ayah 60 of Surah Al-Mu`min, part 24:

وَ قَالَ رَبُّکُمُ ادۡعُوۡ نِیۡۤ اَسۡتَجِبۡ لَکُمۡ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And your Rab has proclaimed, ‘Pray to Me, I shall answer your prayer.’ (Part 24, Surah Al-Mu`min, Ayah 60)

Similarly, in Ayah 186 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

وَ اِذَ ا سَاَلَکَ عِبَادِیۡ عَنِّیۡ فَاِنِّیۡ قَرِ یۡبٌ ؕ اُجِیۡبُ دَ عۡوَ ۃَ الدَّ اعِ اِ ذَ ا دَعَانِ ۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And O dear Rasool (Muhammad), when My bondmen question you concerning Me, then surely I am close; I answer the prayer of the supplicant when he calls on Me. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 186)

Dear Islamic brothers! If the blessed days of the blessed life of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are studied, then we will learn that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to make different kinds of Du’as as his routine. This blessed practice of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also to teach his Ummah. For example, Du’a at the time of entering the home, Du’a at the time of leaving the home, Du’a at the time of sleeping, Du’a after waking up, Du’a before eating a meal, Du’a after eating a meal, Du’a at the time of wearing clothes, Du’a at the time of applying oil, etc. Not only did our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mention the importance of Du’a from time to time, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also persuaded us to remain busy in making Du’a day and night. Let’s listen to some blessed Ahadees about the importance and excellence of Du’a:

1. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَلدُّعَاءُ مُخُّ الۡعِبَادَةِ ’ Du’a is the essence of worship. (Jami’ Tirmizi, pp. 243, vol. 5, Hadees 3382)

1. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Nothing is better than Du’a before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 243, Hadees 3381)

2. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The person for whom the door of Du’a is opened, then the door of mercy is opened for him. Among the requests, submitted to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, made in Du’a, the favourite one is about safety. The troubles which a person has suffered from and the troubles which have not come yet, only Du’a benefits in all of them. So O bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make it compulsory (upon yourselves) to make Du’a.

(Tirmizi, Kitab-ud-Da’waat, vol. 5, pp. 243, Hadees 3559)

3. Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Should I not tell you of such a thing that will bring you protection against your enemy and increase your sustenance; make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night because Du’a is the weapon of a Mu`min (true believer). (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 2, pp. 201, Hadees 1806)

Dear Islamic brothers! Many virtues of making Du’a have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Du’a is highly effective to get rid of troubles and difficulties. It also brings about an increase in sustenance. Du’a is a source of protection against enemies and it is also a weapon of a true believer. A true believer can overcome great troubles and tough circumstances by virtue of Du’a, therefore, every Muslim should remember Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in times of joy and sorrow, and should sincerely make Du’a in order to attain goodness in this world and the Hereafter. He should make Du’a to get rid of any type of trouble. He should not be heedless of Du’a.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember that Du’a is the most superior act of worship through which a Muslim, in fact, talks to his Rab. It is stated in a

blessed Hadees: ‘ اَفْضَلُ الْعِبَادَةِ الدُّعَاءُ ’, i.e. Du’a is the most superior act of worship. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 29, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, Hadees 3131)

Therefore, as all acts of worship have certain conditions and manners, upon which the acceptance of these acts of worship depend. Similarly, Du’a also has some manners which have their own significance and for the Du’a to be answered. If these manners are taken into consideration in Du’a, the possibility of the Du’a being answered will increase. Therefore, if we want our Du’as to be answered in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should take the manners of Du’a into consideration.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It is extremely useful to study a 326-page book, namely ‘ Fadaail-e-Du’a ’ [Virtues of Du’a], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, in order to learn about those manners which prove beneficial for the Du’as to be answered. This book is, in fact, the simple version of the book named, ‘ Ahsan-ul-Wi’a li Adaab-id-Du’a ’ written by the father of A’la Hadrat, ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

This book contains virtues of Du’a, manners of Du’a, causes leading to the answering of Du’a, times when Du’as are answered, places where Du’as are answered, the significance of the blessed names of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in Du’as being answered, causes that create obstacles in Du’as being answered, advantages of making Du’a and important questions and answers about Du’a. It would not be wrong to say that this book is necessary to be in every home, therefore, you should obtain this book today from a Maktaba-tul-Madinah stall. Study it yourself and also persuade others to do the same. Furthermore, it can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net

Let’s listen to some manners of Du’a and some parables of Du’as being answered.

Dear Islamic brothers! Part of the manners of Du’a is that the person who makes Du’a should call out to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with His beautiful names. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed an angel upon His holy name ‘ اَ رْحَمُ الرَّاحِمِیْن ’: Whoever utters it three times, the angel calls out: Ask as ‘ اَ رْحَمُ الرَّاحِمِیْن ’ is paying attention to you.

(Al-Mustadrak, Kitab-ud-Du’a, vol. 2, pp. 239, Hadees 2040)

Similarly, uttering ‘ یَا رَبَّنَا ’ five times is also very effective for the Du’a to be answered. After mentioning this blessed word five times in the Holy Quran it has been said:

فَا سۡتَجَابَ لَہُمۡ رَ بُّہُمۡ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So their Lord accepted their prayer.

(Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 195)

It has been narrated by Imam Ja’far Sadiq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: The person, who utters ‘ یَا رَبَّنَا ’ five times at the time of helplessness, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will protect him from the thing he is scared of and whatever he needs, will be granted.

(Ruh-ul-Ma’ani, vol. 4, pp. 512)

Dear Islamic brothers! Another manner of Du’a is that a good deed should be performed before making Du’a. Sayyiduna Imam Jazri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned:

اٰدَابُ الدُّعَاءِ مِنْھَا تَقْدِیْمُ عَمَلٍ صَالِحٍ وَذِکْرُہُ عِنْدَ الشِّدَّۃِ

i.e. To remember Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every difficulty and to perform a good deed before making Du’a are amongst the manners of Du’a. (Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp.23)

When a person makes Du’a by using a Waseelah (medium), like a good deed he has sincerely performed in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ answers his Du’a for the sake of that Waseelah. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable regarding this:

It is mentioned on page 139 of the book ‘ Faizan Riyad-us-Saliheen ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: In the previous era, three men were travelling somewhere, it suddenly began to rain; in order to seek refuge, they entered a cave to spend the night. When they entered the cave, a rock slid from the mountain and blocked the entrance of the cave. Having seen this they said: There is only one way to get rid of this trouble and that is to make Du’a by presenting the Waseelah of our good deeds in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One of them said, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My parents were old, but I did not give my children and servants milk before serving my parents first. One day I ended up very far away in search for wood. When I returned I found that my parents had fallen asleep. I brought some milk for them but felt it was inappropriate to awaken them and I did not want to give milk to my family before my parents, so I spent the whole night standing with the milk bowl in my hand. When the morning dawned, I offered them the milk. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If I had performed this deed only for Your pleasure, then bring us salvation from this trouble! By virtue of his Du’a, the rock moved slightly, but not enough for them to exit.

The second person said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I loved my uncle’s daughter very much. I expressed my evil desire to her, but she refused. One day, she came to me for help, being a victim of poverty. I gave her 100 dinars on condition that she would satisfy my evil intentions. She had no choice and agreed. When we were alone and I overpowered her, she said, ‘Fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and do not commit this sin.’ On hearing this I left her and abstained from the sin, though I deeply loved her. I did not get the dinars back from her as well. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If this deed of mine was solely for Your pleasure, then bring us

salvation from this trouble! The rock moved a bit more, but still not enough for them to exit.

The third man said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I employed some men for labour, and all of them except one took their wages. I invested his wage in business and made a lot of profit. Sometime later he came to me and demanded his wage. I responded, ‘These camels, cows, goats and servants that you see all belong to you.’ He said, ‘Are you joking with me?’ I replied, ‘No, I am not, it is the truth.’ On hearing this he took all his wealth and went away leaving nothing. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If this deed of mine was solely for Your pleasure then please save us from this difficulty. As soon as he made the Du’a, the rock moved away completely and they exited the cave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1465, Hadees 2743)

Regarding this blessed Hadees ‘Allamah Ibn Battaal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If a person has a good intention and makes Du’a through the Waseelah of those deeds which he performed purely for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then it is hoped that his Du’a will be answered. When the people trapped in the cave made Du’a through the Waseelah of those deeds which they performed only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and were hopeful that the entrance of the cave would open due to these Waseelahs, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed them by answering their Du’as and granted them salvation from the cave.

(Sharh Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Adab, vol. 9, pp. 193)

نہ کر رَد کوئی اِلتجاء یا اِلٰہی ہو مقبول ہر اِک دُعا یا اِلٰہی

رہے ذِکر آٹھوں پَہَر میرے لب پر تِرا یا اِلٰہی تِرا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has also been learnt in the light of blessed Hadees and its explanation that the good deed which is performed only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will benefit one in this world and in the Hereafter.

Worship along with showing off is not only useless, but it also causes troubles. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The person who adorns himself with good deeds for the sake of the people, the reality of which is something different in the knowledge of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes him away from His court. (Jami’-ul-Ahadees, vol. 7, pp. 169, Hadees 21660)

Furthermore, it is stated in a blessed Hadees about a person who performs a good deed just to show off, and not for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: On the Day of Judgement, the show-off will be told: Go to that person, for whom you used to perform the deed, to get your reward.

(Ithaf-us-Sadat-il-Muttaqeen, vol. 10, pp. 73)

Nevertheless, we should also perform a good deed according to our ability before making Du’a. It was the manner of many pious saints that they used to offer two Rak’aat Nafl before making Du’a.

When the nephew of Safwan Bin Muhriz was imprisoned by Ibn-e-Ziyad, the cruel ruler of that time, he was very worried and requested the rich and the influential people of Basra for the release of his nephew, but could not succeed. Ibn-e-Ziyad turned down the request of everyone. Safwan Bin Muhriz spent the night in a very terrible state. In the last part of the night, he suddenly felt sleepy; someone said to him in a dream: O Safwan Bin Muhriz! Get up and ask for your need. Having seen this dream his eyes opened. His body started trembling due to a strange fear. He performed Wudu and offered two Rak’aat Salah and then whilst weeping he started making Du’a in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . While he was busy making Du’a, Ibn-e-Ziyad was in his home suffering from restlessness and pain. He ordered his soldiers to take him to the nephew of Safwan Bin Muhriz. The soldiers immediately accompanied Ibn-e-Ziyad and the cruel ruler started headed towards the jail. Having reached there he ordered the soldiers to open the doors of the jail and said loudly: Immediately release the nephew of Safwan Bin Muhriz, due to him I have spent the whole night growing restless. Having heard this, the soldiers immediately released the nephew of Safwan Bin Muhriz and brought him

before Ibn-e-Ziyad. Ibn-e-Ziyad spoke very gently and said: Go! Go happily to your home; there is no penalty upon you. Having said this, Ibn-e-Ziyad released him.

The nephew immediately went to his uncle, Safwan Bin Muhriz and knocked at the door. A voice was heard from inside: Who is it? He replied: Your nephew. Safwan Bin Muhriz was astonished upon the sudden arrival of his nephew. He opened the door and took him inside and then asked what had happened to him. The nephew related the whole incident of the night. Safwan Bin Muhriz gave thanks and welcomed his nephew back.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 2, pp. 220)

مِہرباں تُو ہی تُو ہی مددگار اُس دُکھی دل کا تُو حامیِ کار

جس کو دُنیا نے ٹھکرا دِیا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the manners of Du’a is that the person making Du’a should be humble; his heart should be present in his Du’a and he should believe that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will answer his Du’a through His grace and blessing. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

اُدْعُوا اللَّهَ وَاَنْتُمْ مُوقِنُونَ بِالْاِجَابَۃِ وَاعْلَمُوا اَنَّ اللَّهَ لَا يَسْتَجِيبُ دُعَاءً مِنْ قَلْبٍ غَافِلٍ لَاهٍ

Make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in such a way that you are absolutely sure that your Du’a will be answered and remember that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not hear the Du’a of a heedless heart. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 292, Hadees 3490)

Once, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام passed by a person who was humbly making Du’a. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: If it were in my power, I would definitely fulfil his need. At the same time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna

Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O Musa! I am more Raheem and Kareem (Kind and Merciful etc.,) than you, but the thing is that this person is calling out Me, but his heart is towards his herd (goats) and I do not hear the Du’a of such a person, whose heart is towards others. When Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام informed this to that person, he made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from the heart and his need was fulfilled. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 56, pp. 178)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that one should not make Du’a without paying attention and merely in a customary way without being certain, but Du’a should be made with complete concentration in the correct manner. Sometimes, we make only one Du’a for a long time, but it is not answered, due to which Satan creates different types of evil thoughts in our hearts. To protect ourselves from satanic thoughts we should consider it as our own fault if the Du’a is not answered. We should also make our minds that there is no deficiency in the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, surely it is the uncertainty, lack of attention or any other deficiency in our Du’a that can become an obstacle due to which our Du’a is not being answered or there will be something good for us if our wish is not being fulfilled according to what we desire.

Once, Sultan Aurangzeb ‘Aalamgeer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited the luminous shrine of Sultan-ul-Hind, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . A blind beggar was raising his voice in the compound, ‘O Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! Bless me with sight.’ He asked the beggar for how long he had been begging for his eyesight. The beggar replied that many years have gone by, but my wish has not been fulfilled. The king then said, ‘I am coming back to you shortly after visiting the shrine. If you get back your eyesight, it is alright, otherwise, I will get you executed.’

Having said this, the king proceeded towards the shrine placing a guard by him. On the other hand, the beggar was begging in a state of anxiety, ‘O Khuwajah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! Earlier, it was only the problem of eyesight but now my life is in danger. If you do not help me, I will be killed.’ When the king

returned after visiting the shrine, the eyesight of the beggar was restored. The king said smilingly, ‘You were just paying lip service before and when you begged from the bottom of your heart in fear of losing your life, your wish was fulfilled.’

ہو چشمِ شِفا اب تو شَہا! سُوئے مریضاں

عِصیاں کے مَرَض نے ہے بڑا زور دکھایا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that the Du’a which is sincerely made from the heart by the shrines of the pious saints, through their Waseelahs, are also answered. Therefore, we should also visit the shrines of the pious saints, from time to time, for our needs and we should make Du’as through their Waseelahs. Talking about the manners of Du’a, the blessed father of A’la Hadrat, ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: One should present the blessed names of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Attributes, His Books especially the Holy Quran and angels and the blessed Rasools عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, especially the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the pious saints of Allah, especially Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as Waseelahs so that his needs can be fulfilled, because Du’as are answered by presenting the Waseelahs of the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 71)

The Holy Quran orders us to present a Waseelah in His court, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ ابۡتَغُوۡۤ ا اِلَیۡہِ الۡوَ سِیۡلَۃَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And seek the means towards Him.

(Part 6, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 35)

Therefore, one should present the Waseelah of the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that his Du’as can be heard and if possible, he should request the pious people to make Du’a for him, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ certainly answers the Du’a or curse of His pious bondmen.

Al-Haj, Maulana ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ such as the Islamic scholars, pious saints and all pious people curse anyone, it is very dangerous and destructive for that person. The curse of these pious people is like a sword against which there is no shield. It is a poisonous arrow of destruction which never misses its target. Therefore, it is compulsory for every Muslim to always be careful throughout his life that he should never disrespect the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and should not incur the curse of the pious saints, but he should always make his efforts to get the Du’as of these people because the curse of the pious people brings about destruction, while their Du’as bring about peace and safety. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 136)

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard and develop deep respect for the pious saints in our hearts:

Sayyiduna ‘Usman Bin ‘Ata رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه return home from the Masjid, he would say ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ loudly as he would reach the door of his home. In reply, his wife would also say ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to the courtyard, he would say ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’, and in reply, his wife would also say ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would do this every day.

One night, when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned home and said ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ as he reached the door, but he heard no answer. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached the courtyard and said ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’, he got no reply. When he reached the room and said ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’, even then his wife did not say ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ in reply. His wife gave him

food and then continued sitting on the floor quietly. It seemed as if she had been angry with him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not have any lamp for light, even then he remained patient. When he found his wife angry he asked: O bondwoman of Allah! Why are you upset? Having heard this she said: Your reputation is great before Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and he has great reverence for you. If you ask him for a servant, he would grant it to you. We do not have a single servant who could serve us. If we get a servant, things will become easy for us.

Having heard this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه raised his hands to make Du’a and humbly said in the court of Allah: O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make that person blind, who has poisoned the mind of my family members and tried to sow discord amongst us. His Du’a was instantly heard and one of the women in the neighbourhood suddenly went blind. In fact, she was the woman who came to his wife and said: If you ask your husband, he can get a servant from Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and if you get a servant, your life will become comfortable.

When that woman became blind, she asked her family members: Why did you put out the lamp? The family members replied: The lamp is on. Perhaps! You have lost your eyesight. Now the woman got very worried and when she learnt that it was the effect of Sayyiduna Abu Muslim Kholani’s Du’a, she felt greatly ashamed for her act and apologised to him and began weeping uncontrollably and humbly said: Please forgive me for the sake of the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make Du’a in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the recovery of my eyesight. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started feeling sympathy for her, he raised his hands in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and made Du’a for her eyesight. He did not even complete his Du’a when her eyesight was restored.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 90)

نگاہِ ولی میں وہ تاثِیر دیکھی

بدلتی ہزاروں کی تقدیر دیکھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The Du’as of those who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are very effective because the moment it comes out from their mouths, it is heard in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Their Du’as remove troubles and worries, it blesses a person with piety and with the passion to worship. Therefore, we should not only get the Du’as of the pious people, but we should also follow in their footsteps. In addition to this, we should protect ourselves from bad company and we should have the company of good people.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqahs to attain the blessings of Du’a, to shed tears in Du’a and to learn and teach the manners of Du’a. One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Du’as which are made in the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, are certainly answered because the Zikr (remembrance) of the pious people are done there and that place where the Zikr of the pious people of Allah is done, the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is continuously showered.

Sayyiduna Imam Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: عِنۡدَ ذِكۡرِالصَّالِحِيۡنَ تَنۡزِلُ الرَّحۡمَةُ ‘Mercy descends at the time of the Zikr of pious people.’

(Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Hadees 10750)

Just ponder, how can Du’as not be answered where mercy continuously falls? A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Blessings lies in Jama’at (congregation) and making Du’a in the congregation of Muslims has a greater chance of being answered. Islamic scholars have stated: If forty righteous Muslims gather somewhere, one of them must be a Wali [i.e. friend] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 184)

Therefore, make it your routine to regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Listen to the parable of how the fruits of making Du’a in a Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima appear, and rejoice.

A young man from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) has stated: I was arrogant because of my good physique and young age. I used to get my clothes tailored according to the latest fashions and trends. Loafing around all night and gambling away money were some of my wicked habits. Committing sins and doing evil practices had become a part of my character. My parents who often used to advise me had also become disappointed. My mother would weep and make Du’a for me [but I did not care].

An Islamic brother associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami would usually invite me to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’, but I continued to turn a deaf ear to him. Ultimately, we both reached the place of Ijtima’. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I had neither seen nor felt such spirituality in my entire life. When the highly emotive and tear-jerking Du’a began, the sobbing and weeping sounds of the attendees became so loud that even a hard-hearted person like me burst into tears. I repented of my past sins and joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

تمہیں لُطف آجائے گا زندگی کا

قریب آکے دیکھو ذرا مَدَنی ماحول

تَنَزُّل کے گہرے گڑھے میں تھے اُن کی

ترقّی کا باعِث بنا مَدَنی ماحول

یقینا مُقدّر کا وہ ہے سکندر

جِسے خیر سے مل گیا مَدَنی ماحول

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessings of making Du’a by attending the Du’as of pious people are great. Of course, we do not know as to which pious person’s

Du’a will be answered in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and for his sake all the problems of the people participating in the Du’a would be solved. Let’s listen to a parable in this regard:

‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Sayyiduna Yazeed Bin Haroon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I saw Sayyiduna Abu Ishaaq Muhammad Bin Yazeed Waasiti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in a dream and asked: How did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you? He replied: He forgave me. I asked: What was the cause of your forgiveness? He replied: Once Sayyiduna Abu ‘Amr Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to us on a Friday and made Du’a, so we said Aameen. It is for this reason that I was forgiven. (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 282; Kitab-ul-Manamaat ma’ Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 3, pp. 156, Raqm 337)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the manners of Du’a is that whenever we make Du’a for ourselves we should also include all the Muslims in our Du’a. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If a person’s Du’a is not fulfilled, then it can be fulfilled through any other person.

Sayyiduna Abush Shaykh Asbahani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated from Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: We have been told: On the Day of Judgement, when the person who used to make Du’a for the Muslim men and women, passes by their gatherings, someone will say: He is the one who used to make Du’a for you in the world. Therefore, they will intercede on his behalf and will take him to Paradise by humbly requesting Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated regarding making Du’a for Muslims:

وَ اسۡتَغۡفِرۡ لِذَ نۡۢبِکَ وَ لِلۡمُؤۡ مِنِیۡنَ وَ الۡمُؤۡ مِنٰتِ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And seek the forgiveness of sins of your close ones and for the common believing men and women.

(Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 19)

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard a man saying ‘ اَللّٰھُمَّ اغْفِرْلِيْ ’ (i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive me.) He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If you had included all the Muslims in your Du’a, Your Du’a would have been answered. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 2, pp. 286)

Sayyiduna ‘Ubadah Bin Saamit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying this:

مَنِ اسْتَغْفَرَ لِلْمُوْمِنِيْنَ وَالْمُوْمِنَاتِ كَتَبَ اللهُ لَهُ بِكُلِّ مُوْمِنٍ وَ مُوْمِنَةٍ حَسَنَةً

Any person who makes Istighfar (Du’a of forgiveness) for all Muslim men and women, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes a virtue for him in return for each and every Muslim man and woman. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 352, Hadees 17598)

Therefore, we should remember our fellow Muslims in our Du’as. We must make Du’a for our parents and also for our teachers. Remember, the religious father is like a spiritual father. Making Du’a for them brings about blessings for a person. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اِذَا تَرَكَ الْعَبْدُ الدُّعَاءَ لِلْوَالِدَيْنِ فَاِنَّهُ يَنْقَطِعُ عَنْهُ الرِّزْقُ ’ i.e. When a person stops making Du’a for his parents, then his sustenance is stopped. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 16, pp. 201, Hadees 45548)

Therefore, a person must make Du’a for his parents and teachers. Whilst making Du’a, one should be extremely humble and sincerely shed some tears. Express your helplessness in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by weeping and humbly beg for your needs.

Regarding this manner of Du’a, ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: More humbleness equals more blessings. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: One should try to sincerely weep, however, even a single tear can become an evidence that the Du’a has been answered. If a person is unable to weep, he should make a weeping face as the imitation of the pious is also a virtuous deed. Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes those who plead and make Du’a.

(Kitab-ud-Du’a lit-Tabarani, pp. 28, Hadees 20)

رونے والی آنکھیں مانگو، رونا سب کا کام نہیں

ذِکرِ محبت عام ہے لیکن، سوز محبت عام نہیں

Dear Islamic brothers! Focus on the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make a proper Du’a so that it can be answered. Furthermore, one should not be impatient regarding his Du’a to be answered. Some unwise people say things like: We have been making Du’a for so long; we request the pious ones to make Du’a as well; we have not left any Peer and Faqeer; we read so many Awraad; we have been to so-and-so shrines as well, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not fulfil our needs. However, sometimes, there are many pearls of Divine wisdom behind the delay [of the Du’a being answered] which we cannot understand. Therefore, we should not haste in Du’a. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has given some Madani pearls of advices for those who are impatient regarding their Du’as to be answered and become frustrated if a delay occurs in the answering of their Du’as,. Listen to the summary of his Madani pearls and protect yourself from the haste in Du’a being answered:

Those who want some personal gain from worldly officers or people of high posts are seen waiting for years hoping to be helped by them and wandering around their doorsteps morning and evening. As for the officers, they don’t even look at them nor do they answer them, rather they scold them and express their resentment. In fact, this is nothing but a waste of time and

money. Even after spending years wandering around these officers, they do not give up hope, and it seems as if it is still the first day.

And when it comes to making Du’a in the court of Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one rarely turns to Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and even if somebody does so, then he looks tired and worried and immediately wants everything; he spends a week reciting something and then starts complaining, ‘I recited this, but nothing has happened.’ Such unwise people close the door of fulfilment themselves. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

يُسۡتَجَابُ لِاَحَدِكُمۡ مَا لَمۡ يُعَجِّلۡ يَقُوۡلُ دَعَوۡتُ فَلَمۡ يَسۡتَجِبۡ لِي ۡ

Translation: Your Du’as are answered as long as you do not hurry. Do not say I made Du’a (but) it was not answered. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 200, vol. 4, Hadees 6340)

Some even dare to deny the effect of Du’as and invocations. In fact, they lose trust in the promises of bounties that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made. These people should be told ‘O shameless ones! O the undignified! Ponder calmly. If your friend asks you a thousand times to do something for him, but you don’t, then you’ll hesitate to ask him to do something for you and say to yourself ‘I didn’t listen to him, how can I ask him for something’ but if you dare to ask him and he doesn’t do it, then you won’t complain and will say to yourself ‘well, I didn’t do what he asked either.’ Now try to understand; how many of the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ do you obey? How shameful is it for you to disobey Him عَزَّوَجَلَّ and then want Him عَزَّوَجَلَّ to do what you wish?

O unwise person! Just look carefully at yourself from head to toe. There are millions of bounties in your body. When you sleep, His innocent servants (angels) protect you. Despite committing sins you are blessed with safety and good health from head to toe, protection from calamities, easy digestion of food, discharge of excrement without difficulty, easy circulation of blood in your body, physical strength, eyesight and countless other bounties are found in you without your asking (for them). Then how can you dare complain if some of your desires are not satisfied? You do not know what is

good for you? You do not know that perhaps you were going to suffer a major calamity which was warded off by this Du’a.

You do not know what kind of reward is being stored for you for this Du’a. His عَزَّوَجَلَّ promise is true. Du’as are answered in three ways in which every former one is better than the latter. If you lose faith, then surely you will be doomed and the accursed Iblees will take you to his side. (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 100)

مُسلماں ہوں اگرچہ بَد ہو ں ، سچّے دِل سے کرتا ہوں

تِرے ہر حکم کے آگے سرِ تسلیم خم مولٰی

خِرَد کرتی نہیں اب کام اِلٰہی! میں ہوا ناکام

تجھی سے اِلتجاء ہے مجھ پہ کر رحم و کرم مولٰی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, more than 100 departments have been established for serving the blessed Sunnah and propagating the call towards righteousness by Dawat-e-Islami, the global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah. One of these departments is ‘Majlis-e-Tawqeet’. ‘Tawqeet’ refers to that knowledge with which the five-times Salah, sunset and sunrise timings (timings of Sahari and Iftari), timings of Nisf-un-Nahaar and Misl-e-Awwal and Saani are determined. Moreover, it also helps determine the correct direction of the Qiblah.

In his letter about the importance of this science, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘Allamah Ibn Hajar Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned this (science) as being Fard Kifayah in ‘ Az-Zawajir ’. The rulings, whether related to the matter of correct Salah or Sawm, are obliged to the science of Tawqeet. Without this science, some aspects of observing Sawm and Salah or the correct direction of the Qiblah cannot be obtained. Though the direction of the Qiblah can be

learnt from the building of a Masjid, it is yet important to know this science. Therefore, keeping in mind the importance and effectiveness of this science, Dawat-e-Islami which is a non-political global movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah has established a department which not only develops the correct maps of the timings of observing Sawm and Salah of different locations through the Science of Tawqeet, but it also promotes this knowledge.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Majlis-e-Tawqeet has not only developed ‘Salah Timetables’ of numerous cities, according to the principles of Tawqeet, but it has also introduced a software, namely ‘Awqat-us-Salat’ in collaboration with the IT Majlis of Dawat-e-Islami.

This software is very useful in finding out the correct timings of Salah on computers and mobile phones. Through the help of its computer desktop application, the correct timings of Salah and the direction of the Qiblah for 2700,000 different locations around the world can be determined easily and 10,000 locations can be determined by its mobile application.

For any kind of problem or feedback on the system of timings, the members of this Majlis and responsible Islamic brothers can be contacted via phone numbers or the email address (prayer@dawateIslami.net) at the global Madani Markaz. One may also contact in person during office hours of the Tawqeet Maktab (office).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard about the parables in which Du’as were answered. In addition, we have also heard about the importance of Du’a, its virtues and the manners by which Du’as are answered. Making Du’a is the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; it is the Sunnah of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; it is obedience to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; making Du’a is a favourite practice of the saints; it is the essence of worship; Du’a is a superior act of worship; Du’a is a weapon of a true

believer; Du’a is a most excellent act before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; Du’a is beneficial in times of troubles; Du’a brings about salvation from the enemy and an increase in sustenance; Du’a is answered if Salat-’Alan-Nabi is recited before and after. It is very effective for Du’a to be answered if it is made by mentioning the favourite names of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

A good deed should be performed and then through the Waseelah (medium) of that good deed, Du’a should be made as it is a very important source by which a Du’a is answered. One should make Du’a with full attention and devotion, with conviction that his Du’a will be answered. To present the Waseelah of the saints in a Du’a also causes the Du’a to be answered. Blessings also lie in making Du’a together with pious people in a congregation. One should remember his parents, spiritual guide, teachers and all Muslims in his Du’a. Du’a should be made with humbleness by expressing helplessness. Even if a single tear drop comes out during the Du’a, it is a sign that the Du’a has been answered.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Firstly, two blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. When two Muslims shake hands while meeting and ask each other about their well-being, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends down a hundred mercies between them, of which ninety nine mercies are for the one who meets the other more warmly and asks about the well-being of his brother in a more beautiful manner. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 380, Raqm 7672)

2. When two friends meet, shake hands, and recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

3. When two Muslims meet, it is a Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam.

4. Say Salam when leaving as well. You may also shake hands here.

5. While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you.

6. The Du’a that two Muslims make while shaking hands will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be answered and both will be forgiven before their hands are separated. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 4, pp. 286, Hadees 12454)

7. Shaking hands with each other removes hatred.

8. You can shake hands every time you meet.

9. It is not Sunnah for both to just shake hands by using one hand each. The Sunnah is to use both hands.

10. Some people just touch their fingers; this is not the Sunnah either.

1. It is Makruh to kiss one’s own hand after shaking hands.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 115)

2. If one feels lust while shaking the hands of an Amrad (attractive young boy) then it is impermissible to shake hands with him. It is also a sin to look at that boy if one feels lust by seeing him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 2, pp. 98)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

