اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Greedy for Virtuous Deeds

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world.’

(Jami’-ul-Ahadees lis-Suyuti, pp. 75, vol. 3, Hadees 7377)

ذاتِ والا پہ بار بار دُرُود بار بار اور بے شُمار دُرُود

رُوئے اَنور پہ نُور بار سلام زُلفِ اَطہر پہ مُشکبار دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

On page 79, volume 2 of a 413-page book namely, ‘ Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat ’ published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a parable has been narrated:

Sayyiduna Ahmad Bin Muhammad Bin Ziyad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: I heard Sayyiduna Abu Bakr ‘Attar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying this: At the time of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi’s demise, some of my companions and I were present there. We saw him offering Salah in a sitting position due to weakness just a little time before the demise. Both of his feet were swollen. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Ruku and Sujood, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would turn one of his feet due to a lot of pain. When my companions saw this condition they said: O Abu Qaasim! What is this? Why are your feet swollen? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر, this is a blessing.’ Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Hareeri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: O Abu Qaasim! What is the harm if you lie down? He said: I still have time in which some good deeds can be performed, then no chance will be given. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then said ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر ’ and passed away.

It has also been narrated that when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was told: Huzoor! Have some mercy on your body. He replied: Now my Book of Deeds is being closed. At this time, who will be needier of good deeds than me?

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat’, vol. 2, pp. 79)

مِری زندگی بس تِری بندگی میں

ہی اے کاش! گُزرے سدا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable, the greed for performing good deeds of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی can be judged that at the time of the agonies of death it was not possible to perform Salah in a standing position due to weakness. The feet were swollen due to abundant

worship. The pain was terrible. Instead of all these reasons, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted to perform more good deeds.

In the beginning, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, used to do trade in mirrors. During this period of time, it was his routine that when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to his shop, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would drop the curtain of his shop and offer 400 Rak’aat Nafl Salah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه continued to practise this for a long period of time. After leaving the shop, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then went to Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and became an ascetic in one of the rooms of his home and started protecting and guarding his heart.

Similarly, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent a long period of 40 years. It was his routine for 30 years that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would stand and say ‘ اَللّٰه اَللّٰه ’ from after Salat-ul-‘Isha until the morning, performing Salat-ul-Fajr with the same Wudu. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself has said that he had not missed the first Takbeer for 20 years. (Sharh Shajarah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Attariyyah, pp. 73)

Dear Islamic brothers! How beautiful the way of living of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی was that they earned Halal sustenance throughout the day and spent their nights in Zikr and worship, whereas we are wasting our lives in useless activities. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to perform good deeds till their last breath, whereas there are people today who spend their entire lives in heedlessness and don’t even perform good deeds in their old age. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to perform Salah so regularly that they did not miss the first Takbeer for years, whereas we do not go to the Masjid for months. Some go to Masjid with great preparations only for Eid Salah once a year, but some are even deprived of this privilege.

Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were loyal to the Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, however, we are fashionable people and are crazy for the attractions of this world. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی not only performed good deeds themselves, but they also conveyed the call towards righteousness to others, but we not only commit sins ourselves, but also provide the opportunities of committing sins to others. Our pious predecessors

رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to travel in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by sacrificing their lives, wealth and family members for the propagation of Islam, but we are drowned in the love for wealth and use Haraam sources and therefore we are destroying our Hereafter. Alas! Today we do not worry at all for the progress and propagation of Islam, which we received after countless sacrifices of the blessed Companions and saints.

Remember! Very soon we have to die and enter a dark grave and we shall reap what we have sowed. Therefore, considering the life we have today sufficient we should wake up to this fact and associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to perform good deeds and abstain from sins. Travel with Madani Qafilahs to acquire Islamic knowledge. Act upon the Madani In’amaat and regularly attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarahs of Dawat-e-Islami. By virtue of its blessings, abundant opportunities of performing many good deeds will be found, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Greed can be defined as not being content with anything and always wanting more, this person is called greedy. For example, to desire abundant wealth; this passion or desire is called greed, while the person who becomes a victim of this passion, is ‘a greedy person’.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 86)

It is generally understood that greed is only related to ‘money and wealth’, but this is actually not the case, because greed is excessive desire for absolutely anything, whether money or anything else. Anyone who desires more wealth will be classed as ‘greedy for wealth’, and the one who desires more food will be classed as ‘greedy for food’. The one who desires more good deeds will be classed as ‘greedy for good deeds’, and the one who desires to increase his burden of sins will be classed as ‘greedy for sins’.

‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: Passion for greed is found in food, clothing, residence, goods, money, respect or fame, in short, in every blessing. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 111)

It will be very effective to study the 232-page book of Maktaba-tul-Madinah namely ‘ Hirs ’ [Greed] for further information about greed. Obtain this book and study it, you may read this book online or download it for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net).

Dear Islamic brothers! Greed is a characteristic that is part of the human nature. Whether it is an infant, a strong young man or a weak old man, a man or woman, a ruler or a subject, a rich man or a poor man, a scholar or an illiterate person, in short, everyone suffers from greed. There is another kind of greed where some people are greedy for good deeds to receive rewards in the Hereafter. Others are greedy for wealth, status, respect and fame. It is stated in Tafseer Khaazin: Greed is an essential part of the heart because it has been created in the very same way. (Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 437)

Remember! Some of the acts, which are related to greed, are rewardable and some are punishable, whereas some are permissible (Mubah), that is to say, Sawab (reward) is not granted for performing such deeds, nor is there any wrath or displeasure if they are not performed. However, if the same permissible act is performed with good intentions, a person deserves Sawab and if he performs it with bad intentions then he deserves the punishment of Hell.

Greed has basically three types:

1. ‘Hirs-e-Mahmood’ (Good greed): To desire to have abundant wealth so that it can be spent in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. ‘Hirs-e-Mazmoom’ (Bad greed): To desire to have abundant wealth so that a bad act can be performed such as drinking alcohol etc.

1. ‘Hirs-e-Mubah’ (Permissible greed): To desire to have abundant wealth without any intention, however, if this type of greed has a good intention, it will become a good greed and if it has bad intention then it will become a bad greed.

Dear Islamic brothers! We should use our greed for those acts that can bring us profits in this world and for the Hereafter. This good quality is found only in greed for doing good deeds, because this greed becomes a cause of a person’s forgiveness and a source of taking him to the high levels of Paradise. This has been persuaded in the Holy Quran:

وَ سَارِ عُوۡۤ ا اِلٰی مَغۡفِرَ ۃٍ مِّنۡ رَّبِّکُمۡ وَ جَنَّۃٍ

عَرۡ ضُہَا السَّمٰوٰتُ وَ الۡاَرۡضُ ۙ اُعِدَّ تۡ لِلۡمُتَّقِیۡنَ ﴿۱۳۳﴾ۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And rush towards forgiveness from your Lord, and towards a Paradise that can hold all the Heavens and the earth in its width - prepared for the pious. (Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, verse 133)

On page 53, volume 2 of Siraat-ul-Jinaan, it has been mentioned in the Tafseer (commentary) of this blessed verse: Hurry towards forgiveness from your Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ and towards Paradise by repenting of sins, performing actions which have been made obligatory by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, acting upon good deeds and by creating sincerity in all our deeds.

Mentioning the virtues of good deeds, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also persuaded us in this regard. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَحۡرِصۡ عَلٰي مَا يَنۡفَعُكَ وَاسۡتَعِنۡ بِاللّٰهِ وَلَا تَعۡجِزۡ ’ Desire that thing which benefits you, beg Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for help and do not be disappointed.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1432, Hadees 2664)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the blessed verse and blessed Hadees it has been learnt that we should perform those acts which benefit our Hereafter, for our forgiveness and attaining high levels of Paradise. Alas! Due to love for the world and heedlessness of the Hereafter, the majority of Muslims are far away from enthusiasm to worship and are suffering from the greed for sins. Today’s young man stands in the queue to buy an expensive ticket just to watch and listen to sinful musical programs the whole night, but unfortunately for the purpose of offering Salah he hesitates to go towards the Masjid for a few minutes. He finds time to watch films and dramas on the TV, but his Nafs and Satan become an obstacle for him in the way of watching the 100% Islamic channel ‘Madani Channel’ to acquire Islamic knowledge.

There are people who read newspapers containing many articles of hundreds of lines every day, but for months on end they have no time to recite verses of the Holy Quran. The one who wastes his time by regularly sitting in the company of bad friends is not ready to join the area visit to call towards righteousness even for one day just for a few minutes. If those who waste many hours on computers, mobile phones and night packages, are invited to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, they reply that they have very urgent work at home.

Remember! Heedlessness and sins will only lead to destruction and humiliation. Therefore, before meeting death and leaving our dear and near ones weeping for us, we must sincerely repent immediately and create the greed for doing good deeds, considering the rest of life sufficient.

وہ ہے عیش و عِشرَت کا کوئی محل بھی جہاں تاک میں ہر گھڑی ہو اَجَل بھی

بس اب اپنے اس جَہل سے تُو نکل بھی یہ جینے کا انداز اپنا بدل بھی

جگہ جی لگانے کی دنیا نہیں ہے یہ عِبرت کی جا ہے تماشا نہیں ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the greed for good deeds. Surely, the Shari’ah wants us to have greed for good things and to try to adopt them as well. For example, those who are greedy for wealth make wealthy people their ideal (role models), similarly to increase the passion for good deeds and to gather the courage to bear the difficulties which may arise in this path, we should make our pious saints our ideal. The blessed lives of these great people will become a light for us and we will also become greedy for good deeds. These blessed personalities used to think deeply about making their Hereafter better far more than a worldly person does to make his world better. It can be easily judged by their ways of living, that these holy people were very greedy for good deeds. Let’s listen to the states of the worship and spiritual exercises of these holy people.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: Who amongst you is fasting today? Then Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: I am. It was then asked: Who amongst you has attended a funeral today? So he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: I have. It was asked: Who amongst you has given food to Miskeen (poor) today? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: I have. It was asked: Who amongst you has visited a sick person today? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: I have. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: Anyone who possesses these good qualities, will enter Paradise. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 513, Hadees 1028)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ observed fast, attended a funeral, gave food to a Miskeen and visited a sick person in only one day, and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave him the good news of Paradise. سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We have learnt that to observe fasts, attend a funeral, give food to a Miskeen and to visit one who is sick are deeds that lead to Paradise.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was attacked with a dagger before Fajr Salah, despite being severely wounded, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ offered Salah till the last breath of his life. Sayyiduna Miswer Bin Makhramah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was wounded with a spear, Ibn ‘Abbas and I (رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا) went to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . A cloth was tied on him. We said: he will only get up quickly for Salah. We humbly said: O leader of the believers! Salah! Having heard this Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got up and said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The one who misses Salah has no part in Islam. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then offered Salah in the state of being wounded.

(Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 8, pp. 579, Hadees 12)

Dear Islamic brothers! You must have noticed the love of Sayyiduna Farooq-e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for Salah and his greed for good deeds. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ offered Salah even in the state of being severely wounded. Today, unfortunately the majority of Muslims are far from Salah. Amongst those who offer Salah there is a huge number who do not offer Salah regularly. If they offer Salah at home, they do not offer it on their travels; if they offer Salah when they feel joy, they do not offer when they feel sorrow; if they offer Salah when they feel sorrow, they become heedless when they feel joy. May I be sacrificed for the glory of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he offered Salah in the state of being severely wounded! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us regular in performing Salah, for his sake! Let me tell you some blessings of Salah.

§ Salah is an act that leads to Paradise.

§ Salah is the best deed for a believer.

§ Salah is Noor (Light).

§ The one who performs Salah, converses with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ without any representative.

§ Paradise becomes Wajib for the person who offers 2 Rak’aat Salah with extreme humility.

§ 2 Rak’aat Salah is better than the world and whatever it contains.

§ Salah is the favourite deed given by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ For every Sajdah in Salah one virtue is recorded, one sin is removed and one rank is elevated.

§ A person who performs Salah will be made to enter Paradise safely on the Day of Judgement.

§ Salah removes sins.

§ Salah washes away the dirt and filth of sins.

§ One Salah washes away the sins which were committed between this Salah and the previous Salah.

§ A Salah-offering person spends his night peacefully.

§ Salah destroys evils.

§ A Salah-offering person will enter Paradise.

§ Innocent angels intercede with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Salah-offering person’s behalf for forgiveness.

§ A Salah-offering person is protected by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ Salah makes Du’a for the protection of the Salah-offering person.

§ A Salah-offering person is a perfect believer.

§ A Salah-offering person will be given the full return.

§ Salah disgraces Satan.

دیدارِ حق دکھائے گی اے بھائیو نماز جنّت تمہیں دِلائے گی اے بھائیو نماز

دربارِ مصطفی میں تمہیں لے کے جائے گی خالق سے بخشوائے گی اے بھائیو نماز

جنّت میں نرم نرم بچھونوں کے تخت پر آرام سے سُلائے گی اے بھائیو نماز

فاقے سے مُفلسی سے جہنّم کی آگ سے سب سے تمہیں بچائے گی اے بھائیو نماز

بات اعظمیؔ کی مانو نہ چھوڑو کبھی نماز الله سے مِلائے گی اے بھائیو نماز

Sayyiduna Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has said that one day Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was present before the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O ‘Usman! You will be martyred while reciting Surah Al-Baqarah and your blood will fall on this verse ‘ فَسَیَکْفِیْکَہُمُ اللہُ ’ (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 62, Hadees 4611)

In the last days of his Khilafat when Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ suffered great difficulty, even then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would observe Nafl fasts and become occupied with the recitation of the Holy Quran. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was martyred when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was reciting the Holy Quran. The drops of blood of martyrdom that gushed from his blessed body fell on the very same verse of the Holy Quran regarding which the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم informed him about.

Muhaddiseen and historians have said when Egyptians entered the home of Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the intention to murder him, then even in such a critical condition, the Holy Quran was opened before him and he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was reciting the same Ruku’. A cursed person attacked his hand with a sword causing blood to gush out onto the same word. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would clean the Holy Quran and say: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have first written the Holy Quran with the same hand. All of these Egyptians met a terrible and horrible death. After some time, people saw the Holy Quran and also saw the effect of the blood on it. (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansoor, vol. 1, pp. 340)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have read the greed of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for good deeds. At the time of his martyrdom, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was reciting the Holy Quran. Recitation of the Holy Quran is a great privilege for a Muslim. The Holy Quran has many Surahs by the blessings of which a great treasure of reward can be attained in a short period of time. For example, Surah Yaseen, the recitation of which takes 8 to 10 minutes, but from a reward perspective, if it is recited once, the Sawab (reward) of completing the Quran 10 times will be obtained. The one who recites Surah Yaseen will receive the reward of 20 Hajj. The fortunate person who recites it for the

pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for the betterment of his Hereafter, there is good news of forgiveness for him.

Surah Al-Mulk only consists of 30 verses. It takes 4 to 5 minutes to recite, but its Sawab (reward) is excellent! سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Surah Al-Mulk saves one from the punishment of the grave. Surah Al-Mulk will continue to make intercession for its reciter until he is forgiven. Listen more and develop the yearning for reciting the Holy Quran.

Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The person who recites three times ‘ اَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ السَّمِیْعِ الْعَلِیْمِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْم ’ and then recites the last 3 verses of Surah Al-Hashr in the morning, then for him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ appoints 70,000 angels who make Du’a of mercy for him until the evening and if he dies that day, he will be a martyr and if he recites this in the evening, then there is the same virtue for him until the morning. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 423, Hadees 2931)

It has been narrated that Surah Al-Baqarah has a verse that is the chief of all the verses of the Holy Quran. If it is recited in the home, Satan leaves the home, and that verse is Aayat-ul-Kursi. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 647, Hadees 3080)

Surah An-Nasr is equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran. Surah Al-Kafiroon is also equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran. Surah Al-Ikhlaas is equal to one-third of the Holy Quran. Surah Az-Zilzaal is equal to half of the Holy Quran.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us greedy for good deeds and enable us to recite the Holy Quran abundantly for the sake of Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ!

عطا ہو شوق مولٰی مدرَسے میں آنے جانے کا

خدایا ذوق دے قرآن پڑھنے کا پڑھانے کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Kahmas Bin Hasan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to offer 1000 Nawafil daily. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Nawafil, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not be able to walk. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not be content on this, but by being humble he would say to his Nafs: O the centre of every evil! Now get up for the second worship. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became weak in his last days, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer 500 Rak’aat daily. Even upon this he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would say: Alas! I have decreased half of my worship! (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 138)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just notice the yearning of Sayyiduna Kahmas Bin Hasan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for worshipping and his greed for doing good deeds, that despite physical weakness, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would still offer 1000 Nawafil daily and in his last days he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer 500 Nawafil daily.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The practising Islamic brothers of the Madani In’amaat and fortunate lovers of the Beloved Rasool attain the great privilege of offering the Nawafil of Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht, Tahiyya-tul-Wudu, Tahiyya-tul-Masjid, Awwabeen, Salat-ut-Taubah etc. daily. Let’s listen to the virtues and blessings of some of these Nawafil, for our persuasion.

§ Those who offer Tahajjud will be granted the towering palaces of Paradise whose outside can be seen from the inside and the inside can be seen from the outside.

§ Those who offer Tahajjud will be forgiven without any accountability.

§ The one who after offering Fajr Salah with Jama’at (congregation) becomes busy doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until the sun rises to its height, then offers 2 Rak’aat (of Ishraq), he will get the Sawab (reward) of a complete Hajj and ‘Umrah. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 100, Hadees 586)

§ The one who offers Chasht Salah regularly, his sins are forgiven, even is they are equal to foam of the sea.

§ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who offers 6 Rak’aat after Maghrib in a way that he does not say anything ill between them, then these 6 Rak’aat will be equal to the worship of 12 years.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 45, Hadees 1167)

میں پڑھتا رہوں سُنّتیں وقت ہی پر

ہوں سارے نوافل ادا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! These pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have great greed for good deeds. Surely, greed is a passion when it is created, it makes a person careless of other things. If someone is greedy for performing good deeds and to make his Hereafter better, then without taking care of rest he tries to perform as much good deeds as he can, as we have just heard above. On the other hand, if someone is greedy for wealth and position, he will definitely hurry after them.

Associate with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for getting rid of the greed for earning wealth and for attaining the passion for the greed for good deeds and start acting upon the Madani In’amaat. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to submit the Madani In’amaat booklet on the 1 st of every month, after filling it in by doing Fikr-e-Madinah daily.

Furthermore, the Madani In’amaat is a great source of protecting oneself from sins and is very helpful in giving rise to the greed for doing good deeds. By virtue of its blessings, not only does one have the privilege to offer obligatory acts, but he also attains the privilege of performing Nawafil. Many Madani In’amaat are in regards to Nafl acts of worship. For example, Madani In’aam no. 3 is about Aayat-ul-Kursi, Surah Al-Ikhlas, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah A-Mulk, whereas Madani In’aam no. 6 is about making Salam to Muslims, in order to earn lots of virtues. Madani In’aam no. 19 is about offering Tahajjud Salah, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen.

In addition to these, there are many Madani In’amaat which attract us to Nafl acts of worship. Therefore, get into the routine of submitting the Madani In’amaat booklet on the 1 st of every month to the responsible Islamic brother

of your own area, after filling it by doing Fikr-e-Madinah daily. By virtue of its blessing, one will develop the mind-set of acting upon the Sunnah, hating sins and yearning to protect his Iman (faith), اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

گناہوں نے کہیں کا بھی نہ چھوڑا

کرم مجھ پر حبیبِ کِبریا ہو

گناہوں کی چُھٹے ہر ایک عادت

سُدھر جاؤں کرم یا مُصطَفٰے ہو

کروں بے لوث خدمت سُنّتوں کی

شہا گر لطف مجھ پر آپ کا ہو

دے جذبہ ’’مَدَنی انعامات‘‘ کا تُو

کرم یا سیدِ ہر دو سرا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a great source of earning virtues and abstaining from sins. Many people, who used to commit sins in abundance, have now not only started performing good deeds themselves, but they have also brought others to the righteous path by the blessing of this environment. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion.

The statement of an Islamic brother from Bara Board, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) is summarised as follows: I was a misfit and a despised person of society. People called me ‘film crazy’ for I watched films and dramas excessively every day. Reforms in me owe to the individual efforts of an Islamic brother. This led me to attend the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Shab-e-Bara`at held in Khajji ground (Gulbahar, Karachi) organized by Dawat-e-Islami, the global, non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah. When I listened to the heart rending speech about the ‘ First Night in the Grave ’ I felt

the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the core of my heart. I repented of all my previous sins and embraced the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

My entire family had been westernized. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ As a result of my individual efforts, five of my brothers also became devotees of Dawat-e-Islami and they all crowned their heads with the green turban and gradually the environment of our households reformed into a completely Madani environment. At the time of writing these lines I am serving the Sunnah in the capacity of a Nigran of a Halqah Mushawarat. I love to travel with the Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilahs and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I travel regularly with the 3-day Madani Qafilah every month.

Dear Islamic brothers! In the present era, Muslims around the globe have become greedy for worldly benefits. Everyone is trying to surpass the other in the matters of this worldly life. On seeing someone’s beautiful mansion, we have a desire to construct the same. If we see someone wearing beautiful clothing made of good quality, we have the desire to wear one. We desire to have a new luxury car on seeing someone else having it. If someone is successful in his business, we get motivated by greed.

In short, we have become so greedy for worldly wealth and benefits that we do not get tired in struggling to acquire them. If only we could become greedy for virtuous deeds on seeing someone performing them. If only we could have a desire to offer Salah five times daily in congregation on seeing people going to the Masjid. The blessed saints were so keen to perform good deeds that they did not miss any opportunity of doing a good deed. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in this regard:

Once A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went for sightseeing at a certain place when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited Jabalpur. At the time of Maghrib Salah, Musalla and mats were spread on the sand to offer Salah. Maulana Mufti ‘Abdul Baaqi Burhan-ul-Haq Jabalpoori رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the host and Khalifah of A’la Hadrat states that while I had just put my fingers into the ears to call out the Azan, suddenly I heard the Azan. I saw that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

was calling out the Azan. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself called out the Iqamat and also led the Maghrib Salah.

After offering Salah, when we kissed his blessed feet, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه held my hand in his hand and said: It is stated in a blessed Hadees that wherever the voice of Azan reaches, every particle of that place becomes a witness. This is the reason that I have called out the Azan so that the flowing river, mountains, trees, vegetation and sand of this place become my witnesses.

(Ikram Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 95)

اس کی ہستی میں تھا عمل جوہر سُنتِ مُصطَفٰے کا وہ پیکر

عالمِ دین، صاحبِ تقوٰی واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

جس نے دیکھا انہیں عقیدت سے قلب کی آنکھ سے مَحَبَّت سے

مرحبا مرحبا پُکار اُٹھا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt from this parable that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was extremely keen to earn more rewards. We have also learnt that whenever we get a chance, we too should make everything around us a witness to our Iman by calling out the Azan, without any hesitation. Do not miss the opportunity of earning great reward by calling out Azan. In case you don’t get an opportunity to call out the Azan and Iqamat, at least make it your routine to answer them. A man who answers the Azan and Iqamat earns a reward of two hundred thousand good deeds for every Kalimah (word) and a woman who answers the Azan and Iqamat earns a reward of one hundred thousand good deeds for every Kalimah.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: O women! When you hear Bilal calling out the Azan and Iqamat, repeat (the words in the same way) as he says, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write for you one hundred thousand good deeds

for every Kalimah, elevate your ranks one thousand times, and erase one thousand sins. Listening to this, the women humbly asked: This is for us. What (reward) is for men? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: It is twice for men.

(Tareekh Damishq, vol. 55, pp. 75)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made it so easy for us to earn reward, get our ranks raised and sins erased but alas, we remain negligent even after having so many opportunities. Therefore, become keen to carry out good deeds, and answer the Azan and Iqamat to earn great rewards. It is also a Madani In’aam to answer the Azan and Iqamat, as stated in Madani In’aam no. 4: ‘Today, did you respond to the Azan and Iqamah, stopping all activities, e.g. talking, walking, picking up and putting down things, talking on the phone, driving the car, etc.?’

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the opportunity to earn great rewards by answering the Azan and Iqamat.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

گو یہ بندہ نکمّا ہے بیکار اِس سے لے فضل سے ربِّ غفّار

کام وہ جس میں تیری رِضا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the present era of evils, it is too easy to commit sins anywhere and م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, carrying out good deeds is extremely difficult. Perhaps this is the reason that Muslims have become affected by the disease of sins and do not bother to do good deeds. Alas, we face even great hardships to commit sins but when we get the opportunity of carrying out a good deed, even the smallest one seems to be very difficult as we are overwhelmed by our Nafs and Satan.

Remember! The more difficulty is faced in carrying out a good deed, the more reward will be earned by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as narrated: ‘ اَفْضَلُ الْعِبَادَاتِ اَحْمَزُھَا ’, i.e. the best act of worship is one that requires more difficulty. (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 1, pp. 141, Hadees 459)

Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی did not give up doing good deeds, no matter what difficulties they had to face, therefore,

When the leader of the Ahl-e-Sunnat, A’la Hazrat Maulana Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Hajj the second time, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill just after reaching Makkah Mukarramah. At times he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such high fever that he could not even stand properly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had started suffering from fever from 13 th of Zil-Hajj. Sometimes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a high fever and mostly a low fever. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered from a fever almost the complete blessed month of Muharram-ul-Haraam. (Malfuzaat, pp. 200, 188, 201)

Meanwhile, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه waited anxiously to get better so that he could start his journey towards Madinah Shareef to gain blessings of the visit of Rauda-e-Rasool. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: بِفَضْلِہٖ تَعَالٰی (by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ), when I got better in the last days of Muharram, I had a bath in a Sultani Hammam (bathhouse) over there. When I came out, I saw the cloudy sky which started raining while I reached the blessed Haram. I remembered a Hadees that a person who performs Tawaf while it is raining, swims in the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Immediately I kissed the blessed Black Stone and performed complete Tawaf while it was still raining, then I had a fever again.

(A great ‘Aalim-e-Deen of Makkah Mu’azzamah) Maulana Sayyid Isma’eel رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: You did not worry about your body (health) in order to act on a Da’eef Hadees! I said: Hadees is Da’eef (weak) but بِحَمْدِ اللہ تَعَالٰی my expectation is strong. بِحَمْدِ اللہ تَعَالٰی I greatly enjoyed performing this Tawaf (because) people performing Tawaf were less in number (than they used to be) due to the rain.

(Malfuzaat, pp. 209)

شرابِ محبت کچھ ایسی پِلا دے

کبھی بھی نشہ ہو نہ کم یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder over the state of our pious predecessors that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was greedy for attaining the excellence of performing Tawaf while it rained, despite suffering from a fever the whole month. On the other hand, our condition is so bad that م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ we even leave Faraaid, let alone Nawafil, because of a slight headache, flu, or mild diseases. We will become more enthusiastic about carrying out acts of worship if we make a habit to perform some Nawafil daily, along with Faraaid, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It is also narrated about the blessed saints that they used to set a target of performing good deeds daily and then tried their best to achieve it. Even after achieving their target, they remained occupied with worship and spiritual exercises.

Sayyiduna ‘Aamir Bin ‘Abd-e-Qays رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the greatest worshipper of his time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had made it compulsory upon himself to offer one thousand Nawafil daily. Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained busy in offering Nawafil from Ishraq till ‘Asr (i.e. for most of the day). His shins and feet used to be badly swollen when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned home. Even after performing so much of worship, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so humble that he used to say to his Nafs: O Nafs who call towards evil acts! You have been created for worship. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will perform good deeds so much that you will not get relief even for an instant and you will remain far from comfort. I will keep you involved in performing (good) deeds all the time.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 97)

مِری زِندگی بس تِری بندگی میں

ہی اے کاش گُزرے سدا یا اِلٰہی

Some blessed saints used to worship greatly every day and night, considering it to be the last one of their life. Sayyidatuna Mu’aazah ‘Adawiyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا used to say every morning: (Probably) this is the day of my death. Then she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا would not eat anything till the evening and would say at night: This is the night of my death. Then she رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا used to offer Salah till the morning. (Jannat mayn Lay Jaanay A’maal, pp. 150)

In the present era, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is also a great personality who follows in the footsteps of the pious predecessors. Once he could not sleep because of the all-night Madani Mashwarah. After Fajr Salah, an Islamic brother humbly said: Please take some rest now. You have to wake up again at 10 o’clock. Therefore, you may offer Ishraq and Chasht Salah after waking up. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه replied: Life cannot be trusted! (I don’t know) whether I will wake up after sleeping or not, or maybe these would be the last Nafl of (my) life! After saying this, he offered Ishraq and Chasht Nafl and then took a rest.

(Ta’aruf Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, pp. 65)

.

لازمی ہے ہر صُورت چھوڑنا گناہوں کا

بھائی! موت سے پہلے کاش! تُو سُدھر جاتا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, and the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami give us this Madani mindset that life cannot be trusted. Considering every moment a blessing, make your afterlife better by performing good deeds. We don’t know when we breathe our last and all of a sudden and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, we don’t get time to repent of our sins and our afterlife gets destroyed. Therefore, we should also follow in the

footsteps of our pious saints and set a target to daily perform some good deeds, to make our afterlife better. This will also make us habitual of performing good deeds.

The easy method to accomplish this is to act upon the Madani In’amaat with good intentions and by filling out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily while doing Fikr-e-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani In’amaat is a great blessing that helps us to carry out good deeds in many ways from morning till night. For example, you can earn great reward by calling out Sada-e-Madinah (awakening Muslims in the morning for Fajr Salah), reciting or listening to three verses of the Holy Quran with its translation and Tafseer in a Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah, offering the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht, offering the five daily Salahs in congregation in first row of the Masjid, reciting Aayat-ul-Kursi at least once after the five daily Salahs and before sleeping, reciting Surah Al-Ikhlaas and Tasbih-e-Fatimah, reciting or listening to Surah Al-Mulk in the night, delivering or listening to a Madani Dars (Dars from the book Faizan-e-Sunnat, etc.), studying or teaching in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) after ‘Isha Salah, attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarah, going for an area visit to call people towards righteousness, and acting upon other Madani In’amaat.

Dear Islamic brothers! Satan will never wish that we succeed in abundantly performing good deeds during the day by acting upon the Madani In’amaat. He will try his best to stop you from these good deeds. He will try to deceive you by instilling evil thoughts in your heart like, you are very busy and you don’t have time to act upon these 72 Madani In’amaat. If you don’t give attention to such evil thoughts and ponder over the Madani In’amaat, you will perhaps be surprised that it is very easy to act upon them, which seemed to be very difficult. The reason being is that we don’t have to act upon 72 Madani In’amaat daily; rather, there are three categories of the Madani In’amaat which should be acted upon daily. The first and second category contains 17 Madani In’amaat each, and the third category contains only 16 Madani In’amaat. Besides these, there are 8 Madani In’amaat which are to be acted upon once a week, 6 Madani In’amaat which are to be acted upon once a month, and 8 Madani In’amaat which are to be acted upon once a year.

Dear Islamic brothers! You must have understood it well that the Madani In’amaat for which Satan creates difficulties for us to act upon are actually very easy to practise. Currently, it is very important and beneficial for a Muslim to act upon the Madani In’amaat. This can only be realised when the Madani In’amaat booklet is studied carefully. Beside persuading us to act upon the obligatory and Wajib acts, Sunan and Mustahab acts, the Madani pearls of good manners are also being presented along with the ways of abstaining from sins and performing good deeds easily. Therefore, if we also want to become greedy to do good deeds after ridding ourselves of the diseases of sins, then we must start acting upon the Madani In’amaat from today. We will see its great blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have defined greed, we have heard about its different types, about those who are greedy for doing good deeds and the parables of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

§ The act of not being content with anything and always wanting more is called greed.

§ Our saints were always greedy to do good deeds, even at the time of the agony of death they were anxious to perform good deeds.

§ We should have the greed that can bring about benefit in the Hereafter.

§ No matter what difficulties our pious predecessors experienced while performing good deeds, they did not miss any opportunity of performing them.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us greed to do good deeds, for the sake of His righteous bondmen!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. When leaving the home, recite this Du’a:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَـوَ کَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُـوَّ ۃَ اِلَّا بِاللّٰہِ

Translation: With the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is neither power nor strength without Him.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of reciting this Du’a’, the person who recited it will remain on the right path and will be safe from calamities besides being blessed with Divine help.

2. Du’a before entering the home:

اَللّٰھُمَّ ا ِ نِّیۤ اَسْأَ لُكَ خَیْرَ الْمَوْلَجِ وَ خَیْرَ الْمَخْرَ جِ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ لَجْنَا وَ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ خَرَجْنَا وَ عَلَی اللّٰہِ رَ بِّنَا تَوَکَّلْنَا

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I ask You for the goodness of coming and exiting. We entered (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and exited (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we put our trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Ibid, Hadees 5096)

After reciting this Du’a, make Salam to the household, and present Salam to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْه وَاٰله وَسَلَّم . Then recite Surah Al-Ikhlaas. There will be blessings in your sustenance and the house will be protected from disputes, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Make Salam to the Mahram and Mahrimaat (e.g. the mother, the father, the brother, the sister, children and the wife etc.)

2. If anyone enters the home without mentioning the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, e.g. without saying بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ, Satan also enters with him.

3. If one enters a house where no one is present (even one’s own home) he should say:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْنَا وَ عَلٰی عِبَادِ اللّٰہِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ

Translation: Salam be upon us and the righteous bondmen of Allah.

The angels will reply to this Salam. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 682) One can also say the following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ

Translation: O Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Salam be upon you.

The sacred and blessed soul of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is present in the homes of Muslims. (Sharh Ash-Shifa lil-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 118)

4. Before you enter someone’s home, say ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ! May I come in? ’

5. If permission for entry is not given, return happily without getting annoyed. Perhaps they may not have given permission due to some compulsion.

When someone knocks on your door, it is a Sunnah to ask who it is. The person who knocked should mention his name, for example, Muhammad

1. Ilyas. Instead of telling the name, saying such things as Madinah! ‘It’s me’, ‘open the door ’ etc. is not a Sunnah.

2. After you have mentioned your name, stand at a side so that you do not look inside the house as soon as the door opens.

3. It is prohibited to glance into someone’s home. Some houses are higher than the other adjoining ones. Therefore, those living in higher houses should take great care when looking out from the balcony or window of their house.

4. When you go to someone’s home, do not unnecessarily criticize their home arrangements, as this could be hurtful to them.

5. When leaving, make Du’a for the household, thank them, make Salam, and gift them with a Sunnah-Inspiring booklet, if possible.

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

