اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Virtues and Rulings of Qurbani

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me, his Salat reaches me; I make Istighfar for him, and besides this, 10 virtues are written for him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam is showering its blessings, goodness and spiritual enlightenment. In this blessed month, the beloved Khaleel (friend) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, with his beloved son Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has set a unique example of patience, contentment and gratitude for us.

On the eighth night of Zul-Hijjah, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام dreamt that someone said, ‘Indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has ordered you to sacrifice your son.’ On the ninth night of Zul-Hijjah, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had the same dream. After he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had the same dream once again on the tenth night of Zul-Hijjah, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a firm intention to act upon the dream and to sacrifice his son. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 346)

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had also related the whole story to his beloved son Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and asked, ‘Now you tell me what is your opinion about this?’ Upon listening to this blessed dream, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, who himself was very submissive to the will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, answered with great submission, which the Glorious Quran states in following words:

قَا لَ یٰۤاَ بَتِ افۡعَلۡ مَا تُؤۡمَـرُ ۫ سَتَجِدُنِیۡۤ اِنۡ شَآ ءَ اللّٰہُ مِنَ ا لصّٰبِرِ یۡنَ ﴿ ۱۰۲ ﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He said, ‘O my father! Do what you are commanded to do! Allah willing, you will soon find me patiently enduring!’

(Part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah 102)

It is stated in Tafseer-e-Khaazin that Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام further humbly said to his honourable father: Dear father! Tie me up tightly with ropes before you sacrifice me so that I may not move because I fear my reward may get reduced. Protect your clothes too from the splashes of my blood so that my mother does not become grieved upon looking at them. Sharpen the knife well so that it may slit my throat properly because death is

extremely painful. Make me lie on my front placing my forehead towards the ground so that you may not look at my face while sacrificing me. And when you go to my dear mother, please convey my Salam to her. And if you consider it appropriate, so please give my Qamees [i.e. a long loose and full-sleeved shirt] to her. This will help to console her in being patient. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘O my son! How helpful you have been for me in carrying out the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!’

Thereafter, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام tied his son, made him lie on his front with his forehead placed towards the ground; having sharpened his knife, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, looking away, drew the knife across the neck of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام but the knife did not cut, i.e. his throat was not slit. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 4, pp. 22)

After Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام lie on the ground to slaughter him, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام brought a ram from Paradise as Fidyah with the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and uttered loudly from a distance ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’. Listening to this voice, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام lifted his head towards the sky and realized that this test from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has turned into ease and a ram has been sent as Fidyah to be sacrificed in place of his son. Delighted, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ وَاللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’. Listening to this, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said, ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ وَلِلّٰهِ الۡحَمۡدُ ’. Since then, the Sunnah of reciting these blessed words by these three most revered and sacred personalities عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام will continue till the Day of Judgement. (Binayah Sharh Hidayah, vol. 3, pp. 130)

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned blessed words are called ‘Takbeer-e-Tashreeq’. Reciting it [i.e. Takbeer-e-Tashreeq] once loudly is Wajib, whereas reciting it thrice is preferable after all Fard Salahs offered with the first Jama’at of the Masjid from the Fajr Salah of 9 th to the ‘Asr Salah of 13 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam. It is Wajib to recite Takbeer-e-Tashreeq immediately after performing the Salam. The Takbeer-e-Tashreeq is as follows:

اَللهُ اَکْبَرُ ط اَللهُ اَکْبَرُ ط لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللهُ وَ اللهُ اَکْبَرُ ط اَللهُ اَکْبَرُ ط وَ لِلّٰهِ الْحَمْدُ ط

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 779 to 784; Tanveer-ul-Absaar, vol. 3, pp. 71)

For further details regarding ‘Takbeer-e-Tashreeq’, please study the pages 8 and 9 from the booklet ‘Method of Eid Salah (Hanafi)’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the whole episode of Qurbani, there are many Madani pearls. We have learnt through the aforementioned parable that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and ‘Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام were very submissive and obedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the beloved son of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ’ who was born after immense prayers, was the light of his blessed father’s eyes and peace of his heart. Upon the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, instead of being grieved, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام presented himself with spiritual bliss, considering himself fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wanted his sacrifice and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام immediately got ready to fulfil this command demonstrating his willingness.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘If a high status is predestined for a person in the knowledge of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but the person is unable to acquire that status by his deeds, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes that person suffer financial, physical or children difficulty. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ then blesses that person with patience over that difficulty and makes him reach that high status which was predestined for him in the Divine knowledge.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, pp. 123, Hadees 3090)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sincerity and piety are the pre-requisite elements for the blessed act of Qurbani because if any good deed is performed with the purpose of showing off to the people of the world and to be performed with some other purposes than it will not be acceptable at all as the Glorious

Quran mentions the incident of the sacrifice of two blessed sons of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام wished to marry Sayyiduna Haabeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with Aqleema. But Qaabeel showed his discontent over the decision and expressed his desire to marry her.

Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام tried to explain Qaabeel that she was his sister and he (Qaabeel) cannot marry her, but Qaabeel showed stubborn attitude over this issue. Finally, Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ordered them to offer their sacrifices to Allah عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ and told them that the one whose sacrifice will be accepted will deserve to get Aqleema.

In those days, the sign of the acceptance of sacrifice was that a fire from the sky would come down and engulf the sacrifice. Therefore, Qaabeel offered some wheat spikes and Haabeel offered a goat for sacrifice. The fire from the sky engulfed the sacrifice of Haabeel and left wheat spikes of Qaabeel. Since he was full of grudge and jealousy and he intended to murder Haabeel. He threatened Haabeel that he will kill him! Haabeel said to Qaabeel that acceptance of sacrifice is from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and He accepts the sacrifice of only pious and sincere people. If you had been pious, then your sacrifice must have been accepted.

Dear Islamic brothers! The sacrifice of Qaabeel was not for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ but his aim and mission was to get ‘Aqleema’ and when he failed to get her, he flew into rage and killed Sayyiduna Haabeel رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Through this incident we learnt that sincerity and piety are the pre-requisite elements for the acceptance of the blessed act of sacrifice in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . But it is our miserable state that in the very first place, Nafs and Satan do not let us perform good deeds and if we succeed to perform any good deed anyhow then Satan exerts his fullest energy and force to waste our act of worship or makes us to commit any such mistake in the worship which leaves our act of worship invalid and waste our this deed by making us to commit the evil of showing off.

Remember! We should perform sacrifice and all other virtuous deeds with sincerity and steadfastness for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ alone and, if we, while seeking the pleasure of public, buy an expensive animal for sacrifice in order to receive loads of appreciation and admiration from the public but remember people sometimes show different tendency and reaction and pass comments in this way: ‘ Look! How expensive animal it is! Such an expensive animal cannot be bought by fair means and it is of no use to sacrifice animal by the unlawful earnings. ’

If, in order to prevent the public criticism and taunting, someone buys a cheap animal, people still do not help commenting in this way: ‘ In the futile customs of the marriage of his children he wasted huge money but when it is the time of spending in the way of Allah, he has brought very lean, thin and weak animal, though Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted him with abundant wealth! ’ Such types of comments come from the people whom we prefer to the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! We should try to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ alone on this blessed occasion of Qurbani instead of seeking the pleasure of others and we should keep piety and sincerity in view because only that Qurbani is accepted in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which entails sincerity and piety otherwise the animal which we have sacrificed, its meat and other benefits merely reach us, nothing, out of it, reaches Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is the piety and sincerity which reach in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as it is stated in the Glorious Quran:

لَنۡ یَّنَالَ اللّٰہَ لُحُوۡ مُہَا وَ لَا دِ مَآ ؤُ ہَا وَ لٰکِنۡ یَّنَا لُہُ التَّقۡوٰی مِنۡکُمۡ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Never does their flesh nor their blood reach Allah, but your piety successfully reaches Him. (Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 37)

So, we should not perform any act with the purpose of showing off or for seeking fame at all rather we should inculcate the habit of performing good deed for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ alone.

عَطا کردے اِخلَاص کی مجھ کو نعمت نہ نزدیک آئے رِیا یا الٰہی

مِری زِندگی بس تِری بندگی میں ہی اے کاش گُزرے سَدا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The blessed month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam is showering its blessings and with the advent of this blessed month, Sunnat-e-Ibraheemi (Sunnah of Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام), memories come rushing into our mind. Every year millions of Muslims look committed to carry out the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by performing the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this blessed month. Every owner of Nisab Muslim should perform Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with the intention of seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by his lawful earnings in this month because it is a great privilege as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in Glorious Quran:

فَصَلِّ لِرَ بِّکَ وَ انۡحَرۡ ؕ﴿ ۲ ﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So offer the prayer for your Lord, and perform the sacrifice. (Part 30, Surah Al-Kawsar, Ayah 2)

Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the excellence of performing Qurbani:

1. The one who performs Qurbani of an animal gets the reward of one good deed for each hair of the sacrificed animal.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 162, Hadees 1498)

2. The one who wholeheartedly performs Qurbani of an animal for reward, his Qurbani will serve as a barrier between him and hellfire.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 84, Hadees 2736)

1. O Fatimah! Stay near your sacrificial animal because your sins will be forgiven as soon as the first drop of its blood falls down.

(Sunan-ul-Kubra lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 9, pp. 476, Hadees 19161)

2. On the day of Eid-ul-Adha, man performs no other good deed that is dearer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ than shedding blood (of the sacrificial animal). This sacrificed animal will come with its horns, hair and hooves and the sacrifice is accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before the blood of the sacrificed animal reaches the ground. Therefore, perform the Qurbani wholeheartedly.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 162, Hadees 1498)

‘Allamah Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘The Qurbani will be placed on the pan of the scale containing good deeds, due to which the weight of the pan of good deeds will be heavier.

(Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 1, pp. 654)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Mulla ‘Ali Qaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Then the sacrificed animal will serve as his ride through which the sacrifice-performing person will pass over the Siraat (bridge) easily and further, every limb of the sacrificed animal will become Fidyah [expiation] (for freedom from Hell) for every part of its owner’s body.’ (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 3, pp. 574, Taht Al-Hadees 1470; Mirat, vol. 2, pp. 375)

Dear Islamic brothers! We have listened to the excellence of Qurbani that those fortunate people who performs Qurbani, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants them the reward of one virtue for each hair of the sacrificed animal, blesses them with the salvation from hellfire, sins are forgiven as soon as the first drop of animal blood falls down, Qurbani will be placed on the pan of the scale containing good deeds, due to which the weight of the pan of good deeds will be heavier, the sacrificed animal will serve as his ride through which the sacrifice-performing person will pass over the Siraat (bridge) easily and further, every limb of the sacrificed animal will become Fidyah [expiation] (for freedom from Hell) for every part of its owner’s body.

Therefore, any Muslim who is Malik-e-Nisab (the person who possesses 52 ½ Tola silver or he has the same amount equivalent to either of the above item in value in business goods or non-business goods, which are not goods that are the basic necessities of life. The wealth and/or property should be ‘extra’ above one’s basic necessities (Haajat-e-Asliyyah), Shar’i Qurbani is Wajib for such person. So, those Muslims who are Malik-e-Nisab, sacrifice is mandatory upon them and they should not incur the wrath and displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by evading and making different excuses.

The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one, who can afford to perform the Qurbani but does not perform it, should not come near our Eid-Gah [i.e., an open area for Eid Salah]. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 529, Hadees 3123)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a matter of serious concern for those who do not perform their Wajib Qurbani despite being able to do so. Is it not a big loss that they are deprived of such a great reward? Furthermore, they are sinners and deserve Hell-fire. It is stated on page 315 of the 3 rd volume of Fatawa Amjadiyyah: If the Qurbani is Wajib for a person and he does not have money at that time, then he should perform the Qurbani even by borrowing money or selling any of his belongings.

Currently, being drifted away from Islamic teachings, Muslims fail to perform this important obligation properly as it deserves to be performed. It is the miserable state of Islamic teachings of our majority living in our society that different Malik-e-Nisab family members living in same house sacrifice merely a goat on behalf of entire family and how an animal should be for sacrifice? Or would any animal carrying any fault invalid their sacrifice? Public is ignorant of all these important facts. After having sacrificed animal, they remain in misconception that they have acted upon the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and they have fulfilled an obligatory act, even though, responsibility of performing an obligatory act still lies with them. It is for the reason, knowledge of laws and rulings of sacrifice are extremely important.

For the basic and important rulings about the matters one frequently faces have been the part of the booklet ‘ Ablaq Ghoray Suwar ’ [Piebald Horse Rider] authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Study of this booklet will prove to be very useful as it entails the virtues of sacrifice, 12 Madani pearls, method of sacrifice, detail of defective animals, method of distributing meat by estimation, precautions regarding slaughtering animal as well as important information about animal hides, etc. This booklet can be read online from website www.dawateislami.net or it can also be downloaded in PDF format and can be printed out as well.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Eid-ul-Adha comes and celebrated once in a year, no doubt, it is the best time to eliminate the differences and to spread the happiness. The way blessed Shari’ah has persuaded us to share our happiness and do good to our relatives, neighbours, needy and the poor on such events and occasions and to console them when they are sad and facing some troubles; similarly, blessed Shari’ah has made it desirable and recommended (i.e. act of reward) to keep a share for them in the meat of sacrifice and to do good with them on these blissful moments of Eid e Qurban.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 23 of his booklet ‘ Ablaq Ghoray Suwar ’ [Piebald Horse Rider]:

The sacrificer can eat the meat of the sacrificed animal and can also give and serve it to the rich as well as the poor. In fact, it is Mustahab for him to eat a little meat. It is better to divide the meat into three shares – one for the poor, one for his relatives and friends and one for his own family. If he keeps all the meat for himself, there is no sin.

A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: To divide the meat of the Qurbani into three shares is Mustahab, not essential. If the sacrificer wants, he can use the entire meat at his home or can give all the meat to his relatives and friends or he may distribute all of it to the poor.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 20, pp. 253)

But goodness lies in this thing that the happy moments of this blessed occasion to be shared with relatives, friends, neighbours and the poor people etc., and after separating the share of the meat of Qurbani, rest of meat should be kept for the poor people so that we keep ourselves away from the evil and epidemics such as greed, miserliness, cutting off relationship, arrogance, pride etc., whereas we inculcate the traits in ourselves such as showing kindness to relatives, brotherhood and treating others gracefully; moreover may we have been mentioned in the supplication of the poor and the destitute.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One of the (monthly) 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also ‘Madani Qafilah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessings of Madani Qafilahs travelling under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, Madani transformations have taken place in the lives of countless people. Usually these Madani Qafilahs stay in Masajid. Furthermore, by virtue of these Madani Qafilahs, people have started offering Salah in many Masajid. Madani Qafilah is the most important source to spread the call towards righteousness.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: When a bondsman stays in a Masjid for Zikr or Salah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets pleased with him in a way as people get pleased when their missing person returns home. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 438, Raqm 800)

Let me tell you a Madani parable of Madani Qafilah for your motivation:

It is a summary of an account received from an Islamic brother. He narrated: I was unemployed and was also suffering from chronic joint pain. I was frustrated by the worries of my limited resources and troublesome joint pain. I tried to get some medical advice but was getting nowhere.

Inspired by an Islamic brother’s invitation, I set out with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool in a Madani Qafilah to learn the Sunna h. By the blessings of the Sunna h-inspiring travel with the Madani Qafilah and the affectionate company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool my long-term joint pain completely subsided. The very next day after returning from the Madani Qafilah, I met an Islamic brother who found a job for me. All that happened b y the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At the time of relaying this incident of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, one year has passed and I still have my job and the pain has never bothered me again.

یا خُدا! نکلوں میں مدنی قافلوں کے ساتھ کاش!

سُنّتوں کی تَربِیَت کے واسطے پھر جلدتَر!

خُوب خِدمت سُنّتوں کی ہم سَدا کرتے رہیں

مدنی ماحول اے خُدا ہم سے نہ چُھوٹے عُمر بھر

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ how incredible blessings of Eid-ul-Adha are! The spirit and enthusiasm of performing the blessed Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is worth noticing. Those well-to-do and prosperous people who distribute their Qurbani meat amongst the poor, in fact, they help them by this noble deed; in the same way, they invite their other relatives on this blessed occasion and show hospitality by serving them with sumptuous food. On the blessed occasion of Eid-ul-Adha, plenty of meat is collected in our homes and people use deep freezer in order to intact it, despite this facility, people complain of spoilage of meat so here is an effective tip for keeping your meat and other edible items intact for a long time.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned in the book ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ [Blessings of Sunnah]:

If raw meat is put in the freezer in a large deep container or basket, the meat in the lower part of the container may remain unfrozen and there is a high risk of spoiling meat due to little cooling. Therefore, keep in mind the proper way of freezing a large quantity of meat. First put a layer of ice at the bottom of the container, then place meat on it and then put another layer of ice on it, then another layer of meat and put the container or basket into the freezer. In this way, the meat in all parts of the container will properly freeze and will not rot for many days, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 574)

Make sure that the freezer is working properly. In summer, the freezing capability of the freezer may be affected due to low voltage, increasing the risk of food rotting. In this situation, the food can be left in open air. If hung up in the open air without any support etc., it can remain fresh. When you put some cooked food or gravy in the freezer, make sure that the container is uncovered so that the food can freeze properly. It is better to keep the food in small containers and plastic bags. Food in large containers can spoil because the food may not freeze properly. Khichra [1] and lentils tend to spoil faster than other types of food. Similarly, cooked food made from tomatoes and other sour ingredients also tend to spoil faster.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed us with abundance of bounties and blessings and each blessing carries innumerable advantages and benefits. Meat is also an excellent blessing and it is such a healthy diet if we consume it moderately, we can avail its benefits and the major benefit it carries is acting upon the blessed Sunnah and obtaining the reward of it because it is

the blessed Sunnah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as meat is one of the favourite edible items of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The Greatest Rasool’s favourite food was meat. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say that meat improves hearing, and is the chief of all foods in the world and the Hereafter. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared, ‘If I had asked Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to provide me with meat every day; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ must have provided it.’

(Ithaf-us-Sadat-il-Muttaqeen, pp. 238, vol. 8)

In Eid-ul-Adha days, consumption of vegetables and pulses is almost declined and people prefer edible items prepared from meat, so, people deprive of the due benefit they are supposed to have due to heavy consumption of it and after having consumed excessive meat, people suffer stomach disease and resultantly they tend to go to clinics. Therefore, act moderately when there is meat all around you and to curtail the harmful effects of meat, must use vegetables. Now let’s listen to some advantages from medical point of view and disadvantages of excessive consumption of meat.

Doctors comment that meat strengthens 70 powers of body, it sharpens the vision, enhances the colour of body, prevents belly bulge, cultivates habits and good manners; neck meat is light, digestible and delicious. Meat from shoulder section is the lightest, most delicious, most digestible and free from diseases. Veal (Calf meat) especially from a healthy calf is very moderate, delicious and the favourite one. It generally carries warming characteristic and if it digests properly, it is regarded amongst the powerful diets. Normally meat with gravy is better. Mutton is the best meat and the shoulder sections are the areas which do not have thick fibres which help tenderize and dissolve the meat soon. Fibre of Back meat is less thick than the fibre of thigh meat; it carries the production of red blood cells. Meat improves height by providing the body energy and strength. Benefits of meat vary from animal to animal. Mutton generates clean blood which is beneficial for the hot-tempered people.

Now let’s listen to the disadvantages of heavy consumption of meat. Consuming meat more than 2 or 3 times in a week is harmful, excessive consumption of

beef causes damage to the gums and teeth, excessive consumption of meat causes the excess of uric acid in kidneys and kidneys cannot easily eliminate uric acid from the body. Excessive consumption of meat is also harmful to liver and it is more likely to lead the disease of cancer.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! No doubt the spiritual personality of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is no less than a great blessing. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ his heart is full of Shar’i and ethical guidance of Muslims, it is for the reason, he guides his disciples and followers from time to time through his Sunnah-inspiring and constructive speeches and Madani Muzakarahs full of knowledge and wisdom as well as persuades them to hold the principles of Shari’ah tightly for example when this blessed occasion and blissful moments of Eid-ul-Adha come, majority of Islamic brothers associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, (a global, non-political movement for propagating Quran and Sunnah), acting upon the advice of their spiritual guide and Madani Markaz, take out time from their busy schedule and collect animal hides. So, keeping carelessness in view occurring during collection of animal hides for Dawat-e-Islami, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat has blessed us with a Madani bouquet of 22 intentions and precautions. Let’s now listen to them with carefulness and attention.

1. I am making good intentions for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2. I will follow the Shari’ah and the Sunnah at all costs.

3. I will cooperate with Dawat-e-Islami by endeavouring to collect animal hides.

4. Even if someone ill-treats me I will not vent my anger

1. nor will I resort to misbehaviour so that the prestige of Dawat-e-Islami will not be affected.

2. No matter how busy I am collecting the animal hides of sacrificed animals, I will not miss even the first Rak’at of any Salah without any Shar’i reason, let alone the Jama’at.

3. I will keep with me clean clothes including a turban and a Tahband in a shopping bag etc., for Salahs.

(These things can also be kept at the stall, if necessary. This is strongly advised, because the blood gushing out at the time of slaughter is Najasat-e-Ghaleezah and is as impure as urine. Hence it is extremely difficult for the person collecting animal hides to protect his clothes from the blood.

It is stated on page 389 of the 1 st volume of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at: The ruling for Najasat-e-Ghaleezah is that if it comes into contact with the body or clothes more than one dirham (size of a Dirham), it will become Fard to purify the body or clothes for offering Salah. If someone offers Salah without cleaning it, Salah will be invalid, and if he offers Salah deliberately, he will also be a sinner. If he offers Salah trivializing the Shari’ah commandment, it will become Kufr. If the impure substance is equal to one dirham in quantity, it will become Wajib to remove it, and if someone offers Salah without removing it, it will be Makruh Tahreemi, which means it is Wajib to repeat such a Salah. If he offers Salah deliberately, he will be a sinner too. If the impure substance is less than a dirham in quantity, it is Sunnah to remove it. Although the Salah will be valid, it will be contrary to the Sunnah and repeating such a Salah is better.)

4. I will protect the carpets, mats and other things of the Masjid, house, Maktab and Madrasah etc., from the stains of blood. (One should take special care not to walk on the wet floor of the Wu d u area or door mats etc., with blood-stained feet. Likewise, one should take special care while performing Wudu lest the clothes etc., of the other Wudu-making person sitting next to him as well as his own become impure with impure blood and splashes of impure water.)

1. I will not enter any Masjid wearing blood-stained and smelly clothes. (It is forbidden to enter a Masjid with an unclean body or clothes or anything else even if no unpleasant smell is emanating from them. If an unpleasant smell is emanating from somebody’s wound, boil, chador, clothes, turban, body or hand, mouth etc., it is Haraam for that person to enter the Masjid.

It is stated on page 1217, first volume of the book Faizan-e-Sunnat, ‘It is Wajib to protect the Masjid from unpleasant smells. Therefore, it is Haraam to burn kerosene oil and to light a match in the Masjid. A Hadees even states that it is not permissible to take raw meat into the Masjid.’) (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 413, Hadees 748) (Although the smell of raw meat is very light.)

2. I will protect the pen, the receipt book, the pad, the glass, teacups etc., from blood. (It is stated on page 585 of the 4 th volume of Fatawa Razawiyyah: It is Haraam to make a pure thing impure without a Shar’i permission.)

3. I will not advise anyone to break his promise if he has already promised to donate the animal hide to any other lawful organization. (It is better that one keeps in touch throughout the year with good intentions and be the first to ‘book’ the animal hide in advance.)

4. If someone from a Sunni organization has not yet come to take their booked animal hide or

5. If, by mistake, I have collected any other’s animal hide’; with the intention of reaping reward, I will hand over it to him.

6. If possible, I will gift a booklet or a pamphlet of Maktaba-tul-Madinah to the animal hide-donating person.

7. I will also thank him and say ‘ جَزَاكَ اللّٰهُ ’ to him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: مَنۡ لَّمۡ يَشۡكُرِ النَّاسَ لَمۡ يَشۡكُرِ اللّٰهَ, i.e., the one who has not thanked people has not thanked Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ either .

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 1962)

1. Making individual efforts, I will try to persuade the animal hide-donating person to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and

2. to travel with Madani Qafilahs etc.

3. I will keep in touch with him from time to time endeavouring to inspire him to join the Madani environment, thus returning his favour of donating the animal hide.

4. If he has already associated himself with the Madani environment, I will persuade him to travel with a Madani Qafilah or

5. to act upon the Madani In’amaat or

6. to take part in any other additional Madani activity. (After the days of Qurbani, responsible Islamic brothers must visit animal-hide-donors in order to express thanks to them. Furthermore, they should gather all such donors area-wise or in any other suitable way in order to call them to righteousness briefly and distribute booklets etc., among them. The donation of Dawat-e-Islami will not be spent on the distribution of booklets, but rather this should be arranged in some other proper and permissible manner.)

7. I will obey the responsible Islamic brothers without any argument if they ask me to bring animal hides from near and far (or to stay at the stall or to do any other work).

(These are only a few intentions. One having the knowledge of intentions can make many other intentions.)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! 92 departments of Dawat-e-Islami are actively working for the propagation of calling towards righteousness. One of them, a very important department is Madani Channel, through which, the message of Dawat-e-Islami is reaching many homes. Prior to launching Madani Channel when there was this mind-set of removing the T.V from the houses of Muslims, it proved to be very difficult. Only one avenue remained. As an example, when the flow of

a flood is turned away from destruction towards fields or crops then they are irrigated, thus saving the people from destruction, in exactly the same way, using the very same tool ‘T.V’ that has flooded every home, Madani Channel was introduced in order to awaken the Muslims from this flood of indecency and negligence and help save them from ignorance and sins.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! With the tireless efforts and struggle of the Markazi Majlis-e- Shura, Madani Channel started spreading the message of Dawat-e-Islami from door to door, starting in September 2008 Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 1429 Hijri and producing marvellous results. To what extent, Madani Channel achieved its objective can be estimated though the following attributes:

§ Aim of Madani Channel: Propagation of the pure message of Islam free from false beliefs.

§ Madani Channel being a standard bearer of protection of the pure Islamic faith & beliefs not only spread the message of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ & love of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also continues its services in many other Islamic fields.

§ Madani Channel has succeeded in delivering the message to every corner of the globe in a most effective and convincing manner where access was a difficult task.

§ Madani Channel is the only channel where women are not displayed on the media. In this regard, Madani Channel is a 100% purely Islamic channel.

§ Madani Channel is the only channel which has no commercials.

§ Madani Channel is playing a vital role in helping cure the social diseases infecting the community with the invasion of vulgarity & obscenity prevalent on social media.

§ Rulings about beliefs, worship, and ethics, religious and social issues are broadcasted with great care and responsibility.

It is evident that the Muslims will remain safe from other sinful channels as long as they keep watching Madani Channel. By the grace of Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Channel has achieved success beyond our expectations. Daily, we are receiving thousands of messages of congratulations and encouragement, from around the world. Apart from congratulations, these messages have also revealed great positive changes taking place in the lives of many people as a result of watching our Madani Channel. Many have repented of sins, started offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnah. Some unbelievers are also reported to have embraced Islam by virtue of watching Madani Channel.

Dear Islamic brothers! You are also requested to keep watching Madani Channel. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will learn thousands of Sunan along with motivations to act upon them, you will have a mindset to refrain from movies, dramas and songs etc., as well as acquire a deep yearning to immerse yourself in the love of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

مدنی چینل کے سبب نیکی کی دعوت عام ہو

عام دُنیا بھر میں یا رَبّ دِین کا پیغام ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have listened to about the excellence and rulings of Qurbani. Sunnah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

§ Those fortunate people who perform Qurbani have the glad tidings of getting reward of one virtue for each hair of the sacrificed animal.

§ The one who wholeheartedly performs Qurbani of an animal for reward, his Qurbani will serve as a barrier between him and hellfire.

§ He who performs Qurbani has glad tiding of forgiveness from sins.

§ By distributing meat amongst the poor, needy, relatives and neighbours, people earn great reward. Undoubtedly, Qurbani makes Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ happy.

§ Qurbani causes Satan’s displeasure.

§ Qurbani prevents calamities.

§ The one who performs Qurbani is granted with the goodness of the world and Hereafter.

§ So, the people whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted power and ability to perform Qurbani should do this noble act with sincerity so that he becomes the deserving of the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Under the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, collective Qurbani would be taken place at hundreds of location across Pakistan اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Those who want to participate in Qurbani should contact Zimmahdar Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami of Madani Markaz of their cities. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege us to sacrifice our time, wealth and lives for the sake of Islam.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Firstly, two blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. When two Muslims shake hands while meeting and ask each other about their well-being, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends down a hundred mercies between them, of which ninety nine mercies are for the one who meets the other more warmly and asks about the well-being of his brother in a more beautiful manner. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 380, Raqm 7672)

2. When two friends meet, shake hands, and recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

3. When two Muslims meet, it is Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam.

4. Say Salam when leaving as well. You may also shake hands.

5. While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you.

6. The Du’a that two Muslims make while shaking hands will اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be answered and both will be forgiven before their hands are separated. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 4, pp. 286, Hadees 12454)

7. Shaking hands with each other removes enmity.

8. You can shake hands every time you meet.

9. It is not Sunnah for both to just shake hands by using one hand each. The Sunnah is to use both hands for a handshake.

10. Some people just touch their fingers; this is not the Sunnah either.

1. It is Makruh to kiss one’s own hand after shaking hands.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 115)

2. If one feels lust while shaking hands with an Amrad (attractive young boy) then it is impermissible to shake hands with him. Even just looking at that boy is a sin if one feels lust by seeing him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 2, pp. 98)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

