اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Warnings against Missing Jama’at

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَـوَیْتُ سُنَّتَ الاعْتِکَاف

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, مَنْ صَلَّى عَلَيَّ صَلَاةً لَمْ تَزَل ِ الْمَلَائِكَةُ تُصَلِّي عَلَيْهِ مَا صَلَّى عَلَيَّ فَلْيُقِلَّ عَبْدٌ مِنْ ذَلِكَ اَوْ لِيُكْثِرْ ‘The one who sends

Salat upon me, the angels pray for his forgiveness until he continues sending; now it is up to that person, whether he recites more or less.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 5, pp. 324, Hadees 15680)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is a great favour of Allah Pak for us that He has made Salah obligatory for us and commanded Muslim men to offer Salah with Jama’at at the fixed timings and has promised them great blessings and gifts in the world and the Hereafter for offering Salah with Jama’at. On the contrary, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given countless warnings to those who miss congregational Salah (Salah with Jama’at). In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to the virtues and blessings of offering Salah with Jama’at as well as warnings of punishments for missing Jama’at. Let’s first of all listen to a parable.

Excellence of offering Salah with Jama’at

It is stated on page 273 of ‘ Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat ’, a book consisting of 2 volumes published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, containing beautiful admonitory parables: Sayyiduna ‘Ubaydullah Bin ‘Umar Qawaareeri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I have always offered ‘Isha Salah with Jama’at, but unfortunately once I missed the Jama’at of ‘Isha Salah. It happened because a guest came to me and I remained busy offering him hospitality. Having offered hospitality when I reached the Masjid, the Jama’at had been ended. I started thinking as to what deed I should do to compensate this loss. Suddenly, I recalled the blessed saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘A Salah with Jama’at is 21 times superior to the Salah offered alone.’ Similarly, a Hadees stating 25 times superior and 27 times superior has also been narrated. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 243, Hadees 645)

I thought if I offered Salah 27 times, perhaps it would make up for the deficit that occurred due to missing Jama’at. I offered Isha Salah 27 times, and then I fell asleep. I saw myself with some horse riders; we all were going somewhere. In the meantime, one of them told me: You do not cause your horse to take pains, undoubtedly, you cannot join us.’ I asked: ‘Why can’t I join you?’ He replied, ‘Because we have offered Isha Salah with Jama’at.’

(Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 2, pp. 94)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Obligation of Salah

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that if someone offers Salah 27 times after missing it with Jama’at, even then he cannot attain the reward equal to offering Salah with Jama’at. Surely, offering Salah with Jama’at has its own blessings which cannot be obtained without Jama’at, therefore, we should take great care of the punctuality of time for offering Salah with Jama’at and prefer Salah to our general work, family and other activities because no act can be more important than Salah. In Ayah 9 of Surah Al-Munafiqoon, part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا لَا تُلْهِكُمْ اَمْوَالُكُمْ وَ لَاۤ اَوْلَادُكُمْ عَنْ ذِكْرِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ مَنْ یَّفْعَلْ ذٰلِكَ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْخٰسِرُوْنَ(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! May not your wealth or your children cause you to neglect the remembrance of Allah; and whoever does this – so it is they who are in a loss.

(Part 28, Surah Al-Munafiqoon, Ayah 9)

A group of blessed commentators رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have stated: In this blessed Ayah, ‘ ذِكۡرِ اللّٰه ’ refers to the five Salahs, therefore, whoever becomes negligent in offering Salahs at their fixed timings due to his business transaction or profession or children, will be amongst those who suffer a loss. (Kitab-ul-Kaba`ir, pp. 20)

At another place, in Ayah 42 and 43 of Surah Al-Muddassir, part 29, it is stated about those who do not offer Salah:

مَا سَلَكَكُمْ فِیْ سَقَرَ(۴۲)قَالُوْا لَمْ نَكُ مِنَ الْمُصَلِّیْنَۙ(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘What took you into the Hell?’ They said, ‘We never used to offer the prayer.’ (Part 29, Surah Al-Muddassir, Ayah 42-43)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The first deed for which a bondman will be called to account on the Day of Judgment is his Salah. If his Salah is correct, he will attain salvation and success, but if there is a defect in it, he will be disgraced and destroyed.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 1, pp. 421, Hadees 413)

Dear Islamic brothers! The method of offering Salah, virtues of offering Salah and warnings for missing Salah have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees from which the significance of Salah is judged properly. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made five Salah obligatory for bondmen; the one who offers them and does not waste any of them considering their right to be ordinary, so there is a promise for him from the mercy of Allah Pak that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him enter Paradise and the one who does not offer them so for him there is no promise from the mercy of Allah Pak and it is up to Him whether He عَزَّوَجَلَّ torments him or makes him enter Paradise. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 89, Hadees 1420)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Offer Salah with Jama’at

Dear Islamic brothers! Wherever in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees, we have been commanded to offer Salah, it means that we have to offer Salah with all obligatory and Wajib acts. It is also one of the Wajib acts of Salah that it should be offered with Jama’at. In Ayah 43 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 1, it is stated:

وَ اَقِیْمُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتُوا الزَّكٰوةَ وَ ارْكَعُوْا مَعَ الرّٰكِعِیْنَ(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And keep the (obligatory) prayer established, and pay the charity, and bow your heads with those who bow (in prayer).

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 43)

It is mentioned in Tafseer-e-Khaazin that the above-mentioned blessed Ayah has motivated people to offer Salah with Jama’at, in other words, offer Salah with Jama’at with those who offer Salah. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 49)

At another place, in Ayah 42, 43 of Surah Al-Qalam, part 29, Allah Pak has stated:

یَوْمَ یُكْشَفُ عَنْ سَاقٍ وَّ یُدْعَوْنَ اِلَى السُّجُوْدِ فَلَا یَسْتَطِیْعُوْنَۙ(۴۲) خَاشِعَةً اَبْصَارُهُمْ تَرْهَقُهُمْ ذِلَّةٌؕ-وَ قَدْ كَانُوْا یُدْعَوْنَ اِلَى السُّجُوْدِ وَ هُمْ سٰلِمُوْنَ(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: On the day when the shin will be exposed and they will be called to prostrate themselves, they will be unable. With lowered eyes, disgrace overcoming them; and indeed they used to be called to prostrate themselves whilst they were healthy.

(Part 29, Surah Al-Qalam, Ayah 42-43)

Commenting on the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Taymi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: That will be the Judgement Day; on that day, they will be covered by the disgrace of regret because when they were called towards Sajdahs in the world, they despite being healthy, did not come to offer Salah. Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this blessed Ayah has been revealed for those who miss Salah with Jama’at and what will be more terrible warning than this, for those who miss Jama’at without any reason.’ (Tafseer Qurtubi, vol. 9, pp. 187)

Offering Salah with Jama’at

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! In this blessed Ayah, the act of not offering Salah with Jama’at without any reason is such a deed due to which one may face torment and disgrace on the Judgement Day. Therefore, the Jama’at of Masjid should not be missed without any Shar’i reason. Let’s listen to a few blessed Ahadees in order to know its importance.

If he had known the loss of missing Jama’at so…

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘If the one who misses Salah with Jama’at knew what is for him [who has missed the Salah with Jama’at], he would come dragging.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 224, Hadees 7886)

Dear Islamic brothers! By offering Salah with Jama’at not only Muslims increase love for each other, it also increases the reward for Salah manifold. In blessed Ahadees, at many places, abundant rewards and good news of many gifts have been mentioned for those who offer Salah with Jama’at. Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 Whoever performs Wudu properly, walks for the obligatory Salah and offers obligatory Salah led by the Imam, his sins will be forgiven.

(Sahih Ibn Khuzaymah, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 1489)

2 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves those who offer Salah with Jama’at.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 309, Hadees 5112)

3 Salah with Jama’at is 27 times better than the Salah offered alone.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 232, Hadees 645)

4 When a bondman offers Salah with Jama’at, then begs Allah Pak for his need, Allah Pak feels shy of this thing that [His] bondman returns before his need is fulfilled. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 299, Hadees 10591)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the great excellence in offering Salah with Jama’at has! The one who offers Salah with Jama’at is so fortunate that he gets reward 27 times more by virtue of attending Jama’at. Such a person becomes beloved of Allah Almighty. His Du’as are answered and he attains virtue for every step he takes after leaving home with the intention of Salah.

He will continue to get reward for Salah until he keeps sitting waiting for Jama’at. In short, the one who offers Salah with Jama’at gets abundant benefits.

Dear Islamic brothers! Despite so many blessings and virtues of Salah with Jama’at, feeling lazy and not offering Salah with Jama’at are very astonishing. But alas! People do not care about Jama’at, but rather they do not feel sad if they miss Salah. On the other hand, it was the state of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی that they would feel so much grief even over missing a Takbeer-e-Aula as if they had suffered a very big loss. These personages would consider the first Takbeer to be more important than this world and whatever is in it and this is indeed the reality.

Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is narrated that in the sight of Salaf Saliheen [pious predecessors in the past] رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی Salah was so important that if any of them missed their first Takbeer, they would grieve over it for 3 days and if someone missed their Jama’at, they would grieve over it for 7 days. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 268) We should also develop the importance and love for Salah with Jama’at and form the habit of our children from the beginning to offer Salah with Jama’at.

Advised son to stay in Masjid

Advising his son Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to him: O son! Masjid should be your home. Undoubtedly, I have heard the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘Masajid are the homes of the pious and the one whose home is Masjid, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes Guarantor of his forgiveness, mercy and crossing the Siraat Bridge safely that leads to Paradise.

(Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 8, pp. 172, Hadees 1)

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the best ways to give upbringing to your children is to associate yourselves and your entire family members with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami because when we associate ourselves with this Madani environment, present call towards righteousness after joining properly Masjid-filling movement, make our Madani mind-set to live our lives as per Madani In’amaat, travel with Madani Qafilahs and make others travel with Madani Qafilahs, attend Madani Muzakarah regularly from

beginning to end every week, watch only Madani Channel [an electronic preacher, a 100 per cent Islamic channel] at home instead of watching sinful channels, so it is hoped from the mercy of Allah Pak that first of all it will serve as a source of our own reformation and then by virtue of its blessing it will become easy for us to do Madani Tarbiyyat (edification) of our children, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dar-ul-Madinah, Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madrasa-tul-Madinah have been established for the Tarbiyyat [upbringing] of children as per Sunnah in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Madani children [boys and girls] are given correct upbringing as per Sunnah in these institutes. In order to get further Madani pearls about the upbringing of children buy the 188-page book namely ‘Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it. This book contains Madani pearls enriched with the teachings of the Holy Quran, blessed Ahadees and sayings of pious predecessors, all matters of a child from his birth to his marriage and different manners of life. Read this book yourself, and also persuade others to study it and become deserving of continuous reward.

Booklets consisting of different topics written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه are published from time to time, for the Tarbiyyat of children in particular and for elders in general. For example, five booklets have been published so far. What are the names of those five booklets? Write them down if possible and buy them today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Useful information about Tarbiyyat (upbringing) can be obtained by studying these booklets as well, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . These five booklets are as follows: (1) Luminous Face (2) Pharaoh’s Dream (3) Unique son (4) Lying Thief (5) Madani Infant.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Ijtima’—One of the 12 Madani activities

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of travelling with Madani Qafilahs countless people have repented of their sinful life after feeling ashamed of their previous life style. They have started living Sunnah-inspiring life and taking part actively in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 weekly Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ from beginning to end. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, In the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ held under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at are recited, a Sunnah-inspiring speech is delivered, tear-jerking Du’a is made, Madani pearls of Zikr and Salat and Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge are imparted.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ is the best source of gaining Islamic knowledge. It is stated in a blessed Hadees about the excellence of gaining Islamic knowledge: The person who walks on any path for seeking knowledge, Allah Pak guides him to the path of Paradise and angels spread their arms for the pleasure of a student. (Sunan-e-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 312, Hadees 2691)

Therefore, attend it with punctuality of time and learn abundant Sunnahs. Travel with the Madani Qafilahs of learning Sunnah and accumulate virtue for your Hereafter. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will get its abundant blessings.

Lover of Table Tennis

An Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi, Pakistan) was very fond of playing table tennis due to having no religious mind-set. As the evening fell, he would get busy playing table tennis and sometimes he would continue to play it late at night. In short, he was spending his days and nights in such types of useless hobbies. An Islamic brother associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami would come to him and make individual efforts on all the players; he would invite them to offer Salah and attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, but he did not pay attention. This Islamic brother kept on presenting him the call towards righteousness. Finally, his heart became soft and he started attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ with that Islamic brother. By virtue of the blessing of the weekly Ijtima’, the darkness of his black heart gradually

started getting removed. He repented of all of his sins and associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, after giving up useless and absurd activities.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Who is wise?

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely wise is he who not only acts upon the commandments of Islam himself, but he also makes his children the ones who act upon Sunnah and tells them the importance of Salah with Jama’at because Salah is the most important worship amongst all the acts of worship and it is the source of salvation and the key to Paradise. Therefore Salah should be greatly protected and be offered on time with Jama’at. It is usually observed that people offer Salah at home and avoid going to the Masjid. In this way, they get deprived of the great reward simply due to being lazy.

Remember! Jama’at is Wajib for every free, adult, capable and sane Muslim and whoever misses it even once without any reason is a sinner and deserves punishment. If someone misses it many times, he is a transgressor [his testimony is not acceptable] and he will be punished severely. If his neighbours remain silent, they will also be sinners. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 582)

Understand the significance of Salah with Jama’at in this way that if we get to know that the goods we have, will be sold here in our city for one rupee, but if it is sold overseas, it will be sold for 27 rupees, then perhaps everyone will prefer to go overseas to sell their goods because no one will like to miss twenty-sevenfold profit, however, it is amazing that walking a few steps towards the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at brings twenty-sevenfold reward, but people miss Jama’at without any Shar’i reason taking no care of it. On the contrary, the routine of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم was that they would walk a mile to go to the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at.

Sayyiduna Abu Zubayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he heard from Sayyiduna Jabir (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ): Our homes were far away from the Masjid; we, therefore, decided to sell our homes so that we could get near the Masjid. The Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade us to do so and said: ‘You gain reward for every step.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 335, Hadees 6)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had great passion for offering Salah with Jama’at. Surely, walking one mile for every Salah is not an easy task, and their passion for obedience is such worth noticing that they did not buy homes near Masjid-un -Nabawi so that they could get more reward by virtue of going to the Masjid from a distance. On the other hand, Masajid are near our homes. If the Masjid is at a little distance and we feel lazy going there on foot, we can go there by car or on bike. Necessary facilities are also available in Masajid, but unfortunately we do not yet offer Salah with Jama’at. The people who do not offer Salah with Jama’at out of laziness should listen to the following blessed Hadees attentively and ponder over it again and again and make their mind to offer Salah regularly with Jama’at by getting rid of laziness and heedlessness through Madani pearls of admonition.

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم found some people absent in some Salahs he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘I want to order someone to lead the Salah, then I go towards the people who miss Salah [with Jama’at] and burn their homes on them.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 327, Hadees 251, 252)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who would love his Ummah very much and would weep all the night long for the forgiveness and salvation of his Ummah said in annoyance: ‘The people who do not offer Salah with Jama’at, I wish to set their homes on fire’. Remember! From this parable no one should think that مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم did not use to offer Salah with Jama’at.

Commenting on this, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘Here ‘ the people who miss Salah with Jama’at ’ refers to hypocrites because no blessed companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would miss his Jama’at and attendance at the Masjid without any reason. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 168) Blessed companions

رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would go to the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at despite being disabled.

Dear Islamic brothers! Our body parts are functioning properly, eyes can see, we do not have any trouble while coming and going [towards Masjid], even then the unwise deceived by Nafs and Satan do not offer Salah with Jama’at due to their heedlessness and laziness and if those who offer Salah with Jama’at go to a feast, so due to the fear of food being finished and overcome by the greed for eating delicious food, they become so much indulged in eating food that they forget to offer Salah with Jama’at.

Therefore, the host should also ensure that he must arrange the feast in a way that no Salah time falls during its timings. If the time of Salah approaches due to being late, so despite being too much busy, all guests and host should immediately head towards the Masjid. Attending Jama’at-e-Aula in the Masjid is Wajib until and unless someone has a Shar’i compulsion. If someone holds Jama’at at home or any other place after missing the Jama’at of Masjid without any Shar’i reason, he will commit the sin of missing Wajib.

Fear of dying in the state of Kufr (unbelief)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! It is not allowed at all to miss the first Jama’at of Masjid regarding obligatory Salahs due to Iftar parties, wedding and Valimah feasts, Niyaz (meal served to convey Sawab), Ijtima’aat of Isal-e-Sawab and Na’at Khuwanis etc.

Even if the people who arrange the Jama’at of Taraweeh in the home or hall or compound of a bungalow and there is a Masjid nearby, it is Wajib for them to offer obligatory Rak’at with Jama’at-e-Aula [first Jama’at] in the Masjid first. The people who do not offer Fard Salah with Jama’at-e-Aula [first Jama’at] in the Masjid without any Shar’i reason despite having the capability, should fear.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The one who likes to meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the state of being a Muslim tomorrow should regularly offer these five Salahs [with Jama’at] at the place where Azan is called because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Sunan-e-Huda (Sunnat-e-Muakkadah) as

Mashroo’ for your Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and these Salahs [with Jama’at] are also from Sunan-e-Huda.

If you offer Salah at your homes as the one who misses Jama’at offers at home so you will give up the Sunnah of your Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and if you give up the Sunnah of your Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, you will go astray.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 328, Hadees 654)

The above mentioned blessed Hadees indicates that the one who offers Salah with Jama’at-e-Aula [first Jama’at] regularly will have a good end whereas the one who misses Jama’at-e-Aula of the Masjid without any Shar’i reason is مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in danger of dying in the state of Kufr (disbelief).

The people who do not offer Salah with complete Jama’at out of laziness without any reason should pay attention as A’la Hadrat Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Ash-Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If someone keeps waiting for Iqamat to enter the Masjid after hearing the Azan, he will be a sinner. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 7, pp. 102 – Al-Bahr-ur-Raaiq, vol. 1, pp. 604)

On the same page of Fatawa Razawiyyah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The person who waits for Iqamat at his home after hearing the Azan, his testimony will not be accepted.’ (Al-Bahr-ur-Raaiq, vol. 1, pp. 451)

Dear Islamic brothers! Majority of our people are such who have their shops in the busiest markets and who spend time in their offices etc., in the name of being busy. Azan starts and ends, Jama’ats end, but they do not even realize it. Moreover, those who offer Salah, they offer without Jama’at. Sometimes, while working or gossiping they even miss Salah let alone the Jama’at, but unfortunately, they do not feel sorry for it. In the blessed sight of pious bondmen of Allah Pak the importance of Jama’at used to be more than even getting any greatest kingdom.

Salah is better than kingdom

Sayyiduna Maymoon Bin Mihraan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to the Masjid, he was informed, ‘The Jama’at is over and people have gone.’ Having heard this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spontaneously recited: ‘ اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیْهِ رٰجِعُوْنَؕ ’ and then said: ‘In my

sight the excellence of this Salah [with Jama’at] is more than the rule of Iraq.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 268)

Donated orchard for the poor

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has stated that Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once went towards one of his orchards. People had offered Salat-ul-‘Asr when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned. Having seen this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ recited ‘ اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیْهِ رٰجِعُوْنَؕ ’ and said, ‘I have missed my ‘ Asr Jama’at’, therefore, I make you witness that my orchard is a Sadaqah for the poor so that it becomes expiation for this action.’ (Az-Zawajir, vol. 1, pp. 311)

Dear Islamic brothers! How important was Jama’at in the sight of our pious predecessors you must have heard! In their sight, bigger trouble was to miss a Salah with Jama’at as compared to wasting of wealth.

Masjid-filling movement

Dear Islamic brothers! Dawat-e-Islami is a Sunnah-inspiring Madani movement and wants to make every child of Muslim Ummah firm Salah-offering person by any means. Let’s together support Dawat-e-Islami in this righteous act. We should not only offer Salah with Jama’at regularly ourselves, but we should also intensify this campaign of making others Salah-offering. Whenever we go to the Masjid for offering Salah with Jama’at, we should take others to Masjid too by persuading them to offer Salah with Jama’at with the intention to act upon Madani In’aam No. 2 out of 72 Madani In’amaat given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

Dear Islamic brothers! If because of us even one person becomes Salah offering, as long as he keeps offering his Salah, we will also get reward for each Salah he offers and if not then, at least we will certainly get the reward of giving invitation towards righteousness. Teach Salah to those who do not know how to offer Salah properly. To learn Sunnah and the rulings of Salah, Wudu, and Ghusl; get admission in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic brothers) of Dawat-e-Islami after ‘Isha. In this, learn the Holy Quran yourself and teach others too. Whenever he who learned from us, will recite the Holy Quran, we will also get reward for his recitation. We should also act upon Sunnah and

keep on trying to persuade others too. Run a powerful campaign for self-reforming and reforming others through travelling in Sunnah-Inspired Madani Qafilahs and Madani Daurah, and start making continuous and tireless efforts in making Muslims “Pious”. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there will be heap of reward and success in both worlds.

In this sinful era, by having great passion for the well-wishing of Muslims and to make them habitual Salah offering people with Jama’at, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has provided us with Madani In’amaat; the comprehensive collection of Shari’ah and Tareeqah; containing the methods of doing virtuous deeds easily and to abstain from sins. Among these Madani In’amaat, one Madani In’aam is:

“Today, did you offer all the five Salahs in the first row of the Masjid, with Jama’at (Congregation), attending the primary Takbeer? Did you try to take at least one person to the Masjid with you each time?”

If each and every Salah offering person among us, becomes practicing to this Madani In’aam, then the day is not far when our Masajid will become full with Salah offering people, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Moreover, Keep in mind that first Takbeer is called Takbeer-e-Aula, it is also known as Takbeer-e-Tahrimah. One of the concessions available to us in order to get its reward is that if we join the Imam even in the Ruku’ of first Rak’at, we will still get the reward of Takbeer-e-Aula (first Takbeer.)

(Al-Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 69, Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 509)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The benefits and wisdom of offering Salah in congregation

Dear Islamic brothers! Make a habit of offering Salah in congregation and stand committed to the routine of offering Salah in congregation with punctuality. When the time of Salah reaches, leave all your work and come to

Masjid to offer congregational Salah! Offering Salah with congregation bears great wisdom. Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه establishes question that why is Salah offered in congregation, what is the wisdom behind this? Why we go to Masjid? He then answers himself by saying that there are great worldly and religious wisdom behind congregation.

Worldly wisdom is as follows:

٭ With the blessing of congregation, community helps maintain discipline. Muslims should choose their premier and leader in all of their matters in the same way they choose Imam and then they should obey the leader in the same way the Muqtadi (one who prays behind an Imam) obeys the Imam.

٭ Congregation increases unity among each other.

٭ Meeting five times every day and convey Salaam to each other removes enmity from the heart.

٭ Habit of punctuality establishes in the community as everyone runs (towards Masjid) at the time of congregation.

٭ The congregation breaks the arrogance of an arrogant person. As such, the King has to stand with the poor.

٭ Masjid is our place of consultation (Dar-ush-Shura), where Muslims can gather and do important consultation, as though daily five conferences of the community take place in Masjid.

Religious benefits are:

٭ Acceptance of one person’s Salah gets everyone’s (Salah) accepted.

٭ In congregation, a person beseeches in the blessed court of Allah Almighty through a lawyer, i.e. Imam; which increases its worth.

٭ Ten virtues are written on every step taken towards and coming from Masjid.

٭ Congregation teaches respect of religious leaders, scholars and Sufis. (Rasaail Na’eemiyyah - Israar-ul-Ahkam, pp. 288)

Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are very fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed us with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy spreading the call towards righteousness in more than 103 departments for preaching Islam. ‘Majlis Hajj-o-‘Umrah’ is also one of these departments. It has been established to properly teach the manners of visiting the Baytullah and blessed Raudah and to teach the necessary rulings to Islamic brothers and sisters who go to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah. The expert preachers (Islamic brothers) of this Majlis go to Haji camps in the days of Hajj and teach the manners to male Hajj pilgrims every year, whereas female preachers (Islamic sisters) teach these manners to female Hajj pilgrims.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Those who go to Makkah and Madinah for Hajj and visit to Madinah are presented with the books Rafiq-ul-Haramayn and Rafiq-ul- Mu’tamireen, written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat as a gift under the supervision of this Majlis so that the guests of the House of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can succeed in performing this worship in a proper manner.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is himself ‘greedy for good deeds’ and also persuades the Muslim Ummah to perform good deeds. He has presented 19 Madani In’amaat for Hajj and the journey to Madinah in the form of questions.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 55, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about neighbour

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about neighbour.

Two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 In the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the best neighbour is the one who is a well-wisher of his neighbour. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 379, Hadees 1951)

2 The one who causes suffering to his neighbour, undoubtedly causes suffering to me, and the one who causes suffering to me, displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 241, Hadees 13)

3 It is stated in the book ‘ Nuzhat-ul-Qaari ’: Who is a neighbour? Everyone knows this matter according to his situation and norms.

(Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 5, pp. 568)

Announcement

Rest of the important Madani pearls in relation to ‘ neighbour ’ will be mentioned in the learning sessions. Therefore, in order to learn these Madani pearls, do participate in these learning sessions.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 19 July 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls about neighbour

1 Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The rights of the neighbour also include the following: One should be the first to say Salam to his neighbour; one should not have a long conversation with him; one should not excessively enquire about his affairs; one should visit him if he becomes ill; one should comfort and help him when he is in trouble; one should congratulate him on happy occasions and participate in them; one should forgive his mistakes; one should not peep into the house of his neighbour from the roof; one should not narrow the path leading to the house of his neighbour; one should not try to see whatever his neighbour takes to his house; one should cover up the faults of his neighbour; one should immediately help his neighbour if he suffers any accident or problem; one should not be careless about the safety of the house of his neighbour if he is out; one should not listen to anything against his neighbour and should lower his eyes instead of looking at his family members; one should softly talk to the children of his neighbour; one should guide his neighbour on those matters of the world or religion which he is unaware of. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 267, summarized)

2 A person came to the court of Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said, ‘My neighbour causes suffering to me, swears at me and treats me harshly.’ He said, ‘If he has disobeyed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about you, so you should obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about him.’ (Ibid, pp. 266)

3 It is narrated: On the Day of Judgement, a destitute neighbour will make a claim against his rich neighbour, ‘O my Lord! [Please] ask him why he deprived me of his kind treatment and why he closed his door for me.’ (Ibid)

4 A person reverently said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! It is mentioned that so-and-so woman offers Salah, keeps Sawm and gives charity all in abundance but there is another thing; she bothers her neighbours with her tongue.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘She is in Hell.’ They said, ‘It is often mentioned that so-and-so woman performs (Nafl acts of worship like) Salah, Sawm and charity in small number. She gives pieces of cheese in charity and does not bother her neighbours with her tongue.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘She is in Paradise.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 441, Hadees 9681)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a when afflicted by the evil eye

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a when afflicted by the evil eye ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہ اَللّٰھُمَّ اَذْھِبْ حَرَّھَا وَ بَرْدَھَا وَ وَصَبَھَا

Translation: Allah’s Name (I) begin with, O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Remove the heat and the cold and the calamity of this (evil eye) from him.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 6, pp. 184, Hadees 7160)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِّ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

