Muballigha must read the bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Why don’t we fear?

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged. If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There will be no shade on the Day of Judgement except for the Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three persons will remain beneath the shade of the Divine throne. It was humbly asked, ‘O the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be those people?’ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(1) The one who relieves the distress of my Ummati (follower) (2) the one who revives my Sunnah (3) and the one who recites Salat upon me abundantly.’ (Al-Budoor-us-Saafirah, pp. 131, Hadees 366)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Broke backbone out of Divine fear

It has been narrated about Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that his back had been bent in his youth. People tried to find the cause of it many times, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave no reply. One of his students had been looking for the opportunity to ask about its reason for a long time. Finally, one day he found the opportunity and asked him about the reason for it. At first, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not give any reply, but when he continuously insisted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: When one of my teachers, who was one of the great Islamic scholars and from whom I gained the knowledge of arts and sciences in many disciplines, was about to depart this life, he said to me: O Sufyan! Do you know what has happened to me? I have persuaded people to obey Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and keep away from sins for 50 years, but regretfully, today I am about to die. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ drives me out of His court by saying that ‘you are not eligible to come into My court’.

Having heard my teacher, my back got broken out of fear. The noise of its cracking was also heard by the people who were present there at that time and I kept weeping out of the fear of my Merciful Rab. Even blood started to appear in my urine and I fell ill. When I fell seriously ill, I went to a non-Muslim Hakeem. At first, he could not diagnose my illness, then he carefully examined my face and checked my pulse and said after thinking for a while: Currently, I think there will be no young man like him among Muslims, whose liver has been ruptured out of Divine fear. (Hikayaat-us-Saliheen, pp. 45)

گناہوں نے میری کمر توڑ ڈالی مِرا حشر میں ہو گا کیا یا اِلٰہی

تیرے خوف سے تیرے ڈر سے ہمیشہ میں تھر تھر رہوں کانپتا یا اِلٰہی

گناہوں کے امراض سے نِیم جاں ہوں پئے مُرشِدی دے شِفا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From the above-mentioned parable it has become obvious that the hearts of the pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ were always filled with Divine fear. Their acts of standing, sitting, walking, in short, every day and night were spent in pondering over the Hereafter because they would give no importance to the world at all in comparison to the Hereafter. Their hearts were filled so much with Divine love that they only wanted the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Their hearts were filled with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to such extent that the horrible scenes of the Judgement Day remain in their sight all the time. But Alas! Today due to the curse of sins, we do not have Divine fear in our hearts. We remain inflexible no matter how many Ayahs about torment, blessed Ahadees about warnings for sins and parables of terrible ends of sinners we are told, we listen inattentively looking here and there. Perhaps it is due to the sins that our hearts have become so much rusty that no advice has any effect on us.

Remember! If we fearlessly spend our lives committing sins in the same way, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, we might be raised with the sinners on the Judgement Day, who are spending their lives disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and keeping away from the righteous deeds. Such people will be deprived of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Judgement Day. Due to sins, their faces will grow dark. These people will keep on running here and there on the Judgement Day, but no one will help and support them. This state has been mentioned in Ayah 33 – 37, of Surah ‘Abas, part 30:

فَاِذَا جَآءَتِ الصَّآخَّةُ٘(۳۳) یَوْمَ یَفِرُّ الْمَرْءُ مِنْ اَخِیْهِۙ(۳۴) وَ اُمِّهٖ وَ اَبِیْهِۙ(۳۵) وَ صَاحِبَتِهٖ وَ بَنِیْهِؕ(۳۶) لِكُلِّ امْرِئٍ مِّنْهُمْ یَوْمَىٕذٍ شَاْنٌ یُّغْنِیْهِؕ(۳۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then, when the deafening Shout will arrive [1] . On that day man will flee from his (own) brother. And from his mother and father. And from his wife and sons. On that day, each one has just one concern, which is sufficient for him [2] .

These criminals will be dragged to Hell. It is stated in Ayah 86 of Surah Maryam, part 16:

وَّ نَسُوْقُ الْمُجْرِمِیْنَ اِلٰى جَهَنَّمَ وِرْدًاۘ(۸۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And will drive the criminals towards Hell, thirsty.

Painful torment will be inflicted upon such sinners in Hell. It is stated in Ayah 27 of Surah Yunus, part 11:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ كَسَبُوا السَّیِّاٰتِ جَزَآءُ سَیِّئَةٍۭ بِمِثْلِهَاۙ-وَ تَرْهَقُهُمْ ذِلَّةٌؕ-مَا لَهُمْ مِّنَ اللّٰهِ مِنْ عَاصِمٍۚ-كَاَنَّمَاۤ اُغْشِیَتْ وُجُوْهُهُمْ قِطَعًا مِّنَ الَّیْلِ مُظْلِمًاؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ اَصْحٰبُ النَّارِۚ-هُمْ فِیْهَا خٰلِدُوْنَ(۲۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And (for) those who earned evils, the recompense of evil is its equivalence, and humiliation will cover them; they will have no one to save them from Allah; as if their faces are covered with segments of the dark night (covered in darkness); it is they who are the people of the fire; they will remain in it forever.

Dear Islamic sisters! From these blessed Ayahs it has become obvious that no one among mother and father, children, brothers! and best friends will help those on the Judgement Day who commit sins in the world. Such unfortunate

people will be dragged to Hell. Hell will be made the abode of such sinners for ever, if they lose their Iman (faith).

My dear Islamic sisters! Wake up to the fact and have fear after listening to the state of the sinners and spend your life performing good deeds after repenting of your sins. Alas! In our society, people commit sins secretly day and night due to the fear of their friends and family members by thinking that they might know about their sins, but do not fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is fully aware of our conditions all the time even in the darkness of the night. Further, while committing sins we do not have even the fear of the fact that we will have to read out the book of deeds, which will be full of sins, in front of all the people on the Judgement Day. Those people will also be included among them who used to respect us and gave importance in the world.

If only we have Divine fear now, in order to stay safe from the disgrace and shame of that time! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with success in protecting ourselves from committing sins! May we become the ones who spend every moment performing virtuous deeds! May we become the ones who always remember the frightful Day of the Judgement! If we are also blessed with this Divine fear, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of its blessing we will develop the mind-set to protect ourselves from sins.

Our pious predecessors would spend their days and nights performing good deeds. Every part of their body used to be filled with the fear and devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Even then they would not consider their deeds to be sufficient and would weep bitterly out of Divine fear.

I do not know whether my abode will be in Paradise or Hell!

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw Sayyiduna Sa’doon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه at Maqaam-e-Jibaanah and asked him about his condition. He replied: O Maalik! What will be the condition of the person whose morning and evening get spent in such a long journey in which there are no provisions and he will be summoned to appear in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who does justice to His bondmen. Having said this, he started crying loudly. Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I asked him about the reason for his weeping. He replied: I am neither weeping for the greed of the world, nor due to the fear

of death and trouble, but rather I am weeping for the day (on which) I could not perform any good deed. I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Lack of virtuous deeds, difficulty in achieving salvation and tough stages of the Hereafter have made me weep. I do not know whether I will go to Paradise or Hell.

After hearing this conversation full of wisdom, Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: People consider you a mad man. So he replied: You have also fallen prey to deception like worldly people. I possess no attribute of Paradise-dwellers, but the devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has penetrated into my heart, veins, flesh, blood and bones. I am lost in the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Hadaiq-ul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 222)

رہوں مَست و بے خود میں تیری وِلا میں پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable it has become obvious that our pious predecessors would weep abundantly out of Divine fear. Despite being busy performing good deeds all the time they would not consider their deeds to be sufficient. But alas! Firstly we do not perform good deeds, and secondly, if we perform good deeds, we try our best to show them to people so that they admire us.

Remember! The act which is done due to showing-off will not be accepted at all. Hence we should concentrate on our intention thoroughly before every virtuous deed so that we may know whether we are doing it for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or for getting wealth or any other worldly benefit. Unfortunately, nowadays sincerity is getting away from our acts of worship. We offer Salah so that people call us Salah-offering; we give Sadaqah and charity so that our act of generosity becomes famous among people; we perform Hajj and ‘Umrah so that people admire us; we quarrel over petty issues at home, but behave well with outsiders in order to become famous as well-mannered among people.

Remember! If the righteous deeds, we have been considering the provisions for the Hereafter and source of our salvation throughout our life, are destroyed due to show-off, so we will be left with nothing, but longing and disgrace on the Judgement Day. Let’s listen to two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the condemnation of show-off and try to protect ourselves from this spiritual disease:

… ٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The fragrance of Paradise can be smelt from a distance of five hundred years’ travel, but the one, who seeks the world with the Hereafter deeds, will not be able to have it. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Akhlaq, vol. 3, pp. 190, Hadees 7489)

… ٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will disgrace the one who performs deeds for fame. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will torment the one who performs deeds for showing-off.’

(Jami’-ul-Ahadees, vol. 7, pp. 44, Hadees 20740)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that a show-off person will not even have the fragrance of Paradise. Such a bad-practising person will be insulted and disgraced on the Judgement Day and will suffer great torment from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember, one can get fame and benefits from show-off in the world, but there will be no reward for such deeds in the Hereafter. Thus expel the desire to hear people praising you from your heart. Keep in mind all the time horrors of grave and the Hereafter and the severe punishments of Hell. Perform deeds only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make the life history of pious predecessors a source of guidance in every part of your life. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing you will attain Divine fear.

Stating the righteous deeds of the Muqarrab (beloved) people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a pious man has said: Those people (despite performing virtuous deeds abundantly) would remain terrified (by His Hidden Plan), but you are fearless (despite committing abundant sins). Those blessed personages would weep despite performing virtuous deeds, but you laugh even despite being idle. Those people would worship the whole night despite being ill and you keep

sleeping despite being healthy. They would follow the right path, but you are running on the path leading to the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Hadaiq-ul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 226)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Surely, we have become non-practising Muslims today; we have lost Divine fear and absolutely stopped following the ways of our pious predecessors. Hence today the slogans of ‘freedom of women’ and ‘women should go side by side with men’ have destroyed our young generation. Love for fashion and immodesty have increased so much that heart-breaking scenes of immodesty can be witnessed in every street, town and even home. Mixed gatherings of men and women in co-educational institutes, hospitals, offices and places of entertainment have become very common. Due to this mixed gatherings, مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ today our young generation has lost their moral values as they have fallen prey to the accursed act of having girlfriend and boyfriend. It is no secret that today how a father himself sends his young daughter to markets (without veil), a husband makes his wife a means of unlawful gaze and a brother does not even make any effort to stop his sister from unveiling.

دن لہو میں کھونا تجھے شب صبح تک سونا تجھے

شرمِ نبی خوفِ خدا یہ بھی نہیں وہ بھی نہیں

Dear Islamic sisters! When the slogan, ‘ men and women should go side by side ’ was chanted first, its curse brought the women who were safe at their homes, out of their homes and now the sentence, ‘ ladies first ’, used in west, is also being used here. First they were made equal to men and now they have been made to go one step ahead that has given rise to further boldness and immodesty. A woman thinks that she is being given respect through this sentence, though it is clear that the purpose of this sentence is not to give her any respect, but to use her beauty by befooling her for their financial

benefits. This can be revealed commonly in fashion shows, billboards, and through advertisements. To sense the need and importance of Pardah (veiling), please study the precious and prominent book on this subject ‘ Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’ [Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil] by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and also the book ‘ Faizan Surah Noor ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Also persuade the Islamic sisters of the household to study these books too.

Similarly, it can also be seen in offices, banks and hospitals. In short, wherever we go, especially at reception only modern girls are hired so that the attention of people can be obtained and their business can progress. Now immodesty has increased to such an extent that it is not felt bad to shake hand with non-Mahram. It is said very daringly that in this modern age everything is fair. Let’s listen to a parable about the condemnation of fashion in order to rebuke such modern people, make them wake up to the fact, take them out of the flood of immodesty in the name of fashion and develop fear in their hearts.

Consequence of those who wear impermissible fashion

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: (On the night of Mi’raaj), I saw some men whose skins were being cut with fire scissors. I asked, ‘Who are they?’ Jibra`eel Ameen (عَلَيْهِ السَّلَام) replied, ‘These people would adorn themselves with impermissible things.’ Further, ‘I also saw a foul-smelling pit from which the noise and outcry was being heard.’ I asked: Who are they? It was replied: ‘These are the women who would adorn themselves with impermissible things.’ (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 1, pp. 415)

Dear Islamic sisters! Tremble with fear and repent in the Divine court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lest we end our lives wearing fashion and then suffer in the same way. Alas! At present, some unwise parents themselves provide education to their children at such schools and colleges in order to make them fashionable, مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In these institutes, the education of the colourfulness and immodesty of this world is provided, where music and dance teaching classes are conducted. Some of these parents bearing such an immodest mind-set prevent their children from going to Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, observing

Sharee veiling and offering Salah. In this age, which is full of Fitnah (turmoil), where there are such unwise people in this society who oppress their children regarding religion, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there are also such parents who courageously bear the taunts of the society by following the commandments of Shari’ah. They reform their children and give them Madani Tarbiyyat (training) as per Islamic laws. Further, they also make efforts to make their own Hereafter as well as the Hereafter of their children better. Hence some of their [those who have Madani mind-set] children are privileged to become Haafizah of the Holy Quran, some Qaariah of the Holy Quran and some preachers/Muballighahs of Dawat-e-Islami.

The parents whose children are serving Islam in this manner are fully aware of the fact that the benefits of making doctors and engineers are only limited to this world, whereas righteous children benefit their parents even after their death.

Sayyiduna Buraydah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: On the Day of Judgement, parents of the one, who recited the Quran and learnt it and acted upon it, will be made to wear the crown of Noor [light] whose shinning will be like the sun and his parents will be made to wear two garments the price of which this world cannot pay . Thereupon, they will ask, ‘Why have we been made to wear these dresses?’ They would be told: ‘Because of your children holding the Holy Quran firmly (i.e. have recited, learnt and acted upon the Holy Quran).’

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 278, Raqm 2132)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees that undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will elevate the rank of a righteous person in Paradise. He will say: O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How have I got this rank? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say: Your son has made Du’a for your forgiveness. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 440, Hadees 2354)

مری آنے والی نسلیں تیرے عشق ہی میں مچلیں

انہیں نیک تُو بنانا مدنی مدینے والے!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become obvious that the parents whose children are righteous and act upon Quran and Sunnah and are Haafizah of Quran will be made to wear the precious crown the light of which will be like the sun. Such fortunate people will be made to wear very expensive dress on the Judgement Day. Their ranks will be elevated in Paradise. Hence perform virtuous deeds, recite the Holy Quran, have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in your heart not only yourself, but giving Tarbiyyat to your children also make their mind right from the beginning to have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If they develop Divine fear right from their childhood, they will protect themselves from sins throughout their life. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it in order to develop Divine fear in children.

Divine fear of a real Madani child

Once a four-year old real Madani child, who was a descendant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, was bitterly crying in a marketplace. A person, who was very enthusiastic about serving the descendants of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, asked, ‘O Beloved son! What’s the matter? If you need anything, order me. I will bring it right now.’ Hearing this, the sound of Madani child’s cry grew louder. He then said, ‘O uncle! My heart is sinking out of the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the fear of the torment of Hell!’ The person said affectionately, ‘Beloved son! You are very young; what is the cause of having so much fear at this age? Do not get worried! Children will not be tormented.’ Listening to this, the Madani child became even more fearful and said tearfully, ‘O uncle! I have seen that small pieces of wood are put around large pieces of wood in order to burn them, because small pieces of wood catch fire quickly, causing also the large pieces to burn. I fear being thrown into fire in place of small wood pieces to burn ‘big’ non-Muslims like Abu Jahl and Abu Lahab in Hell!’ (Anees-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 75, amended)

Dear Islamic sisters! Tremble with Divine fear after hearing this admonitory parable because that small child was weeping out of the fear of Hell. On the other hand, some of us do not refrain from sins even in our old age let alone youth and the childhood. We do not feel afraid even after listening to warnings of Divine torment. If anyone advises us, we do not give importance to her advice at all.

If snakes and scorpions enter our graves due to our evils, so what shall we do? If fire is lit due to our bad deeds in our graves, what shall we do? If the wealth of Iman (faith) is snatched at the time of death then what shall we do? If molten lead is put into our ears due to the curse of songs and music so what shall we do? If a thin smooth stick of fire is applied in our eyes, what shall we do? Today if a thorn pricks our foot, knife cuts our hand or we hit our legs on something, we start screaming due to pain, so why do we say about the torment of Hell, ‘ we will see whatever will happen to us ’.

Hence expel the false thought of ‘ we will see whatever will happen ’ from your heart and mind and wake up to the fact. Develop Divine fear in your heart because those who have Divine fear are the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Those who have Divine fear stay safe from sins. Those who have Divine fear live a prosperous life. Those who have Divine fear are loved by the creation of Allah. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Divine fear:

… ٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves His bondman who is pious and Allah-fearing, carefree of people and does not desire people to be around him, but rather lives in seclusion.

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, pp. 1212, Hadees 7432)

… ٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say, ‘Take him out of the fire who had ever remembered Me or had My fear at any place’. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 469, Hadees 740)

… ٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Everything fears the one who fears Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes the one frightened of everything who fears someone else other than Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 541, Hadees 974)

Monthly Learning Halqa—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Have fear of Allah’s Hidden Plan, His Be-Niyazi, His displeasure, His accountability and the torment He gives and repent of your sins. Turn to righteous deeds. It is very necessary to have the company of righteous people in order to be steadfast in repentance and make mind to

perform virtuous deeds because having the company of righteous people brings about great blessings. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a source of attaining good company. You also associate yourself with this Madani environment and participate actively in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. Participate personally in 8 Madani activities. Monthly Learning Halqa is one of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqa. Arrange Learning Halqa on the third Thursday of every month. It should be arranged at Halqa, Area or City level (duration 2 hours at the most). Keep the day, time and appropriate place (facilitating veil) for the Learning Halqa fixed. Teach them Wudu (ablution), Ghusl (bath), Salah, Sunnah and Du’as as per the methodology provided by the Madani Markaz. Moreover, also teach them Sharee rulings related to women etc., the method of Dars, Bayan, the terminologies of Dawateislami and pronouncing words correctly. Furthermore, also make them memorize Aurad and Wazaif (invocations) from Shajrah e Attaria. Instil the Madani mind-set of expanding the Madani activities through individual effort. Explain them the 8 Madani Activities and politely assign any responsibility. Impart training to the Islamic sisters as per the Madani pearls granted by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَتْ بَرَکَاتُہُمُ الْعَالِیَہ and Markazi Majlis e Shura. The participation target is minimum 7 Islamic sisters per Zayli Halqa.

Family quarrels got patched up

An Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) had lots of discord at home. The tension was building up day by day. They had quarrels quite often due to which there was no pleasant environment at home. Due to this situation, she was very worried. There was no way of creating a pleasant environment at home. In the meantime, she had the idea of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah from ‘Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah’. She started reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah with the intention to get rid of family discord. By virtue of the blessings of reciting Shajarah ‘Aaliyyah her family quarrels got patched up and a peaceful environment was created at her home.

مشکلیں حل کر شہِ مُشکل کُشا کے واسِطے

کر بَلائیں رَد شہیدِ کربَلا کے واسِطے

If you have been blessed with any Madani bahar (parable), then please have it submitted to the Zimmedar Islamic sister after the Ijtima.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Does the door of Paradise open or Hell?

Sayyiduna Sarooq-ul-Joo Taabi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah so long that his feet would swell. Seeing this state, his family members would feel pity on him and they would start weeping. One day, his mother said: O my son! Why do you not take care of your weak body? Why do you force it to do so much labour? Don’t you feel any pity on your body? Take rest for some time. Has Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created the fire of Hell only for you, that is, no one will go there except you? In reply to his mother he humbly said: Dear mother! A man should worship in every state because there will be only two things on the Judgement Day—either I will be forgiven or held accountable. If I am forgiven, it will be only the blessing and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and if my accountability is made, it will be His justice. Hence now I will not take rest and will continue to try my best to kill my Nafs. When the time of his death approached, he started wailing. People asked him: You have spent the whole life in worship and spiritual exercises. Now why are you weeping? He then replied: Who should weep more than me because the door which I have been knocking for seventy years will be opened today, but I do not know whether the door of Paradise or Hell will be opened. Would that my mother had not given birth to me and I would have not seen this hardship!

(Hikayaat-us-Saliheen, pp. 36)

کاش کے نہ دُنیا میں پیدا مَیں ہوا ہوتا قَبر و حشر کا ہر غم ختم ہوگیا ہوتا

آہ! سَلبِ ایماں کا خوف کھائے جاتا ہے کاش کے مِری ماں نے ہی نہیں جَنا ہوتا

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how great the life style of our pious predecessors was! Despite offering long Salahs they used to be very scared due to Divine fear and fear of Hell. On the other hand, if we analyse our

character, we will feel ashamed because we do not have good deeds; we do not take interest in Salahs, recitation of the Holy Quran etc., and nor do we act upon Sunnahs. We had a deep yearning to reform others, but do not care for our own reformation. We do not give up the habits of committing sins, talking uselessly and the company of bad friends; we do not get ready to repent of our sins, and nor do we get frightened of agonies of death, torments of the grave, Judgement Day and Hell. In short, our condition is getting bad to worse day by day and we are committing sins abundantly. If only we can get rid of the disease of sins! If only we become those who spend every moment performing virtuous deeds! If only the tears keep on strolling from our eyes due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the sacred love of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If only we also get blessed with the fear of Hell as our pious predecessors did!

یا ربّ بچا لے تُو مجھے نارِ جَحیم سے

اَولاد پر بھی بلکہ جہنَّم حرام ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has no limit. If a person repents truly and sincerely in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and becomes obedient to Him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins and makes him His beloved bondman because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives all the wrongdoings of those who repent. He blesses the one, who repents, with His closeness; He grants Paradise to the one who repents; He grants freedom from Hell to the one who repents. Let’s listen to two sayings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of repentance:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: If you commit so many sins that they reach the sky, and then you repent in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will accept your repentance. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 490, Hadees 4248)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Upon the repentance of His bondman, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased more than the person whose camel is found again after being lost in the jungle.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 191, Hadees 6309)

Surely, repentance is something which if a person makes from the bottom of his heart, he becomes the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased by the repentance of His bondman and accepts the repentance of His sinful bondman.

Repentance of young man of Bani Israel

There was a young man in Bani Israel who worshipped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for twenty years and then disobeyed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for twenty years. He then saw in the mirror and found that some of his beard’s hairs had turned white. He became sad and started saying: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I worshipped You for twenty years and disobeyed You for twenty years. Will my repentance be accepted if I come to You? He heard a voice: You loved Me, I loved you, then you left Me and I left you too; you disobeyed Me and I gave you a respite and if you come to Me after repenting [of your sins], I will accept your repentance.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 62)

کر لے توبہ رَبّ کی رحمت ہے بڑی

قبر میں ورنہ سزا ہوگی کڑی

Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy protecting Muslims from sins and taking them to the virtuous path all over the world. It is busy making efforts in presenting call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments in order to propagate this Madani activity further. One of these departments is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. The main aim of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing and to persuade them to act

upon the Madani In’amaat. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May all the Islamic brothers and sisters act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the zimmedars of Dawat-e-Islami propagate these Madani In’amaat in their Halqahs, areas, cities, villages, goths (small villages) so that every Muslim practises them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the greatest reward of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s all make intention that we will not only try to act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic sisters! In today’s speech, we have heard that:

§ Righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ tremble with Divine fear.

§ Those who have Divine fear are the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ Divine fear is the source of salvation from Hell.

§ Everything feels frightened of the person having Divine fear.

§ In addition, we have heard that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts the repentance of those who repent.

§ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very pleased by the repentance of His bondman.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with Divine fear and enable us to make true repentance!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of clothing

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls of clothes:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The veil between the eyes of the jinn and the Satr (parts of the body that must be concealed) of people is to recite بِسـۡمِ اللّٰه when anyone is about to take off his clothes.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 59, Hadees 2504)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti A h mad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘As a wall or a curtain serves as a barrier to the sight of people, this Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will serve as a barrier to the sight of jinns, preventing them from seeing a person’s private parts.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 268)

2. Despite having the means to wear good clothing, if a person avoids them due to humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the attire of Karamah [a heavenly dress].’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 4778)

3. Clothing must be obtained from H alal earnings. No S alah, whether Fard or Nafl, is accepted if offered in the clothing obtained from H araam earnings. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 36)

1. Start wearing clothes from the right side. For example, when wearing your upper garment, put your right arm into the right sleeve first and then your left arm into the left sleeve. (Ibid)

2. In the same way, when putting on the lower garment, put your right foot into the right side first and then the left foot into the left side. When taking clothes off, do the opposite, i.e. start from the left side.

3. Men should wear only masculine clothing and women should wear only feminine clothing. Take the same care when dressing small children.

4. Wearing clothes showing arrogance is forbidden. Whether one has become arrogant or not can be determined by pondering over one’s feelings. If one has the same state after wearing the clothes he had before wearing, it indicates that he has not become arrogant. If the previous state does not exist anymore, this shows he has become arrogant. Therefore, he should refrain from wearing such clothes because arrogance is a very evil trait. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 409; Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

To learn various Sunan, purchase and study the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

