اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Recitation of the Holy Quran and Muslims

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ فِیْ یَوْمٍ اَلْفَ مَرَّۃٍ لَمْ یَمُتْ حَتّٰی یَرٰی مَقْعَدَہُ مِنَ الْجَنَّۃِ

i.e. The one who recites Durood upon me one thousand times a day will not die until he sees his abode in Paradise. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 326, Hadees 2590)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Undoubtedly, reciting the Holy Quran, listening to it and acting upon it is a means of blessings and salvation in the Hereafter. But unfortunately, Muslims don’t have time to recite, comprehend and act upon it. Some Islamic sisters attain this privilege in Ramadan-ul-Kareem, but some don’t even recite it in the Holy Ramadan, in fact even remain deprived of

beholding it. Similarly, some people waste their precious time in the name of “time pass” in useless gatherings, reading newspapers, watching films, dramas or musical programs, having political and sports discussions, playing mobile or computer games. If such people spend their precious time in reciting at least one Parah everyday instead of wasting it in such useless activities, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will have numerous virtues written in their Book of Deeds.

Remember! Glorious Quran contains the rulings of Halal and Haraam, warnings, admonitions, pearls of advice, parables and affairs of blessed Ambiya عَلَیْہِمُ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلام and previous nations, and how Paradise and Hell are. In addition to it, it contains such treasure of knowledge that cannot come to an end even until the Day of Judgement.

It is mentioned in Dawat-e-Islami’s publishing department, Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s book “Quranic Wonders”: The Holy Quran is although a combination of 30 Parahs, but in essence, it contains a treasure of millions, rather billions of such sciences and wisdom that can never come to an end. It is a famous couplet of a blessed saint:

جَمِیْعُ الْعِلْمِ فِی الْقُرْاٰنِ لٰکِنْ تَقَاصَرَ عَنْہُ اَفْہَامُ الرِّجَالِ

i.e. knowledge of all sciences exists in the Holy Quran but the intellects of people are unable to comprehend it.

Holy Quran does not only contain the knowledge of sciences, but the truth is that it contains evident and detailed knowledge regarding every single thing of this universe. Meaning that information regarding every star of the sky, every drop of the oceans, every straw of grass of the world’s greenery, every sand particle of the deserts, every leaf of the trees, every corner of ‘Arsh and Kursi, every corner of the universe, every incident of the past, all present affairs, and every event of the future has explicitly been mentioned in detail in the Glorious Quran.

Holy Quran is such treasure of knowledge and sciences that can never come to an end. In fact, blessed scholars will keep deriving [pleasantly] strange and astonishing branches of sciences from this vast ocean [of knowledge] until

the Day of Judgement and hundreds and thousands of books will be compiled.

(Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’a Gharaib-ul-Quran, pp. 420, 419)

So today, let’s listen to some faith-refreshing parables and narrations of the reciters of this highly esteemed and dignified Book so that we also develop the passion and eagerness of reciting this sacred book of Allah Almighty too.

Angels used to come to listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: One night, Sayyiduna Usayd Bin Hudair رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was reciting the Holy Quran near the place where he would tie up his horse. All of a sudden, his horse started to jump. He started the recitation of the Holy Quran again and the horse started jumping again. Same thing happened the third time. Sayyiduna Usayd Bin Hudair رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: I was scared in case the horse tramples (my son) Ya’hya. Therefore, I went towards the horse and saw that an umbrella has cast a shadow over my head which has lit up lamps inside it. Then it got lost in the atmosphere and disappeared from my sight.

In the morning, I went in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Last night, I was reciting the Holy Quran at the place where I tie up my horse. All of a sudden, my horse started to jump. When I came outside, I saw an umbrella casting a shadow over my head having lit up lamps inside it. Then, it kept ascending in the air to the extent that it disappeared from my sight. At that time, (my son) Ya’hya was near the horse. I was scared in case the horse tramples him.’ Listening to it, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘They were angels who came to listen to your Qira`at [recitation of the Holy Quran]. Had you continued reciting the Holy Quran, then people would have seen them in the morning and none of them would have remained concealed.’

(Muslim, Raqm 796, pp. 311)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Excellence of reciting the Holy Quran

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! We came to know from the aforementioned narration that the place where the Holy Quran is recited, angels of mercy descend there. Mercy of Allah Almighty descends there. Due to the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran, other creatures in the surroundings also witness the Divine manifestation. As you have heard that one companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ kept reciting the Holy Quran and his horse witnessed the angels, and he himself also witnessed angels in the shape of a lit up lamp.

Remember! Holy Quran is an extremely sacred Word of Allah Almighty. Reciting it, teaching it, listening to it and making others listen to it are all acts of reward. Not only reciting it is an act of reward but even beholding it is also an act of worship.

It has been stated in a Hadees: اَلنَّظْرُ فِی الْمُصْحَفِ i.e. Beholding the Holy Quran is [an act of] worship. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 187, Hadees 7860)

This is the reason why the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم persuaded the blessed Companions عَلَیْہِمُ الرِّضْوَان from time to time to recite the Holy Quran. Moreover, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned its excellences in various Ahadees too. In this relation, let’s listen to three Ahadees.

Will be made to wear heavenly attire

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, a Quran reciter will come and the Holy Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty, make him wear the heavenly attire.’ So he will be made to wear a heavenly attire of nobility. Then the Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty! Increase it.’ Then he will be made to wear the crown of nobility. Then the Quran will humbly say: ‘O Allah Almighty! Be pleased with him.’ Then Allah Almighty will get pleased with him. Then, it will be said to the Quran reciter: ‘Keep reciting the Holy Quran and keep ascending the ranks of Paradise.’ And he will be given one blessing upon every Ayah. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 419, Hadees 2924)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Allah Almighty removes worldly calamities from the one who listens to the Holy Quran and removes the calamities of the Hereafter from the one who recites it. Listening to one Ayah of the Holy Quran is even more than the treasure of gold. Reciting its one Ayah is superior to everything that exists beneath the ‘Arsh. (Musnad Al Firdaus, vol. 5, pp. 259, Hadees 8122)

3. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who recites one letter of the book of Allah Almighty will receive one virtuous deed that will be equal to ten. I do not say that Alif Laam Meem الٓـمّٓ is one letter. Rather, Alif اَلِف is one letter, Laam لام is one letter and Meem میم is one letter. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 417, Hadees 2919)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! From the aforementioned Ahadees, we came to know that by reciting the Holy Quran and listening to its recitation, our worldly calamities and problems get removed. Muslims remain safe from troubles and evils. Recitation of the Holy Quran is better than the worldly wealth. In fact, reciting one letter of the Holy Quran makes one earn ten virtuous deeds.

We further came to know that the hearts of those who keep reciting the Holy Quran attain solace and tranquillity. Mercy of Allah Almighty showers upon such fortunate people immensely. Such people will be made to enter Paradise in the Hereafter, to the extent that they will be made to ascend Heavenly ranks according to their recitation of the Holy Quran. Therefore, we should develop a habit of taking time out every day for the recitation of the Holy Quran wholeheartedly so that we may also attain the blessings of the Holy Quran.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadan! How fortunate are we that Allah Almighty blessed us to witness the great splendours of Ramadan once again. Remember! Ramadan “ is also the month of the revelation of the Holy Quran” . What a great deprivation it would be if we are unable to recite the Holy Quran even in this sacred month. This is the same very sacred month in which the reward of a Nafl act is equal to a Fard act and the reward of a Fard act is multiplied 70 times .

Making the most out of the presence of this sacred month, let’s make an intention that we will be privileged to recite the Holy Quran abundantly especially in this sacred month. Set a time for everyday. For example, from this time to this time, I will be privileged to recite this much Holy Quran. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ اللهُ عَنْهُما had fixed a set amount of the Holy Quran to be recited. During this time, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would not speak to anyone.

In case you do not know how to recite the Holy Quran, then take admission in Madrassa-tul-Madinah Balighat (for Islamic sisters) and try to learn it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ matured Islamic sisters are taught to recite the Holy Quran with correct rulings and Makharij (articulation). If you know how to recite it, then teach others. It is a very big act of piety. If someone starts offering Salah or starts reciting the Holy Quran correctly due to our small effort, then we are hopeful from the mercy of Allah Almighty that a great treasure of reward will be collected for us, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Passion of the recitation of the Holy Quran and righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن

O devotees of Awliya! Our noble saints رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن spend their entire life following the commandments of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat, these fortunate individuals also offer Sunnahs and Mustahabbat punctually. They passionately stay awake at nights and worship Allah Almighty and observe Sawm during the day. These possessors

of noble character not only recite the Glorious Quran abundantly themselves but also impart the teachings of the Holy Quran to Muslims too. For persuasion, let’s listen to some parables of the righteous predecessors رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن so that we also develop a similar kind of mind-set. Moreover, following in their footsteps, we also become among those who recite the Holy Quran abundantly and also teach it to others.

Embraced Islam by looking at [the acts of] worship and ascetic practices

In the early days of Islam, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ built a Masjid in the courtyard of his house. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to recite the Holy Quran and offer Salah there. Seeing this faith-refreshing act of his, people used to gather around him. His recitation of the Holy Quran, acts of worship and ascetic practices and crying in the Divine fear of Allah Almighty used to impress people a lot. Due to this very action of his, many people entered the fold of Islam. (Al Riyad …, un Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 92)

Sahabah’s عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ way of reciting the Holy Quran

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: (Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen) Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would complete the Quran in one night. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 270)

Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtaza رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would start reciting the Holy Quran when placing his foot in the stirrup while mounting on a horse and would complete reciting it by the time he would have his other foot in the stirrup and be firmly sat on the saddle of the horse. (Shawahid-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 212)

What a majesty of the devotee of Quran

Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to complete the entire Quran once everyday. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always observe Sawm during the day and worship the entire night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer 2 Rak’at Salah (Tahiyyat-ul-Masjid) whichever Masjid he would pass by. With the intention of

expressing the blessing, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘I have completed the Holy Quran and implored in the Divine court next to every pillar of Jami’ Masjid.’

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had especial love for Salah and the recitation of the Holy Quran. One gets envious of the mercies that were showered upon him. Therefore, it is narrated: ‘Whenever people would pass by his blessed shrine, voice of the recitation of the Holy Quran could be heard from his blessed grave.’

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 364-366; summarised)

Competing in reciting the Holy Quran

(Once), Sayyiduna Sheikh Baha-ud-Deen Zakariyya Multani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to his friends at night time: ‘Is there anyone among you who would offer two rak’at Salah tonight and recite the entire Quran in one Rak’at?’ No one among the attendees had the courage to reply. Sayyiduna Sheikh Baha-ud-Deen Zakariyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood up himself and started offering 2 Rak’at Salah. In the first Rak’at, he recited the entire Quran with further 4 parahs; and in the second Rak’at, he recited Surah e Ikhlas and completed his Salah. (Fawaad-ul-Fawaaid, pp. 62; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that how eagerly the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty would recite the Holy Quran day and night. They loved the sacred book so much that they would complete reciting it within a very short span of time. But alas! Majority of us nowadays are unaware of the Quranic teachings. Some unfortunate people don’t even know how to recite the Holy Quran even by looking at it and those who do know how to recite it don’t even open the Holy Quran in years. Many months pass by and the houses of Muslims remain deprived of the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran. Let’s make an intention that while acting upon these Ahadees and adopting the practices of righteous predecessors, we will not only start reciting the Holy Quran ourselves from today but will also persuade others to do so.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is that Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool whose Madani aim contains the persuasion of spreading the teachings of the Holy Quran. What is that Madani aim? Let’s repeat it together: “I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ”. How can one arrive at the destination without the guidance of the Holy Quran? How can one hope for success while forgetting the teachings of the Holy Quran? Holy Quran is the source of guidance.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is striving in different ways to spread the teachings of the Holy Quran. To spread the teachings of Holy Quran thousands of Madrasa-tul-Madinahs (for Islamic sisters) are conducted daily in many homes in different countries of the world.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Holy Quran is that sacred Book in which Allah Almighty has mentioned so many commandments. Some of the commandments are such that Allah Almighty has commanded Muslims to act upon. For example, offering Salah, paying Zakah, observing Siyam of blessed Ramadan, performing Hajj if one is capable of doing so, fulfilling the rights of parents and treating them nicely, women to observe Shar’i veil, greet Islamic sister with Salaam and being courteous to them. Whereas, some evil actions are such that Allah Almighty has commanded to abstain from. For example, robbery, committing fornication, dealing with usury [interest], drinking alcohol, lying, unlawful business transactions, being furious on someone unnecessarily, calling someone with bad names and various other evil actions. In short, this sacred book mentions all those things by virtue of acting upon which a Muslim not only benefits in this world but will also اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ attain immense reward in the Hereafter too. Therefore, we should act upon these commandments wholeheartedly with steadfastness so that our Dunya [this world] and the Hereafter can get better.

Allah Almighty says in part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah No. 155:

وَ هٰذَا كِتٰبٌ اَنْزَلْنٰهُ مُبٰرَكٌ فَاتَّبِعُوْهُ وَ اتَّقُوْا لَعَلَّكُمْ تُرْحَمُوْنَۙ(۱۵۵)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: And this (Qur’aan) is the blessed Book which We have revealed; so follow it and practise piety, that you may receive mercy.

Right of the Holy Quran upon the Ummah

Under the aforementioned sacred Ayah, it is stated in “Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan”, vol. 3, pp. 247: From this Ayah, we came to know that one of the rights of the Holy Quran upon the Ummah is (also) that they follow this sacred book and refrain from disobeying its commandments. Unfortunately, in the current era, Muslims are in a very pitiful state in regards to acting upon the Holy Quran. Today, instead of reciting this sacred book everyday, Muslims have kept it in their homes wrapped up in beautiful covers and at their business places as a means of blessings. Even those who do recite it neither recite it correctly nor do they make efforts to understand what Allah Almighty has mentioned for them in this sacred book.

History is evident that as long as Muslims kept this sacred book highly esteemed and strictly followed its rules and commandments, until then, their grandeur was acclaimed all over the world. The hearts of non-believers would tremble with fear as soon as they would hear the names of Muslims. And since Muslims have stopped acting upon the commandments of the Holy Quran, they are being disgraced all over the world and have become dependent upon others. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 3, pp. 247; summarised)

Persuasion of acting upon the commandments of the Holy Quran

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The purpose of the Books of Allah Almighty is for one to act according to their commandments, not merely recite it in a sequence through tongue. Its example is that a king sends a letter to one of the rulers of his kingdom and orders him to build a palace for him in a so-and-so city. Now when the ruler gets the letter, he doesn’t get the palace built as instructed in the letter, but reads the letter everyday. So when the king goes there and does not see a palace built there, then certainly the

ruler will be deserving of punishment because he did not act upon the order of the king despite reading it.

So in the Holy Quran Allah Almighty has commanded His bondmen to act upon the pillars of Islam, such as offering Salah, observing Siyam, etc. If people merely keep reciting the Holy Quran and do not act upon the commandments of Allah Almighty, then their mere recitation of the Holy Quran is not beneficial in true sense. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, Al-Baqarah Taht-ul-Ayah 64, vol. 1, pp.155 summarized)

Command of reciting the Holy Quran and its requirements

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The way we have been commanded to recite the Holy Quran and there have been numerous virtues mentioned for it in Ahadees to persuade us, similarly, we have also been commanded to act upon its commandments. There have been severe warnings of torments as well for those who do not act upon the commandments of the Holy Quran. Along with reading the translation of Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman, we should also read its commentary Sirat-ul-Jinaan/Khaza’in-ul-Irfan or Noor-ul-Irfan. Contemplating and pondering over the Holy Quran and comprehending it is a highly ranked act of worship.

Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reciting one Ayah while comprehending and contemplating is better than reciting the entire Quran without contemplating it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 170)

Punishment of not acting upon the Holy Quran

It is narrated by the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی: At times, a person starts reciting a Surah and angels keep supplicating for mercy for him until he recites it completely. At times, a person starts reciting a Surah and angels keep cursing him until he recites it completely. It was humbly asked: ‘How is that?’ The reply was: ‘When a person considers its Halal to be Halal and Haraam to be Haraam, then angels supplicate for mercy for him, otherwise, they curse him. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 365)

May Allah Almighty enable us to act upon the commandments of the Holy Quran, save us from the torment of the grave and the Hereafter, grant us

wellbeing in this world and the Hereafter, make the Holy Quran a means of our salvation and grant us Divine pleasure due to the blessings of the Holy Quran.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In order to understand the Holy Quran properly and comprehending its commandments, make a habit of listening, or reading out to others or reading individually the translation and commentary from Tafseer “Sirat-ul-Jinaan” daily and earn abundant of reward. Let’s listen to some of the specialities of the Tafseer “Sirat-ul-Jinaan” .

Introduction of “Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan”

1. There are two translations for every Ayah in Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan . One is the translation of Quran, namely Kanz ul Iman of ‘Ala Hazrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ; and the second translation is with the name of Kanz ul ‘Irfan which is in simpler Urdu.

2. In Tafseer Sirat ul Jinaan, old and new Quranic commentaries and selected content from a huge number of books written on other Islamic sciences by authentic scholars, especially A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, has been presented in a simplified manner.

3. Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan is neither too long nor too short, in fact it is average sized.

4. A simple method has been adopted in Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan so that even a common Muslim could also benefit from it.

5. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, social evils as well as their torments have also been mentioned for the reformation of deeds.

6. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, spiritual diseases have also been discussed in detail.

7. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, reformatory content regarding treating parents etc., nicely is also present.

8. In Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan, beliefs and core affairs of Ahl-us-Sunnah have been explained with proofs.

You too make an intention that you will recite at least 3 Ayahs with translation and commentary from Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinaan daily. Moreover, you will not only act upon the teachings of the Holy Quran yourself but will also persuade other Islamic sisters too. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding the recitation of the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s have the privilege to listen to a few Madani pearls of recitation of the Holy Quran. First listen to the following two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Recite the Holy Quran as it will come to intercede for its reciters on the Judgement Day. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 314, Hadees 1874)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The best worship of my Ummah is recitation of the Glorious Quran. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

٭ The Holy Quran should be recited in an exceedingly elegant voice, and if somebody does not possess a pleasant voice, he should try to beautify his voice when reciting. However, it is impermissible to recite in such a tone that causes the improper utterance, missing or adding letters, like the way that singers do. Take utmost care in upholding the rules and regulations of recitation [Tajweed]. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 694)

٭ It is Mustahab to perform Tilawat in the state of Wudu, facing the Qiblah, and whilst wearing good garment. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

٭ It is Mustahab to recite Ta’awwuz ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰه ’ when beginning Tilawat, and it is Sunnah to recite Tasmiyah ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the start of a Surah, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

٭ Reciting the Holy Quran by looking at it is preferable than reciting it by heart. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 1, pp. 21)

٭ It is stated in a blessed Hadees that the person who recited the Holy Quran by looking at it, two thousand virtues will be written in his account and the one who recited verbally without looking at will get one thousand virtues written in his account. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, vol. 1, pp. 260, Raqm 2301)

٭ It is Mustahab to cry while reciting the Holy Quran (Siratul Jinan 526/5)

٭ One should not try to complete the recitation of the Holy Quran in less than three days, instead try to complete it in at least three, seven or forty days so that the meanings and contexts of the recited Ayahs can be understood properly. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 238)

٭ One should recite the Holy Quran slowly and calmly, and properly by following the phonetics of the Arabic language. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 238)

٭ The best time for the recitation of the Holy Quran is the last ten days of Ramadan and the first ten days of Zul-Hijjah. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran, Urdu, pp. 239)

Announcements

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The system of the world goes well by virtue of presenting the call towards righteousness and forbidding [people] to commit evil acts. If it is stopped, then disturbance will occur. People will continue to do good as long as they perform virtuous deeds and call people towards righteousness, and refrain from evils and forbid from them (evils).

(Nayki ki Da'wat, pp. 16) اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Islamic sisters go for Madani Daura (visit) on every _________ from _______ at ____________. You are also requested to make a firm intention to attend Madani Daura. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

All the Islamic sisters should also make the following intention: ‘We will attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly’ because if we attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly, we will learn good things. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in approximately 107 departments at home and abroad. Let’s make up our mind to spend money on preventing sins and spreading Islam.

All Islamic sisters should purchase the pamphlet “Horrific grave scene of the one indulging in sins during Ramadan” as much as they can or at least 12 and distribute it and affix it at a prominent place in their home. A mindset to stay away from sins would be developed by its blessings اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaikh-e-Tareeqat Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat conducts Madani Muzakarah daily in the blessed month of Ramadan after Asr and Taraweeh Salahs. It is telecast live on Madani Channel. All Islamic sisters are requested to attend these 2 daily Madani Muzakarahs and also persuade other family members accordingly. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ countless Madani pearls of knowledge and wisdom would be obtained.

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَرَكَاتُهُمُ الْعَالِيَـه has said in Madani Muzakarah No.1113 that Islamic sisters should send their Mahrams in Madani Qafilah, as Mahram has spent so many Eids with them, he may also spend an Eid in the path of Allah Almighty. All Islamic sisters may kindly make intention to make their Mahram travel in the Madani Qafila by making individual effort on them.

Some people offer Qada of lifetime missed Salah in congregation on the last Friday of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak and assume that all the Qada Salah of lifetime have been offered by offering this one Salah. It is nothing but a sheer fallacy.

The renowned exegetist Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated, ‘One [who has missed Salah] should offer 12 Rak’at Nafl Salah in sets of two Rak’at on the last Friday of Ramadan between Zuhr and ‘Asr. In every Rak’at after Surah Al-Fatihah, recite Ayat-ul-Kursi once, Surah Al-Ikhlas thrice, Surah Al-Falaq once and Surah An-Naas once. The benefit of it is that the sin of all missed Salah she has so far offered as Qada, will be forgiven, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This does not mean at all that Qada Salah will be forgiven by it. Qada Salah will only be forgiven when offered.’

All Islamic sisters make intention to offer these 12 Nafls on Jumu’a-tul-Wada (Last Friday of Ramadan) and Salahs that have been Qada (missed) should be accounted and offered as soon as possible.

