اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Beauty of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Sayyiduna Abul Mawahib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ said, ‘I saw the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم said to me, ‘You will intercede for one hundred thousand people on the Day of Judgement.’ I asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم! How did I gain such a great status?’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Because you recite Salat and send its reward to me.’ (At-Tabqat-tul-Kubra lish-Sha’rani, vol. 2, pp. 101)

شافعِ روزِ جَزا، تم پہ کروروں دُرُود دافعِ جُملہ بلا ،تم پہ کروروں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The month of Rabi-ul-Awwal has arrived; it is the sacred month in which our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born, therefore in this month especially not only by delivering the Bayan of the different parts of the blessed life history of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the parables of Milad-un-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the interest of love for the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is increased in the heart of the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but also it is further increased by mentioning the beauty of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The topic of today’s Bayan is also the beauty of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s attentively listen to the Bayan about the beauty of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

When the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم set out for migrating from Makkah Mukarramah to Madinah Munawwarah with his few blessed companions, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by the tent of Umm-e-Ma’bad. She did not know the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but she was very wise; she used to sit by her tent and serve food etc. to travellers. This blessed caravan asked about meat and dates so that they could buy some from her, but incidentally at that time she had nothing. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a weak nanny goat at the corner of the tent and asked: ‘O Umm-e-Ma’bad, what nanny goat is this?’ She humbly said: It does not have milk in its udders and it has never given birth. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after reciting blessed بِسۡمِ اللّٰهِ moved his blessed healing hand on its udders and back and made Du’a for it. The goat then started giving milk; everyone drank sufficiently and then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم left from there. After some time Umm-e-Ma’bad’s husband came home. Having seen so much milk he surprisingly asked: O Umm-e-Ma’bad! How have we got so much milk though there is no animal that gives milk at home? She said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Just now, a blessed person had passed by this place. Abu Ma’bad said: Describe the appearance of that blessed person to me. Upon this Umm-e-Ma’bad said: ‘I saw such a person whose beauty was outstanding, whose face was beautiful and creation was very nice, very attractive and extremely beautiful, his eyes were dark and big, eyelashes long, his voice was resonant, neck shining, with

blessed thick and full beard. Both eyebrows were thin and touching each other. His blessed height was also medium, neither very tall which seems bad nor so short that looks insignificant. If he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is seen from a distance, he looks very awesome and beautiful and when seen from near, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم looks far more attractive and beautiful. Having listened to the praises of that blessed person, Abu Ma’bad said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This is that blessed person whose news we have received from Makkah Mukarramah. I wish to be in his company. If it is in my power, I must fulfill my desire.

And this is what happened, by the blessed visit of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to his house not only blessed the husband of Umm-e-Ma’bad with the wealth of Islam but also Umm-e-Ma’bad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and also bestowed the status of companionship upon them. (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 3, pp. 244)

خِلق تمہاری جمیل، خُلق تمہارا جلیل خَلق تمہاری گدا، تم پہ کروڑوں درود

Explanation of couplet:

O my Master صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Your creation is unique with no equal, unparalleled and your blessed life history and exalted manners have no parallel. That’s why all creation have become your slaves and are attached to you. Kings also felt proud of being beggars of your streets. O the soul of my faith! Countless Salawaat be upon you. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 972)

حُسن و جمالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا صد مرحبا اَوج و کمالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا صد مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how beautiful our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was that when Muslims saw his beautiful face, they decided to sacrifice their lives for him and when a non-Muslim saw his beautiful figure from head to toe, he was so impressed that he embraced Islam. Surely, neither was there, nor is there and never will there be any one like him in the past era and in the modern era.

لَم یَاتِ نَظِیرُکَ فِی نَظَرٍ مِثلِ تو نہ شد پیدا جانا

جگ راج کو تاج تورے سر سو ہے تجھ کو شہِ دَوسَرا جانا

i.e. Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! No one has ever been seen like you, nor will be seen, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not created anyone like you; the kingship of the worlds is for you, therefore we have acknowledged you to be the King of the worlds.

The beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be judged from the fact that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed the whole universe with beauty after creating all beautiful things and then bestowed greater beauty than the whole universe upon Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, the state of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام was this that when the women of Egypt saw him, they got lost in his beauty that they cut their fingers in ecstasy. This parable has been stated in the Holy Quran: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

فَلَمَّا رَاَیۡنَہٗۤ اَکۡبَرۡ نَہٗ وَ قَطَّعۡنَ اَ یۡدِیَہُنَّ وَ قُلۡنَ حَاشَ لِلّٰہِ مَا ہٰذَ ا بَشَرً ا ؕ اِنۡ ہٰذَ اۤ اِلَّا مَلَکٌ کَرِ یۡمٌ ﴿۳۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When the women saw him they praised him and cut their hands, and said, ‘Purity is to Allah - this is no human being; this is not but an honourable angel!’ (Part 12, Surah Yusuf, verse 31)

Regarding this blessed verse, in Khaza’in-ul-Irfan, Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Because they saw the luminosity of Prophethood and Risalat and the elements of humbleness and humility and great glory and from tasty food and beautiful faces along with the illumination of beauty (one who increased the beauty of the world, i.e. Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام), they got astonished and their hearts were filled with his dignity and grandeur and they were so infatuated with his beauty that they became oblivious. They took such a deep interest in the beauty of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that they did not feel the pain of cutting their own hands in reality. (Khaza’in-ul-Irfan, pp. 447)

Dear Islamic brothers! This was the state of the beauty of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that he was bestowed with more beauty than all other creatures, so just imagine what would be the state of the masterpiece of beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as his beauty was much more than Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

حُسنِ یوسف پہ کٹیں مِصر میں اَنگُشتِ زناں

سر کٹاتے ہیں تیرے نام پہ مَردانِ عرب

Umm-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said:

فَلَوۡ سَمِعُوۡا فِىۡ مِصۡرَ اَوۡصَافَ خَدِّه

لَمَا بَذَ لُوۡا فِىۡ سَوۡمِ يُوۡسُفَ مِنۡ نَقۡدٍ

i.e. if the people of Egypt had heard of the beautiful qualities of the blessed face of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they would not have spent their wealth in putting a price upon Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

لَواحِيۡ زُلَيۡخَا لَوۡ رَأَيۡنَ جَبِيۡنَهُ

لَاَثَرۡنَ بِالۡقَطۡعِ الۡقُلُوۡبَ عَلَي الۡاَيۡدِي

i.e. if the women criticizing Zulaykha had seen the bright and shining forehead of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then instead of cutting their hands they would have preferred to cut their hearts.

(Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 4, pp. 390)

ترا مسندِ ناز ہے عرشِ بریں ترا محرمِ راز ہے رُوحِ اَمیں

تُو ہی سرورِ ہر دو جہاں ہے شہا ترا مثل نہیں ہے خدا کی قسم

i.e. O my Prophet of dignity and glory (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Who can judge your glory and dignity as ‘Arsh-e-Mu’alla is the sitting place from your gracefulness

and manners, and Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is your friend and minister and you are the King of both the worlds; what should I further humbly say; my Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! There is none like you.

نعلینِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا خاندانِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

Dear Islamic brothers! How could we understand the unique glory of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? The blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَان, would see the brilliance of the beauty of Prophethood day and night, whether on a journey or not, they have described the unequalled beauty of the Noor of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the following words. Let’s listen to this.

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I have seen every beautiful thing, but I have never seen anyone more beautiful than the Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 2, pp. 7)

دیدارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا انوارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

Umm-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: كَانَ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) اَحۡسَنَ النَّاسِ وَجۡهًا وَ اَنۡوَرَهُمۡ لَوۡنًا i.e. Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most beautiful and brightly-coloured. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا further said: لَمۡ يَصِفۡهُ وَاصِفٌ قَطُّ اِلَّا شَبَّهَ وَجۡهَهُ بِالۡقَمَرِ لَيۡلَةِ الۡبَدۡرِ, i.e. Whoever has praised him, has used a simile of the full moon for him, وَكَانَ عَرۡقُهُ فِيۡ وَجۡهِهِ مِثۡلَ الۡلُؤۡلُؤِ, i.e. a drop of his perspiration on his radiant face seemed like a pearl.

(Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 115)

Similarly the companion of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Jabir Bin Samoorah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once I saw the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on a full moon night, I sometimes looked at the moon and sometimes towards the shining face of the Beloved Prophet

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I concluded that his blessed face was more beautiful than even the moon. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 24, Hadees 9)

یہ جو مَہر و مَہ پہ ہے اِطلاق آتا نُور کا بھیک تیرے نام کی ہے اِستِعارہ نُور کا

نُور کی خیرات لینے دوڑتے ہیں مَہر و ماہ اُٹھتی ہے کس شان سے گَردِ سُواری واہ واہ

رِفعتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا اِنعامِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely the hearts of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool will have rejoiced after listening to the grand sayings of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم about the beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In the abovementioned narrations, the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَان used a simile of the moon for his blessed shining face, though the light of the sun is brighter and stronger than the moon. The philosophy behind this is that the moon fills the whole earth with its luster and the beholders love it and it is possible to continuously look at it without any difficulty. On the other hand, the sun is too bright that it is difficult to see.

(Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 5, pp. 258)

خُورشید تھا کس زور پر کیا بڑھ کے چمکا تھا قمر

بے پردہ جب وہ رُخ ہوا یہ بھی نہیں وہ بھی نہیں

i.e. the sun rose with its full brightness and lit the whole world; the moon also shone with all its lustre and made the whole world a piece of Noor, but when the blessed face of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was unveiled, then the sun and moon covered their faces and bent their heads in acceptance before the beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Remember! The beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which the blessed companions compared with the moon, was not the complete beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If the complete beauty of the

Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had been revealed to the people, their eyes would not have had the power to see it.

‘Allamah Zurqaani has narrated from Imam Qurtubi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: ‘The complete beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not revealed to us; if his complete beauty had been revealed to us, our eyes would not have been able to see this graceful appearance. (Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 5, pp. 241)

اِک جھلک دیکھنے کی تاب نہیں عالمَ کو وہ اگر جلوہ کریں کون تماشائی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We cannot surely describe the beauty, attributes and excellences of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but only collect mercies and blessings by listening about his beautiful and blessed body parts to gain some blessings of the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The blessed face of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was a mirror of the beauty of our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the manifestation of Radiance, it was fleshy and somewhat round. Having seen the blessed face, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spoke out: وَجۡهُهُ لَيۡسَ بِوَجۡهِ كَذَّابٍ, his face is not the face of a liar, he then embraced Islam. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 362, Hadees 1907)

ترے خُلق کو حق نے عظیم کہا، تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہُوا ہے نہ ہوگا، شہا تِرے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Explanation of the couplet:

O Prophet of Mercy صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has declared your blessed manners great, and your birth brought thousands of blessings; no one had such

an outstanding and beautiful birth. My Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who else can be like you? Yes, yes! By the One Who has created the earth and the sky, ‘None is like you.’ (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 226)

میلادِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا دل شادِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed eyes of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were large and had kohl (Surmah) i.e. without kohl it seemed as if he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had put on kohl. Eyelashes were long. The whiteness of eyes contained thin red lines. In the previous books, this was also a sign of our Beloved Prophet’s Prophethood.

سُر مگیں آنکھیں حَریمِ حق کے وہ مُشکیں غَزال

ہے فضائے لامکان تک جن کا رَمنا نور کا

Explanation of the couplet:

Those eyes which can see in the night and day, behind and forward at the same time, filled with Kastoori like the eyes of a deer, with natural kohl, the beautiful eyes of my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم when lowered, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could see the lower world and when lifted, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could see across the throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The rotation of these blessed and luminous eyes into their own circles is also full of Noor because by virtue of their gestures we, the sinners, will attain salvation. (Sharh Kalam-e-Raza, pp. 721)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The blessed eyebrows of our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were long and thin and from the middle both were so close to each other that from a distance it seemed as if they had been connected to each other.

(Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 22, Hadees. 7)

جن کے سجدے کو محرابِ کعبہ جُھکی

ان بھوؤں کی لطافت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

When our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم decorated this world with his blessed birth, he fell into Sajdah and made Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for his Ummah and the Ka’bah Mu’azzamah bent towards him, offering its Salam to the delicacy of his luminous eyebrows. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1021)

گیسوئے مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا داڑھیِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed nose of the Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was beautiful, long and high in the middle on which Noor would shine. One who did not see carefully would think that the blessed nose of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was very high, though his nose was not high. The Noor that surrounded it was high. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 22, Hadees 7)

بینیِ پُرنُور پر رَخشاں ہے بُکَّہ نُور کا ہے لِواءُ الحَمد پر اڑتا پَھریرا نُور کا

Explanation of the couplet:

The Noor that used to shine on his blessed nose, seemed as if the لِوَاءُ الۡحَمۡد flag is waving, (on the Day of Judgment, the flag of Allah’s hymn which will be in the hand of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 710)

بِینیِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا پَسینہ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed forehead of the Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was wide and would shine like an oil lamp. Sayyiduna Hassaan Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

مَتٰي يَبۡدُ فِيۡ اللَّيۡلِ الۡبَهِيۡمِ جَبِيۡنُهُ

بَلَجَ مِثۡلَ مِصۡبَاحِ الدُّجَي الۡمُتَوَقِّد

i.e. in the darkness of the night, when the forehead of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم appeared, it would shine like a lamp that is lit in the darkness. (Sharh Zurqaani ‘Alal Mawahib, vol. 5, pp. 278)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

جس کے ماتھے شَفاعت کا سہرا رہا

اس جبینِ سَعادَت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

On the Day of Judgement, everyone will be in the state of selfishness, no one will be concerned about anyone else. Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will have the honour of interceding. Then why should we not offer millions of Salat and Salam of love to the blessed forehead of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because of him we have been blessed we will receive more blessings over there as well. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1020)

شفاعتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا پرچمِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

Both the blessed ears of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were perfect. Like his blessed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted him with excellent hearing. Therefore, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to the companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم: i.e.

What I see you cannot see and what I hear you cannot hear. I also hear the sound of the sky. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra lis-Suyuti, vol. 1, pp. 113)

دُور و نزدیک کے سننے والے وہ کان

کانِ لَعلِ کرامت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

The blessed ears of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are in fact the pearls of respect, diamonds of greatness and glory, and a mine of gems. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can hear distant and near sounds equally well. Being in the blessed body of his mother, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would hear the sounds of the pen that was used on Lauh-e-Mahfooz, then why should we not send millions of Salam to such blessed ears.

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1016)

سماعتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا نصرتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed mouth of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was broad, his blessed cheeks were smooth, blessed front teeth wide and sparkling. At the time of conversation, a Noor used to be seen coming out. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled, the walls would become bright. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra lis-Suyuti, vol. 1, pp. 127)

وہ دَہن جس کی ہر بات وَحیِ خدا

چشمہ عِلم و حِکمت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

The blessed mouth from which every word that comes out has the status of a revelation, millions of Salam be upon that spring of knowledge and wisdom.

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1027)

حِکمتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا رِفعتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed saliva of the blessed mouth of our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was a cure for the injured and sick. On the day of the conquest of Khyber, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his blessed saliva in the eyes of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was immediately cured, and it seemed as if there had never been any pain in his eyes.

Sayyiduna Rifaa’a Bin Raafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: On the day of Badr, an arrow pierced my eye. The Prophet of Mercy صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his blessed saliva into that eye and made Du’a. Thus, I did not have any pain and that eye fully recovered. (Zaad-ul-Ma’ad, vol. 3, pp. 144)

جس کے پانی سے شاداب جان و جِناں اس دَہن کی طَراوت پہ لاکھوں سلام

جس سے کھاری کنویں شِیرہِ جاں بنے اُس زُلالِ حَلاوت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

The sacred saliva of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a stream of knowledge and wisdom and the wetness of this saliva is the cause of peace and comfort and a freshness for the soul and the heart. I also send millions of Salam upon the blessed saliva of my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Similarly) the blessed saliva of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which turns the salty water of the well into fresh water and grants a new kind of freshness upon the soul, millions of Salam be upon the stream of that sweetness.

(Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1028)

اَوج و کمالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا جُود و نوالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most eloquent among creation; the conversation of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was so clear that the one sitting near him could memorize it.

(Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 134, Hadees 213)

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Ma’bad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was highly prestigious when quiet and as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spoke, his face would become illuminated and bright, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would speak in an extremely sweet voice and his conversation would be clear; it was neither useless nor absurd.

(Al-Istee’aab fi Ma’rifa-til-Ashaab, vol. 4, pp. 514)

وہ زبان جس کو سب کُن کی کُنجی کہیں اُس کی نافِذ حکومت پہ لاکھوں سلام

اس کی باتوں کی لذّت پہ بے حد دُرود اس کے خطبے کی ہیبت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Explanation of the couplet:

The sacred tongue of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the key of Allah’s will. Millions of Salam be upon the rule of the sacred tongue which does not only rule over this world but over both worlds. Millions of mercies be upon the pleasure of his loving and sweet conversation and millions of Salam be upon the glory and awe of the attractive speech of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 1028-1029)

اقوالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

افعالِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

His blessed arms and palms were fleshy. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I did not find any silky cloth softer than his blessed palms, neither did I find any

fragrance greater than the fragrance of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 489, Hadees 3561)

The person our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم shook hands with found fragrance in his hands throughout the day and the child upon whose head the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم placed his blessed hand would be more fragrant than other children. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 263)

جن کو سوئے آسماں پھیلا کے جل تھل بھر دیئے

صدقہ ان ہاتھوں کا پیارے ہم کو بھی درکار ہے

آقا کے بازو مرحبا مرحبا

آقا کی آنکھیں مرحبا مرحبا

His blessed feet were fleshy and beautiful. No one ever had such feet. They were so soft and clean that water did not stay on them, it instantly dripped off. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 276)

When the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would walk on stones, the stones became soft so that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could pass over them with ease and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would walk on the sand, it did not have the impressions of his blessed feet. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 277)

گورے گورے پاؤں چمکا دو خُدا کے واسطے

نور کا تڑکا ہو پیارے گور کی شب تار ہے

Explanation of the couplet:

O my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! For Allah’s sake, placing your white and luminous feet in my grave turn the dark night of my grave into a morning

of Noor! So that my fear could be removed and I could answer the questions of Nakeerayn easily. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 514)

انوارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا گلزارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

The blessed hair of his blessed head was neither very curly nor very straight but in between both. His blessed beard was thick and full; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would comb his beard and look into a mirror and before sleeping, he would apply kohl around his blessed eyes thrice. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would get his blessed moustache trimmed and would say that: Oppose the idolaters, that is to say, lengthen your beard and shorthen your moustache.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 487, Hadees 4421)

ہم سیہ کاروں پہ یا ربّ تپشِ مَحشر میں

سایہ افگن ہوں تیرے پیارے کے پیارے گیسو

Explanation of the couplet:

O my Lord! Bless me with the shadow of the blessed hair of Your Beloved in the searing heat of the Day of Judgement so that I could be safe from the heat of the scorching sun. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 344)

انوارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا گلزارِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen some couplets about the blessed appearance of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned on page 563 of the 873-page book named ‘ Seerat-e-Mustafa ’ published by Maktab tul Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

روحِ حق کا میں سراپا کیا لکھوں؟ حلیہِ نُورِ خدا میں کیا لکھوں؟

پَر جمالِ رحمۃٌ لِّلعٰلَمِیں جلوہ گر ہوگا مکانِ قبر میں

اس لئے ہے آ گیا مجھ کو خیال مختصر لکھ دوں جمالِ بے مثال

تا کہ یاروں کو مرے پہچان ہو اور اس کی یاد بھی آسان ہو

تھا میانہ قد و اَوسَط پاک تَن پر سپید و سُرخ تھا رنگِ بدن

چاند کے ٹکڑے تھے اعضا آپ کے تھے حسین و گول سانچے میں ڈھلے

تھی جبیں رَوشن کُشادہ آپ کی چاند میں داغ، وہ بے داغ تھی

دونوں ابرو تھیں مثالِ دو ہلال اور دونوں کو ہوا تھا اِتّصال

اِتّصالِ دو مَہِ "عیدین" تھا یا کہ ادنٰی قُرب تھا "قَوسَین" کا

تھیں بڑی آنکھیں حَسِین و سُر مگیں دیکھ کر قربان تھیں سب حورِ عِیں

کان دونوں خُوب صورت اَرجمند ساتھ خُوبی کے دَہَن بینی بُلند

صاف آئینہ تھا چہرہ آپ کا صُورت اپنی اُس میں ہر اِک دیکھتا

تابہ سِینہ ریشِ مَحبُوبِ اِلٰہ خُوب تھی گنجان مُو رنگ سیاہ

میں کہوں پہچان عمدہ آپ کی دونوں عالَم میں نہیں ایسا کوئی

عظمتِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

آمدِ مصطفٰی مرحبا مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how beautiful our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was that none has ever been born nor will anyone be born like him. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the centre of brightness from head to toe; his entire blessed body was such a collection of beauty and excellence that its example is not found. If we ponder, is there anyone who deserves more love than this Beloved? Definitely not! People, in particular, those who see the short-lived beauty of this mortal world fall prey

to its mundane love and start performing deeds contrary to the Shar’iah, they destroy their worldly life and the Hereafter; for them this is a matter to ponder over:

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: These days, there is a rapidly growing trend of romantic love. The main cause of this is that most Muslims do not have necessary Islamic knowledge and are far away from a religious environment. This has also caused a flood of sins everywhere. Watching love stories and dramas on TV, VCR and the internet etc., reading novels, monthly magazines, digests, romantic fictions and exaggeratedly love-related news published in newspapers, attending coeducational classes at colleges and universities and freely meeting and talking to non-Ma h ram relatives are the causes of love among the youth of today.

At first, love is one-sided but the other partner when informed about it also sometimes falls in love, leading to a severe storm of sins. These lovers then engage in shameless conversations over phone and even meet with each other, they exchange love letters and gifts, and secretly promise to marry each other. If their family members cause any obstruction, they sometimes elope, and the news of their elopement is published in papers, causing disgrace for their families. At times, they get married by a court, but sometimes they go beyond all moral bounds even without marriage, and then the corpses of illegitimate babies of such cruel unmarried couples are found lying in a garbage. Furthermore, if they are unable to elope, then they commit suicide. This type of news is often published in newspapers. (Nayki ki Da’wat, pp. 40)

­­­

It is Haraam for men to wear a gold ring. It is permissible for men to only wear a ring allowed for men i.e. with only one gem/stone. It is permissible to wear a silver ring that weighs less than 4.5 Masha (i.e. 4 grams and 374 mg) and that has only one gem. Similarly, it is not permissible for men to wear more than one (permissible) ring or (one or more than one) gem-less ring because in reality, a gem-less ring is not considered as a ring. Women can wear rings

without gems/stones. Women can wear as many silver and gold rings as they like whether with or without a gem. For them, there is no limit on the weight of the silver and gold and on the number of gems. It is Haraam to have a (minor) boy wear jewellery made of gold and silver, and the one having the minor doing so will be a sinner. (Al-Fatawa Al-Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 335)

If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed wealth upon someone, it is permitted by Shari’ah to use good and expensive clothes for both men and women provided that it is not worn out of pride, but rather it must be worn to express the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

To apply kohl is a wonderful Sunnah of our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Before the Prophet of Mercy صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would sleep, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would apply kohl to his blessed eyes, therefore acting upon this Sunnah, we too should apply kohl to our eyes. By performing this act we will gain the reward of applying kohl, in addition to attaining its worldly benefits. Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would put oil onto his blessed head and beard, comb them and part his blessed hair in the center of his head. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever has hair, he should take regard of it. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, p. 103, Hadees 4163) i.e. he should wash, oil and comb it.

­­­

§ Piercing the nose and ears is permissible for girls.

§ Some people pierce the ears of boys and make them wear earrings etc., which is impermissible. I.e., it is also impermissible for boys to wear earrings or have their ears pierced.

§ It is permissible for women to apply Mehndi (henna) on their hands or feet; it is impermissible to apply Mehndi (henna) on the hands and feet of young boys, there is no harm in applying Mehndi (henna) on the hands and feet of little girls.

§ Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: An effeminate man (Mukhannas) who had dyed his hands and feet with henna was brought to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: What is the matter with this man? He was told, ‘Ya Rasoolallah! He imitates the appearance of women.’ So he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم issued an order regarding him and he was exiled to Naqee’. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 368, Hadees 4928)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen that an effeminate man imitated women and dyed his hands and feet with henna, upon that, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم got him exiled. Through this blessed Hadees, those Islamic brothers who dye their hands or fingers on the occasion of wedding and celebration etc. should take a lesson. Remember that as it is impermissible for men to imitate women, similarly, women are also prohibited to imitate men as Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: The Blessed and Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cursed men who appear like women and make their appearances like them and women who make their appearances like men.

§ Do not wear clothing with images of humans and animals; neither put stickers that have human or animal images nor hang them at home.

§ Do not dress your children in clothes that have pictures of animals or humans.

§ A woman should adorn herself for her husband within the confines of her home, she should not go out of her house whilst adorned as the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Woman is something to be concealed, for when she goes out, Satan looks at her.

§ Moving around without covering the head surely against the Sunnah, so Islamic brothers should wear an ‘Imamah (Islamic turban) on their head as this is a sweet Sunnah of the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! There are 96 departments of Dawat-e-Islami working for the propagation of Sunnah and calling towards righteousness. ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-

Sunnat’ is also one of them, it is an important department of Dawat-e-Islami. On page 21 of the 102-page book ‘Ilm-o-Hikmat kay 125 Madani Phool’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: An Islamic brother, associated with a Deeni Madrasah told me, ‘If any poorly educated person turns up in our seminary and inquires about any ruling then he is reprimanded sometimes over his way of describing or way of writing, for example, they are said: Where did you receive your education from! You have no manners of writing a question! etc., thus these people lose trust, feel dissatisfied and are uncared for.’

When Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه became aware of this, he felt hurt and said, ‘We shall open up 12 Dar-ul-Ifta اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ and the dream of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه came true on the 15 Sha’ban 1421 when Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat began in Jami’ Masjid, Kanz-ul-Iman, Baabri Chowk Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, under the authority of Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, up to now, 4 Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are working in Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, besides that, Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are also serving the grieved Ummah of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Zamzam Nagar (Hyderabad), Sardarabad (Faisalabad), Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore), Rawalpindi and Gulzar-e-Tayyibah (Sargodha). Apart from this, the Islamic brothers of ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Online’, an online department, working under ‘Majlis Ifta’, are carrying out this responsibility with great care on a global scale by immediately responding to questions via phone & internet, from Muslims throughout the world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Islamic brothers connected to this department answer hundreds of questions daily. Questions can also be asked through this email (darulifta@Dawat-e-Islami.net) from anywhere in the world. People from all over the world can contact this department on the following numbers for immediately seeking Shar’i guidance.

F 0300-0220113 – 03000220112

F 0300-0220115 – 03000220114

People can contact us daily on these numbers from 10am to 4pm (Pakistan standard time) (excluding Sundays).

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have heard about the beauty of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not created anyone more beautiful than the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even the shadow of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not made because for such a unique personality there should be such uniqueness. To what extent Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be judged by this, therefore if we want to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e- Islami, one will get into the habit of performing good deeds abundantly, hating sins, being steadfast on the Sunnah and worshiping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ more and more, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also actively participate in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs in order to perform good deeds, be safe from sins, and protect others from sins and to spread the call to righteousness. The Madani activity of the weekly Madani Muzakarah is one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. To convey the Madani pearls of wisdom to people, to train them, and to impart Islamic knowledge to them were the practices of our pious saints. There are a large number of pious saints who from time to time would manage to impart Islamic knowledge to people in different manners in order to spread Islamic knowledge and provide guidance to them. The benefit of Islamic scholars, the company of perfect saints, the effect of their speeches and the beauty of their characters have become a source of guidance for thousands of people.

A preacher of Dawat-e-Islami from Khanpur (Punjab, Pakistan) has stated: ‘A Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah came to our city from Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi .

Along with the participants of the Madani Qafilah, I was also privileged to take part in the area visit to call people towards righteousness. Gathering people outside a tailor shop we presented the ‘call to righteousness.’ When the speech ended, a young worker from the shop said, ‘I am a non-Muslim. Your ‘call to righteousness’ has made a profound impact on my heart. Please make me a Muslim.’ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he then embraced Islam.

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. When leaving the home, recite this Du’a:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَـوَ کَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُـوَّ ۃَ اِلَّا بِاللّٰہِ

Translation: With the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is neither power nor strength without Him.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of reciting this Du’a’, the person who recited it will remain on the right path and will be safe from calamities besides being blessed with Divine help.

2. Du’a before entering the home:

اَللّٰھُمَّ ا ِ نِّیۤ اَسْأَ لُكَ خَیْرَ الْمَوْلَجِ وَ خَیْرَ الْمَخْرَ جِ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ لَجْنَا وَ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ خَرَجْنَا وَ عَلَی اللّٰہِ رَ بِّنَا تَوَکَّلْنَا

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I ask You for the goodness of coming and exiting. We entered (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and exited (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we put our trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (ibid, Hadees 5096)

After reciting this Du’a, make Salaam to the household, and present Salaam to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْه وَاٰله وَسَلَّم . Then recite Surah Al-Ikhlas. There will be blessings in your sustenance and the house will be protected from disputes, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Make Salaam to the Mahram and Mahrimaat (e.g. the mother, the father, the brother, the sister, children and the wife etc.)

2. If anyone enters the home without mentioning the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, e.g. without saying بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ, Satan also enters with him.

3. If one enters a house where no one is present (even one’s own home) he should say:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْنَا وَ عَلٰی عِبَادِ اللّٰہِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ

Translation: Salaam be upon us and the righteous bondmen of Allah.

The angels will reply to this Salaam. (Radd-ul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 682) One can also say the following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ

Translation: O Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Salaam be upon you.

The sacred and blessed soul of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is present in the homes of Muslims.

(Sharh Ash-Shifa lil-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 118)

4. Before you enter someone’s home, say ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ! May I come in? ’

1. If permission for entry is not given, return happily without getting annoyed. Perhaps they may not have given permission due to some compulsion.

2. When someone knocks on your door, it is a Sunnah to ask who it is. The person who knocked should tell his name, for example, Muhammad Ilyas. Instead of telling the name, saying such things as Madinah! ‘It’s me’, ‘open the door ’ etc. is not a Sunnah.

3. After you have mentioned your name, stand at a side so that you do not look inside the house as soon as the door opens.

4. It is prohibited to glance into someone’s home. Some houses are higher than the other adjoining ones. Therefore, those living in higher houses should take great care when looking out from the balcony or window of their house.

5. When you go to someone’s home, do not unnecessarily criticize their home arrangements, as this could be hurtful to them.

6. When leaving, make Du’a for the household, thank them, make Salam, and gift them with a Sunnah-Inspiring booklet, if possible.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

