Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

From Illness to Death!

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi ﷺ

Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘If I (give up all my Awraad and Wazaaif [1] and) devote all of my time reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi.’ Upon this, the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘This will be sufficient to remove your worries and your sins will be forgiven.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 207, Hadees 2465)

کیوں کہوں بے کس ہوں میں، کیوں کہوں بے بس ہوں میں

تم ہو میں تم پہ فِدا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

Beloved Rasool ﷺ inquired after him

Sayyiduna Haseen Bin Wahwah [ وَحوَح ] Ansari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyiduna Talhah Bin Bara رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ fell ill, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to inquire after him, though it was a cold winter and the sky was cloudy. As he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was about to go back he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to the family members of Sayyiduna Talhah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: I think these are the last moments of his life. Inform me so that I can lead his funeral Salah; be quick to prepare him for the burial. As the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Mahallah Bani Saalim, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away. Sayyiduna Talhah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made a will to his family members as the night began: When I die, bury me and do not call the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I fear that non-Muslims might cause trouble to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because of me. His family members did the same.

In the morning, when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was informed, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to his blessed grave. Blessed companions made a row, and then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his blessed hands and made Du’a: O Allah Pak! May Talhah meet You in the state that he is smiling! (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 28, pp. 4, Hadees 3554)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed! Despite very cold weather our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to inquire after his beloved companion Sayyiduna Talhah Bin Bara رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to his grave and made Du’a of forgiveness for him. But alas, at present, we have become negligent even in performing this beautiful Sunnah. Being occupied in gaining worldly wealth we have forgot that Muslims are brother to one another; we have forgot that real Muslims help one another in trouble; we have also forgot that a real Muslim helps his ill, poor and afflicted Muslim brother. Today we are in such a terrible condition that love between real brothers and sisters is also decreasing. For example, if one brother is at deathbed, his other brother does not go to meet him on the basis of old disputes and quarrels. In the past, if two people quarrel due to any reason, the third one used to make them understand with gentleness

and reconcile them. But unfortunately in this age of social media, if two people are quarrelling, the third one keeps on making video. If somebody encounters an accident, nobody rushes him to hospital. Rather those having a negative mind-set try to steal the victim’s belongings e.g. mobile, cash, jewellery. Due to our business activities we have no time to go to anyone to inquire after her, though going to a patient to inquire after her at her home, heartens her, sit beside her for her comfort, persuade her to make repentance by presenting her call towards righteousness and make Du’a for her health all bring about reward.

تُو سارے مریضوں کو الله شفا دیدے اچھا ہے فقط وہ جو بیمارِ مدینہ ہے

افسوس مرض بڑھتا جاتا ہے گناہوں کا دے دیجے شفا عرض اے سرکار مدینہ ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Teaching us the good manners, Islam has commanded us to inquire after the patient in order to comfort and console her. Islam has also taught us its manners. Visiting a patient to inquire after her does not lessen her suffering, but it surely gives her pleasure. Thus not only should we go to inquire after our relatives, but we should also go to inquire after other patient Islamic sisters in the hospitals.

Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about inquiring after a patient and also make intention to act upon them sincerely.

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A proclaimer says to the person, who inquires after a patient or goes to meet his Islamic brother for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by addressing: Be happy because this walk of yours is blessed and you have made your abode in Paradise. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 405, Hadees 2015)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant a shadow through 75,000 angels, on the one who inquires after a patient and one virtue will be written for each step (foot)

1. he lifts, and for placing each step (foot) one sin of his will be removed, and one rank will be elevated. When he sits beside the patient, mercy will cover him and mercy will continue to cover him until he returns to his home. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 163, Raqm 13)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how excellent is to visit an Islamic sister to inquire after her health! An angel gives the good news to the fortunate person of her abode in Paradise, who inquires after a patient. 75,000 angels make shadow of mercy on the one who inquires after a patient. The sins of the one who inquires after a patient are forgiven upon her every step. Divine Mercy is showered upon the one who inquires after a patient. Hence whenever you go to inquire after a Mahram patient, adopt extremely affectionate tone with cheerfulness to ask about her health and also make Du’a for her recovery.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would go to inquire after a patient, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say: ‘ لَا بَأۡسَ طَهُوۡرٌ اِنۡ شَآءَ اللّٰه ’ i.e. No harm in it, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this disease will purify of sins . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 505, Hadees 3616)

یہ تِرا جسم جو بیمار ہے تشویش نہ کر یہ مرض تیرے گناہوں کو مٹا جاتا ہے

اصل آفت تو ہے ناراضی ربِّ اکبر اس کو کیوں بھول کے بر باد ہوا جاتا ہے

Nowadays, it has also been noticed that people, who come to inquire become a source of worry and heartrending for the patient, instead of comforting her. Sometimes many people reach together to inquire after the patient and stand around her asking different types of questions. They ask for details of the disease unnecessarily. Sometimes, they ask such questions that the patient in reply would perhaps tell a lie. That’s right! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned it in his booklet ‘ Beemar Aabid ’ [Ailing Worshipper]. Let’s listen to it attentively so that if we act upon the great Sunnah of inquiring after a patient, we do not cause her to indulge in the evil of telling a lie. The patient should also adhere to speaking truth instead of lie. Sometimes, when the patient is asked: How are you? Then in spite of not

being well, she replies: 1) I am well. 2) I am very well. 3) I am absolutely well. 4) My health is first class. 5) My health is A-one. 6) No trouble at all. 7) I am enjoying. 8) I don’t even have a minute problem. 9) I am absolutely ok. These types of answers in this occasion are lies.

Sometimes, despite having no knowledge in Medicines, they (visitors) suggest the patient to use different types of treatment and remedies, they ask useless questions and by the noise of children disgust the patient, though it is very necessary to take care of patient’s medical condition at the time of inquiring after her. If we feel that our presence is causing trouble to the patient, we should leave soon.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَفْضَلُ الْعِیَادَۃِ سُرْعَۃُ الْقِیَام ’ The best (way of) inquiring after someone is to get up soon.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 542, Hadees 9221)

So whenever you have to go to a patient, treat her well. Speak such things which encourage her and her hope of Divine mercy can grow. Tell the patient the virtues of being patient and thankful in the state of being ill so that she has patience upon the trial, which comes from her Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and can succeed in earning reward.

To have patience on any trouble or illness, have great virtues. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it.

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Whoever faces a trouble in his wealth or health and conceals it and did not disclose it to people, it is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to forgive him.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 11, pp. 148, Hadees 11438)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Whatever trouble a Muslim faces due to illness, worry, sadness, torture and grief, even if a thorn pricks him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes this [trouble] an atonement [Kaffarah] for that person’s sins. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 3, Hadees 5641)

چشم کرم ہو ایسی کہ مِٹ جائے ہر خطا کوئی گناہ مجھ سے نہ شیطاں کرا سکے

ہے صبر تو خزانۂ فردوس بھائیو! عاشق کے لَب پہ شکوہ کبھی بھی نہ آسکے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Protection from deadly diseases

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become obvious that it is a great act of reward to be patient all through illness. There are many pieces of good news for an ill person. Due to an illness, her sins are forgiven, even if a thorn pricks her foot; it also becomes atonement from her sins. Remember! In other religions of the world, illness is only considered to be a disaster and trouble, whereas Islam is the beautiful religion which not only declares health to be a blessing, but it also interprets illnesses and troubles as mercy because illnesses not only are the source of bringing forgiveness from sins, but some minor illnesses also give protection from deadly diseases.

A great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A common cold is not a disease, but rather a cure for mental diseases. It prevents many other diseases. One who suffers from a cold does not go mad or insane. One who has ever suffered from an itch, does not suffer from leprosy. There are many Divine pearls of wisdom behind cold and itching.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 395)

Talking about the advantages of illnesses, Mufti Jalaluddin Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: An illness apparently causes a trouble or pain, but in fact, it is a great blessing that provides a true Muslim with a great deal of eternal relief and comfort. This apparent illness is a very effective cure for spiritual diseases on the condition that a person should be a Muslim and remain patient and thankful in the face of even the most dangerous diseases. If she wails and does not have patience, she will not get any real benefit from the illness, i.e. she will be deprived of the reward. (Anwaar-ul-Hadees, pp. 197)

Fruit of patience is sweet

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! When a person suffers from a disease or trouble, it does not go away by showing impatience, crying and complaining and telling to everyone, but rather she loses the reward which she can easily obtain by having patience. Hence we should not get impatient at all through illness and make our mind that a person never remains in the same condition for ever. If a person falls ill, she also recovers quickly. If she experiences a grief, she also gets many joys after it. After experiencing poverty she also experiences prosperity. However, a Muslim, in every condition, should spend her life with patience and gratitude as per the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s beseech in the blessed Divine court:

وہ بچارے کہ بیمار ہیں جو جنّ و جادو سے بیزار ہیں جو

اپنی رحمت سے ان کو شفا کی میرے مولٰی تُو خیرات دیدے

وہ کہ آفات میں مبتلا ہیں جو گرفتارِ رَنج و بَلا ہیں

فضل سے ان کو صبر و رِضا کی میرے مولٰی تُو خیرات دیدے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What should be done at the time of agonies of death?

Dear Islamic sisters! Sometimes we have to go to inquire after the patient who is in her last hour and suffering from the agonies of death. It seems as if she would die very soon. At that time, instead of crying we should be patient and make this mind: Whoever has come into this world will also have to leave this world one day. We will have to die like her one day and will have to pass through the next stages after death.

Remember! Every moment of the dying person who is suffering from the agonies of death reminds us of death, but we have forgotten our death and are feeling satisfied and seem to be waiting for the time when we will repent of our sins and start performing virtuous deeds after giving up bad deeds. Even funerals which are being carried every day do not wake us up from our heedlessness.

Advising a young man Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin ‘Ammar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: O young man! May your youth not deceive you; there were many such young men who delayed in repentance and had long hopes, kept on saying after forgetting death: We will repent tomorrow, we will repent the day after tomorrow even to the extent that the Angel of death عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came in this state of heedlessness and they have gone to their graves.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 34)

Remember! The time of agonies of death is very hard. The one who passes through this state can feel its severities. If a deceased comes out of her grave and tells the people of this world the state of the pain of death, the peace and comfort of their life would get destroyed. Mentioning the severities of death, Sayyiduna Shaddad Bin Aws رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: For a believer, there is nothing more dreadful than death in this world and the Hereafter as its pain is severe than being cut open by saws, cut by scissors and boiled in pots. If a deceased comes out of his grave and tells people about death, people could not obtain any benefit from life, nor could they sleep peacefully.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 209)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how bitter the taste of death is, which every person has to experience unwillingly! So delicate is the time of agonies of death in which on one hand, there are the troubles of death, on the other hand, the attacks of accursed Satan. Satan uses different types of tricks in order to deprive a person of her faith at the time of her death. He even impersonates parents and attacks the faith of some Muslims and tries to prove non-Muslims right.

At that time, the person who is greatly blessed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ succeeds in protecting her faith from Satan. Under these conditions, Islam has commanded us to do good to a Muslim. What things should be paid special attention to, just right before and after the soul has been seized? Let’s listen to some important Madani pearls about them. If we act upon these Madani pearls, they will not only benefit us, but they will also be very useful for the deceased, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ When the signs of death are clearly evident on the patient, turn her towards her right side; and also turn her face towards the Qiblah as this is a Sunnah (if the patient feels pain while doing this, do not do it).

§ Make ‘Talqeen’ when a person is dying, that is, recite loudly beside her ‘ اَشْھَدُ اَن لَّا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ وَ اَشْھَدُ اَنَّ مُحَمَّدًا رَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہ ’, but do not ask her to recite.

§ If she has recited Kalimah, stop making ‘Talqeen’. If she speaks something after reciting Kalimah, then make ‘Talqeen’ again as her last words should be ‘ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہ ’.

§ ‘Talqeen’ should be made by a pious person because the presence of pious and ascetic people is very good. At that time, Surah Yaseen should be recited near the patient and it is Mustahab to have fragrance over there.

§ Try your best not to have any picture or a dog in the house. Remove them immediately if these things are found because the angels of mercy do not visit the place where these things are present.

§ When a person passes away, take a broad strip of cloth, pass it under the lower jaw, bring it on to the head and tie it to keep the jaws together. Close the eyes and straighten fingers, arms and legs. This should be done by any family member of the deceased such as mother or daughter, who can be gentler when doing this. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 807, 808; summarized)

Excellence of reciting Kalimah at the time of death

Dear Islamic sisters! If the occasion arises when you find any of your relatives, beloved ones, friends or Muslims in such a state, do not become negligent in acting upon these above-mentioned Madani pearls because our little attention can bring about salvation and forgiveness for the dying person, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . ‘Talqeen’ of Kalimah Tayyibah must especially be made to the dying person as the good news of Paradise has been stated in a blessed Hadees for the one who recites Kalimah at the time of death. Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

stated, ‘ مَنْ کَانَ آخِرُ کَلَامِہِ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللہ دَخَلَ الْجَنَّۃَ ’ ‘The one whose last words are ‘ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ ’ will enter Jannah’. (Abu Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 255, Hadees 3116)

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘Though one recited Kalimah throughout his life, he must recite Kalimah at the time of death because he will be forgiven by its blessing’. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 446)

It has become obvious that when a person’s last hour arrives, the people present around her should recite Kalimah Tayyibah, do the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recite the Holy Quran, so that she may also remember to recite Kalimah.

The people who succeed in reciting Kalimah Tayyibah despite going through the agonies of death and depart this life in the same state are very lucky.

Remember. In spite of doing Talqeen, if a dying person did not recite Kalimah, we could not say that ‘she did not die in the state of faith’.

The enviable death of the Beloved of Attar

Haji Muhammad Mushtaq Attari, late Nigran of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami, had been ill for some time and passed away of the same illness. The Islamic brothers, who were with him at his death bed, have said: At that night, when the condition of Haji Muhammad Mushtaq Attari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started to get worse he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Turn me towards Qiblah. As per his order he was turned towards Qiblah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه closed his eyes and started reciting Salat and Salam and Kalimah Tayyibah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained busy doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for a long time in the same way. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started reciting Kalimah Tayyibah ‘ لَآاِلٰہَ اِلَّااللّٰہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہ ’ loudly. While reciting Kalimah Tayyibah loudly he went through agonies of death and after some time departed this life.

خُدایا بُرے خاتمے سے بچانا

پڑھوں کلمہ جب نکلے دَم یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to have the attributes like avoiding sins, acting upon Sunnahs regularly and heartening Islamic sisters, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is to attend the ‘weekly Sunnah- inspiring Ijtima’. Fix any day of the week and arrange weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ at Zayli Halqah, Halqah or city level with proper veiling. Day and time should be fixed. Attendance target: At least 12 Islamic sisters per Zayli Halqah (duration: maximum 2 hours). Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ should be conducted in accordance with the Madani pearls. Islamic sisters are not allowed to use Mic, Megaphone, CD player and Echo sound etc. This Madani activity has countless worldly and Hereafter benefits.

§ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ the Sunnah of meeting and saying Salam to Islamic sisters is promoted.

§ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ precious Madani pearls full of Islamic knowledge are conveyed to Muslim Ummah.

§ Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ is very helpful in making non-Salah-offering people Salah-offering.

§ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is publicized and gets a good reputation.

§ The Du’as which are made in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat are answered. In addition, speeches are made about the blessed life of blessed companions and pious saints.

§ Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه makes Du’a-e-Madinah like this for the fortunate devotees of Rasool who attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat:

جو پابند ہے اجتماعات کا بھی

میں دیتا ہوں اس کو دعائے مدینہ

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ for persuasion and make intention to attend the Ijtima’ regularly.

I found right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat . The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the fast of Ramadan. In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Lamentation on the deceased

Dear Islamic sisters! If somebody dies, so on this occasion, many acts contrary to Shari’ah are committed sometimes. One of them is lamentation [ نَوحَہ ], i.e. to weep loudly by exaggerating the attributes of the deceased. It is also called wail [ بَین ]. There is a consensus that it is Haraam. Similarly, bewailing, crying loudly saying ‘Oh! Woe’, tearing the front upper part [of the shirt etc.], scratching face, untying [the braid of] hair, putting dust on the head, beating chest, beating thighs are all acts of ignorance and are Haraam. It is prohibited to weep with a loud voice; however, there is no prohibition if the sound does not get loud. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 854, 855)

Sometimes while weeping over the death of a person, people become extremely impatient and start making complaints to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and by committing such acts they utter statement of un-belief which destroys their faith.

Mourning more than three days

On the occasion of someone’s death, one of the non-Shar’i acts is to mourn for more than three days, which is Haraam. Before the advent of Islam in Arab, a widow used to live in a bad house, wear a bad dress and live separately from entire family members for a year after the death of her husband. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 151) Thus, she used to mourn for a year, but after the advent of Islam, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم fixed the mourning period to three days upon the death of other relatives except the husband [1], whereas the wife will observe the period of ‘Iddat’ at the death of her husband for four months and ten days. However, it is permissible for a woman to observe mourning for three days upon the death of any of her close relatives (other than husband); more than this is not permitted. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 5, pp. 223)

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ended this practice of pre-Islamic era of ignorance, blessed Sahabiyyat رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُـنَّ started acting upon the blessed saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this wrong tradition came to an end.

When the brother of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا (daughter of Jahsh) passed away, she got the fragrance brought to her on the fourth day and applied and said: I did not need the fragrance, but I heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying on the blessed pulpit, ‘It is not permissible for any Muslim woman to observe mourning for more than three days except for her husband that is four months and ten days.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 422, Hadees 2299)

Similarly, when the father (Sayyiduna Abu Sufyan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) of Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Habibah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا applied fragrance to her cheeks and said, ‘I did not need it, I did it only in obedience to the blessed command of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 422, Hadees 2299)

Keeping in mortuary (cold storage)

On someone’s death, one of the practice of non-Shar’i acts that is becoming common is to wait for the sons etc., of the deceased who are out of the city or country by thinking that how the funeral will be held if he does not attend it. Though, at that time, other sons, daughters, sisters and brothers are all around the deceased. The son, who is coming from other city or country, gets very late due to getting no leaves or delay of transport etc. Under these conditions, the torture that is inflicted upon the poor deceased is not hidden from anyone.

This method is adopted to preserve the dead body of the helpless deceased from decomposition. The dead body is kept in a morgue having cold storage in which it freezes, causing severe pain to the deceased. Just ponder, when he was alive and had any trouble, all the family members would become restless. Due to his illness, they would spend the whole night sitting at his head side awake. If a thorn would prick him, they would feel his pain, but after his death all his love is forgotten and the family members agree to keep this miserable person (his dead body) in a cold storage morgue.

Causing trouble to the deceased at the time of Ghusl

Similarly, at the time of giving Ghusl, due to lack of knowledge or having unnecessary fear of the dead body no family member of the deceased gets ready to give Ghusl. Then the person who does not know about Sunnahs and manners gets ready and gives Ghusl to the deceased very harshly, though while giving Ghusl to the deceased one should take great precautions and be very gentle. Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated that the deceased knows everything; he even says to Ghassaal [Ghusl-giving person], ‘I make you swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, be gentle with me in Ghusl.’

(Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 95)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! As a matter of fact, we ourselves should give Ghusl and shroud the deceased of our household, but regretfully, we have only paid attention to make our future better and got higher worldly education, hence deprived ourselves of Islamic knowledge.

Dear Islamic sisters, come to senses! Today we have time; we should gain not only Islamic knowledge ourselves, but should also get our children to learn Islamic rulings. Besides persuading them to perform virtuous deeds we should also persuade them to hate sins. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessings we will gain plenty of knowledge. If our children become righteous, they will become a treasure of continuous reward for us after our death اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Introduction to book!

Dear Islamic sisters! Buy today the book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah namely, ‘ Tajheez-o-Takfeen ka Tareeqah ’, in order to get information about the rulings on funeral rites. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains lot of information from inquiring after a patient and agonies of death to funeral rites. Buy this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah today. Not only study it yourself, but also persuade other Islamic sisters to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Introduction to Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen

In addition, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Dawat-e-Islami has 104 departments. One of them is Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen. The purpose of this Majlis is to make Muslims aware of important Shar’i rulings on Ghusl and shrouding, train the Islamic brothers of Majlis from time to time, carry out all funeral and burial rites of dead bodies of Muslims through trained Islamic brothers and also to persuade the relatives of the deceased to have patience. As such, in case of anybody’s death please contact the concerned Islamic brother of Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen living in your area for the Ghusl and shrouding of the deceased.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How should grave be?

Dear Islamic sisters! Due to a lack of Islamic knowledge nowadays, graves are also dug contrary to Sunnah for burying the deceased. In graveyards, after digging one or one and a half feet, walls consisting of blocks are built to make the grave and thus most part of the grave remains above the level of the earth. This method is wrong.

§ The Sunnah is to dig the grave deep. The length of the grave should be equal to the height of the deceased and the width half of her height. The depth of the grave should be of half of the height of the deceased. It is better if the depth is also equal to the height of the deceased. The moderate level is that the depth should be up to the chest. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 164)

§ There are two types of grave: (1) Lahad: The method to prepare it is to first dig a grave and then dig a recess in it towards the Qiblah in the wall which is sufficient to place the deceased easily.

(2) Box: It is a common practice nowadays. Lahad is Sunnah. If the ground is suitable for it, do it, but if the ground is soft, there is no harm in the box. (Al-Fatawa Al-Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 165)

§ It is impermissible to lay the mat or any such thing inside the grave as it is only a waste of money without any reason. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 164)

§ It is Makruh to bury a dead body in a wooden coffin. However if needed, such as the ground is very wet; there is no harm in it.

(Al-Fatawa Al-Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 166; Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 165)

§ If the dead body is buried keeping in a coffin, it is Sunnah to spread soil in it and place unbaked bricks on the right and left and plaster the walls with mud so that the interior of it can become like Lahad. An iron coffin is Makruh and if the ground of grave is wet, spreading the soil is Sunnah. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 165)

§ It is Makruh to use red [baked] bricks in the part of the grave that is near the dead body as brick is baked by fire. (Al-Fatawa Al-Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 166)

§ If possible, make Dam (blow) on the inner slabs after reciting Surah Yaseen, Surah Al-Mulk and Durood-e-Taj. (Madani Wasiyyat Naamah, pp. 4)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessings of pious people’s closeness

Dear Islamic sisters! If possible bury your deceased in close proximity to pious people as dead people are also blessed by their blessings. They stay safe from Divine torment and receive Divine mercy continuously. It has also been persuaded in blessed Hadees. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ﴿ اَدۡفِنُوۡا مَوۡتَاكُمۡ وَسۡطَ قَوۡمِ الصّٰلِحِيۡن ﴾: Bury your dead ones amongst the pious.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 254, Hadees 42364)

Ala Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A deceased should be buried near righteous people as he gets the blessing of their closeness. If مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he even deserves torment, they intercede on his behalf. The mercy that descends upon them also surrounds him. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 385)

So if space is easily found in close proximity to the righteous bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, bury your dead ones there. When pious saints are blessed with so much greatness and excellence that the one who is buried in close proximity to them stays safe from Divine torment, so then what will be the status of the ones who are in close proximity to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم i.e. the glory and greatness of the Muslims buried in Jannat-ul-Baqi’. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the martyrdom with faith and peace in Madinah Tayyibah, burial in Jannat-ul-Baqi’ and a place somewhere near His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

ایمان پہ دے موت مدینے کی گلی میں مدفن مرا محبوب کے قدموں میں بنادے

الله کرم اتنا گنہ گار پہ فرما جنّت میں پڑوسی مرے آقا کا بنادے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Benefit the deceased by Isal-e-Sawab

Dear Islamic sisters! After the burial of the deceased comes the stage of Du’a of forgiveness and Isal-e-Sawab that will continue until the Judgement Day. The deceased always looks forward to the Isal-e-Sawab of her family members because as long as she had been alive, her parents, siblings, friends and relatives, etc., were with her in her every troublesome period and would try to relief her of her sorrow, but when she left them all and is now buried in a narrow and dark grave so neither parents, nor siblings and nor her family members are with her, even her friends have also left her and now she is left all alone in the grave. If we want to do something good to our dead Muslims, we should present plenty of gifts of Du’a of forgiveness and Isal-e-Sawab because Isal-e-Sawab gives pleasure to the deceased and she receives Divine mercy in abundance. The deceased desperately wait for Isal-e-Sawab from her living relatives.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘In the grave the condition of the deceased is like a drowning person, who anxiously waits for the Du’a of his parents or son or any friend to reach him, and when the Du’a of someone reaches him, it is better than the world and everything in it for him. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the reward given to the dwellers of the graves by their living relatives like mountains. The gift of the living for the deceased is ‘to make Du’a of forgiveness’ and ‘to give Sadaqah’ on their behalf.’ (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 336, Hadees 6664)

بھیجو اے بھائیو مجھے تحفہ ثواب کا

دیکھوں نہ کاش قبر میں، میں منہ عذاب کا

In order to get more information about Isal-e-Sawab buy Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s booklet ‘ Fatihah aur Isal-e-Sawab ka Tareeqah ’ [Method of Fatihah and Isal-e-Sawab] from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Study it not only yourself, but also give it to other Islamic sisters as a gift.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic sisters! In today’s speech, we have been privileged to get a few important Madani pearls from illness to grave. We have heard:

§ To go to inquire after a patient is a beautiful Sunnah of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ The sins of the one who inquires after a patient are forgiven.

§ If our words/conversation cause trouble to the patient, we should leave immediately.

§ The Holy Quran should be recited beside the patient at the time of agonies of death.

§ Wird of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Talqeen of Kalimah Tayyibah should be made by sitting beside the patient.

§ To not become gentle while giving Ghusl and to keep the deceased in cold storage/morgue are painful acts for the deceased.

§ After the death of an Islamic sister we should do good to her. For this purpose, Sawab should be conveyed to her. It not only increases our virtues, but it also benefits the deceased.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to remember these Madani pearls and to act upon them!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Du’a of forgiveness for the deceased Muslims

﴿اَللّٰھُمَّ﴾ رَبَّنَا اغۡفِرۡ لَنَا وَ لِاِخۡوَانِنَا الَّذِیۡنَ سَبَقُوۡنَا بِالۡاِیۡمَانِ وَ لَا تَجۡعَلۡ فِیۡ قُلُوۡبِنَا غِلًّا لِّلَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡا رَبَّنَاۤ اِنَّکَ رَءُوۡفٌ رَّحِیۡمٌ ﴿٪۱۰﴾

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners regarding ring

1. It is Haraam for men to wear a gold ring. The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden wearing a gold ring. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 67, Hadees 5863)

2. It is Haraam to have a (non-pubescent) boy wear the jewellery made of gold and silver, and the one having the boy do so will be a sinner. Likewise, it is also not permissible to apply henna unnecessarily to the hands and feet of boys. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 428; Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 598) There is no harm in applying henna to the hands and feet of non-pubescent girls.

3. (For men) the iron-ring is the jewellery of the damned (i.e. the Hell-dwellers). (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 305, Hadees 1792)

4. It is permissible for men to wear only a masculine ring i.e. the one with only one gem. If there is more than one gem or there are many gems, then it will not be permissible for men even if it is made of silver. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 597)

5. It is not permissible [for men] to wear a ring without a gem because a gemless ring is not actually considered a ring.

6. It is permissible to wear the ring inscribed with Huroof-e-Muqatta’at [the letters in the beginning of some Quranic Surahs] but it is not permissible to wear or touch such a ring without Wudu. Likewise, it is not also permissible for the one shaking hands with such a ring-wearing person to touch it without Wudu.

7. Similarly, it is not permissible for men to wear more than one (permissible) ring or (one or more than one) gemless rings because a gemless ring is not actually considered a ring. Women can wear gemless rings. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 428)

8. It is permissible to wear a silver ring that weighs less than 4.5 Masha (i.e. 4 grams and 374 mg) and that has only one gem.

1. It is preferable to wear a ring on the occasions of Eid [1] but men can wear only the permissible one.

2. Men should wear the ring in the way that the gem remain towards the palm while women should keep the gem towards the back of the palm. (Al-Hidayah, vol. 4, pp. 367)

3. A gemless silver ‘ring’ is typical of feminine ornament and, for men, it is Makruh (Tahreemi, impermissible and sin). (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 130)

4. Women can wear as many silver and gold rings as they like whether with or without a gem. For them is no limit on the weight of silver and gold and on the number of gems.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

