اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Islamic Saints’ Passion for Reforming the Ummah

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صل اللہ علیہ وسلم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will appoint an angel who will send that Salat to my grave, as gifts are presented to you. Undoubtedly, my knowledge after my [apparent] demise from this world will remain the same as it is in my life.’

(Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22355)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں اُن پر سلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated a faith-refreshing parable on page 514 of the great and renowned book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness], let’s listen to this parable and have our hearts enlightened with its Madani pearls!

Whole tribe became Muslim

Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ along with Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ travelled in the Divine path and reached a garden of the tribe Bani Zafar where they sat on a well, namely ‘Maraq’ ﴿ مَرَقۡ ﴾ . People from the tribe of Banu Aslam gathered around them. The most powerful chiefs of the tribe were Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and Usayd Bin Hudayr who had not yet entered the fold of Islam. Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was a first cousin [i.e. a son of the maternal aunt of] Sayyiduna As’ad Bin Zurarah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ . Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz sent Usayd Bin Hudayr instructing him: ‘Go! Rebuke those two preachers and stop them who have come to mislead our credulous people’ (م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ). Therefore, Usayd Bin Hudayr picked up his spear and reached where they were present. As soon as he arrived, he started speaking ill of them and threatened, ‘If your life is dear to you, go away from here.’ (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ said kindly and affectionately, ‘Please sit down and just listen to what we say. If you find it to be appropriate, then accept it. If you do not like it, we will not force you.’

The nice words had an impact on Usayd Bin Hudayr. Sinking his spear into the ground, he sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ presented him with Madani pearls about Islam, reading out the Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A Madani revolution occurred in his heart and he had the honour of embracing Islam. Having embraced Islam, he said, ‘Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz will come here shortly. If he accepts your advice, my entire tribe will accept

it. I am sending him to you.’ Saying this, he went straight to the place where Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz was present and convinced him to meet the two preachers.

As soon as Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz arrived, he started speaking ill of them. (Initiating the individual effort), Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ persuaded him kindly and affectionately to listen to the call to righteousness. He also sank his spear into the ground and sat beside them. Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin Umayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ presented him also with Madani pearls about the perfection of Islam. He also read out the initial Ayahs of Surah Az-Zukhruf. The blessed Ayahs had a profound impact on the heart of Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz and he also embraced Islam. Having become Muslim, Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ returned to his tribe and said, ‘What do you think of me?’ ‘You are our chief and a farsighted as well as a sagacious person’, people said in chorus. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mu’aaz رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ said, ‘It is Haraam [i.e. prohibited] for me to talk to your men and women unless you believe in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

The narrator has said, ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! All men and women of the tribe became Muslim until evening.’ (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah, vol. 2, pp. 527-529; summarized)

Saara qabeelah Iman laaya meethay bol ki barakat say

Bantay kaam bigar jatay hayn sun lo bay-ja shiddat say

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you observe? How bravely the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم would convey the call to righteousness even by endangering their lives! This parable also shows that individual effort on powerful and influential personalities such as generous individuals, big businessmen, mill owners and teachers, may bring about far-reaching effects. When two chiefs of the tribe ‘Banu Aslam’ were called towards righteousness by means of individual effort, they accepted the call to righteousness, entering the fold of Islam as well as bringing the entire tribe into it.

Remember! If a Muballigh [i.e. preacher] meets worldly powerful personalities, treating them with respect, hearing about their achievements and accomplishments, praising and flattering them; then such a Muballigh has not achieved his goal.

A successful Muballigh is the one who is not awed even by a high-ranking worldly personality such as a minister, a governmental officer or a billionaire. If the dignitary talks about worldly things, the Muballigh should dominate the conversation by offering him Madani pearls about ‘call to righteousness’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if the dignitary falsely blows his own trumpet, the Muballigh must not see eye to eye with him. If possible, the Muballigh should try to reform him. If impossible, the preacher should resent it in his heart and attempt to change the topic of conversation. The Muballigh ought to advise him about Salah, encouraging him to act upon Sunnah and inculcating in him the thought that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the power to elevate and to humiliate anyone.

The preacher should make individual effort like this, ‘You can serve Islam by taking permissible advantage of your authority. A little effort of yours can do much more than what ordinary people cannot do even by making a lot of efforts. If you set a date for attending a Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ or travelling with a Madani Qafilah, then many Islamic brothers may be prepared to attend the Ijtima’ and to travel with the Madani Qafilah just by hearing your name.’ If a Muballigh has met a dignitary once, he should remain in touch with him at least for as long as the dignitary becomes a regular traveller of Madani Qafilahs and makes others also travel. One should also remain in touch with every new Islamic brother in a similar way. Just shaking hands occasionally and talking formally should not be deemed enough.

Beware! The Muballigh must not have the dignitary resolve his personal issues. He must not request the dignitary to help him get a job or assist him in his business or lend him money etc. But rather he should make individual efforts for travelling with Madani Qafilah and attending congregation, etc.

میں نیکی کی دَعوَت کی دُھومیں مَچاؤں

بَدِی سے بَچُوں اور سب کو بَچاؤں

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Reforming the wicked people i.e. enjoining people towards righteous deeds is not a new or some ordinary job, rather, this is such a marvellous act which has been performed by the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام gracefully. Thereafter, when the chain of Nubuwwah came to an end, the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم and blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی took on this noble responsibility. Overwhelmed with great keenness and fervour, when these distinguished personalities started preaching, they were not welcomed with the shower of rose petals and floral garlands but, in return of this favour, they were subjected to extreme brutalities, wrongful imprisonment and even the body skins were ripped off. They were dragged on the blazing sand; arrows, swords and spears were pierced into their bodies but even then, these blessed people did not care for their lives in the way of Allah and many of them also embraced martyrdom. In short, the glorious way that these Allah-loving people showed for the noble obligation of reforming people is truly matchless.

Dear Islamic brothers! Today things are absolutely different as people show great respect towards the preachers. Despite this fact, it is the state of our laziness that various evils and absurdities are in full swing around us. We do have a lot of opportunities to call people towards righteousness but alas! Seeing the people involved in sins and despite having ability and power, we remain heedless of reforming them due to our sheer laziness and shyness. Remember! Despite having ability and power, showing apathy towards neighbours and other people indulged in evil activities by not reforming them is truly a cause of serious loss. So, listen to a heart-shattering narration and make up your mind to call people towards righteousness.

Deaf with cut off ears

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated, ‘It is written in the blessed Torah that one who, despite having power and ability, does not

