Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Eminence of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ يَا اَيُّهَا النَّاسُ اِنَّ اَنْجَاكُمْ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ مِنْ اَهْوَالِهَا وَ مَوَاطِنِهَا اَكْثَرُكُمْ عَلَىَّ صَلَاةً فِىْ دَارِ الدُّنْيَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, from the terror and accountability of the Day of Judgement, the person who would attain the quick salvation will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me in abundance in the world.

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic Sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

-1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

-2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

-3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

-4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

-5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

-7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

-8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

-9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed companions’ passion for sacrifice

The publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, that comprises of 2 volumes contains various admonitory parables. Parable number 17 on page no. 73 of its first volume is as follows:

Sayyiduna Abu Jahm Bin Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: (On one particular day numerous companions (Sahabah) رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were attacked and terribly wounded by non-believers. Amongst the wounded) I was looking for my [paternal] cousin. I had water in a bowl that was enough to quench the thirst of one person. I thought that if he has some remaining breaths left, then I will give this water to him and would clean his face with this water. When I reached near him, I saw that he was drenched in blood. I asked him: ‘Shall I give you water?’ Through a gesture, he said, ‘Yes’. In the meanwhile, someone’s groaning voice was heard. My [paternal] cousin said, ‘Take this water to him.’ I saw that he was the brother of Sayyiduna ‘Amr Bin ‘Aas, Sayyiduna Hishaam Bin ‘Aas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . I reached him and said, ‘Here, let me give you water.’ In the meanwhile, he too heard an injured person groaning. Through gesture, he said, ‘Take this water to him.’ When I reached him, he had passed away. Then I came back to Sayyiduna Hishaam Bin ‘Aas, but he

too had passed away. Then I came back to my [paternal] cousin and saw that he had passed away too. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 73)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What great eminence and dignity the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم possessed. Despite having their bodies covered with wounds and severity of thirst being at its peak, may we be sacrificed upon the passion of sacrifice of these blessed individuals that even in these testing times, they cared about the groaning of other companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم so much that they prioritised them over their own thirst. Just ponder that when one faces such calamitous situation when even intellect stops working and every person just thinks about himself, even then these individuals are worrying for others rather than saving their own lives thinking that if I drink the water, then my Muslim brother will remain thirsty. Undoubtedly, this was the result of their excellent education and upbringing, highly exalted courage and accomplished devotion towards Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Due to these very illustrious traits of theirs, talking about these shining stars of guidance even after centuries provide tranquillity and solace to the hearts of Muslims. Moreover, their dignity and eminence has prevailed all around. Let’s now hear that who is a ‘Sahabi’ [companion].

Definition of Sahabi [companion]

‘Allamah Haafiz Ibn-e-Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Those fortunate individuals who saw the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the state of Iman and also passed away in the state of Iman are called ‘Sahabi’ [companion].

(Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 8, pp. 3 - 4)

The number of these companions is more than 1,00,000. It is narrated that approximately 1,14,000 companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered in Makkah Mukarramah on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’ with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for Hajj. From some other narrations, we find out that the number of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم on the occasion of Hijja-tul-Wada’ was approximately 1,24,000.

(Zurqaani, vol. 3, pp. 106; Madarij, vol. 2, pp. 387; Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 51)

Names of all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are not known. Number of those companions whose names are known are 7,000.

(Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 400)

(Among all the companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), Khulafa-e-Arba’ah (i.e. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani and Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are the most superior; then are the ‘Asharah Mubashsharah (those ten companions of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ

وَسَلَّم who were given the glad tidings of Paradise in this world are called ‘Asharah Mubashsharah); after them are Hasanayn Karimayn (i.e. Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا); and then the most superior are those companions who participated in the battle of Badr and Bay’at-ur-Ridwan. Moreover, all of them (i.e. all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are destined for Heaven. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, pp. 249)

The Holy Quran mentions the righteous actions, good character and firm Iman of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم at various places. Moreover, they were given the glad tidings of forgiveness and rewards of the Hereafter

in this very world. Just ponder! Who can even think of the dignity and elevated ranks of those whose good attributes have been praised by Allah Almighty? Let’s listen to some Ayahs of the Holy Quran in relation to those sacred personalities so that their sacredness and eminence grows further in our hearts. Hence, it is stated in part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 4:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٌ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ وَ مَغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only these are true Muslims; for them are ranks with their Lord, and is forgiveness and honourable sustenance.

(Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 4)

Allah Almighty says in part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 100:

رَّضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُ وَ اَعَدَّ لَهُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ تَحْتَهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ-ذٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِیْمُ(۱۰۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him, and He has kept ready for them Gardens beneath which rivers flow; to abide in it forever and ever; only this is the great success.

(Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 100)

It is stated in part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 218:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ یَرْجُوْنَ رَحْمَتَ اللّٰهِؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ غَفُوْرٌ رَّحِیْمٌ(۲۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: They are hopeful of Allah’s mercy. And Allah is Most Forgiving, Ever Merciful. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 218)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It becomes absolutely clear from the aforementioned sacred Ayahs that all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم possess extreme reverence and dignity, as they were those who had devoted their lives to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and for the uplifting of Islam. These courageous individuals stood shoulder to shoulder with the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and presented such sacrifices in order to revive the religion that cannot be neglected. Due to the blessings of being subservient to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah Almighty did not only bless them with the great rewards such as His pleasure, forgiveness and Paradise etc., but also mentioned the bestowments and blessings attained by them in His Book (Holy Quran) at various places so that their dignity and reverence engraves firmly in the hearts of Muslims who are yet to come until the Day of Judgement. Other than the Ayahs of the Holy Quran, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also at times mentioned the excellence of all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in general, and at times, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم highlighted their dignity and status by taking their names separately.

Righteous personalities

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَكْرِمُوا اَصْحَابِي فَاِنَّهُمْ خِيَارُكُمْ ’ i.e. revere my companions as they are the most pious people among you all.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 413, Hadees 6012)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated: ‘ خَيْرُ اُمَّتِي اَلْقَرْنُ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنِي ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ’ i.e. the best among my Ummah are those who are from my era (i.e. the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), then the ones after them (i.e. Tabi’een) and then the ones after them (i.e. Tab’-e-Tabi’een). (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 2535)

There are some such blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as well due to whose remarkable achievements, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned their glory and dignity by taking their names in such a way like; Abu Bakr is the most soft-hearted and kind person of my Ummah, ‘Umar Bin Khattab is the best and the most just in my Ummah, ‘Usman Bin ‘Affaan is the most modest

and revered person of my Ummah, ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib is the wisest and bravest person of my Ummah, ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood is the most pious and trustworthy person of my Ummah, Abu Zar is the most ascetic (who has turned away from this world) and truthful person of this Ummah, Abu Darda

is the biggest devout worshipper and most pious person of my Ummah, and Mu’awiyah Bin Sufyan is the most forbearing and generous person of my Ummah (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33666)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated: I am the first one to enter Paradise among the people of ‘Arab, Salman will be the first one to enter Paradise among the people of Persia, Suhayb is the first one to enter Paradise among the Romans, and Bilal is the first one to enter Paradise among the people of Abyssinia (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 344, Hadees 33672)

All my companions (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are reverend and beloved to me, even if they are dark skinned slave. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 345, Hadees 33674)

Light of guidance

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that how did the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mention the dignity and glory of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ? Moreover, it is the desire of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that my Ummah revers and dignifies my companions immensely. Therefore, we should also truly love all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and spend our lives by following their Seerah [biography] and character; because they are the bright stars of guidance about whom the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَصْحَابِي كَالنُّجُومِ فَبِاَيِّہِمْ اِقْتَدَيْتُمْ اِهْتَدَيْتُمْ ’ i.e. my companions are like stars. Whoever among them you follow, you will be guided. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6018)

In the commentary of this Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a beautiful comparison. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as the stars of guidance, and in another Hadees, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his household (Ahl-e-Bayt) as the ark of Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . A traveller of sea is in need of a boat as well as the guidance of stars, as ship sails in sea only upon the guidance of stars. In the same way, the Muslim Ummah is in need of the Ahl-e-Bayt Athaar as well as the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for their spiritual life. Guidance for Ummah lies in following the blessed companions. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 179)

Ahl-e-Sunnat ka hay bayra paar, Ashaab-e-Huzoor

Najm hayn aur naao hay ‘itrat Rasoolullah ki

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish)

Ahl-e-Sunnat will sail safely to the shore as, the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are the stars (of guidance) and Holy Rasool’s household is their ark.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Monthly Division Madani Halqah”, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to engrave the true love of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in your heart and to understand their glory and dignity, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami, and spread the call towards righteousness. Moreover, practically take part in the 8 Madani activities. One of the 8 Madani activities is “Monthly Division Madani Halqah”. Arrange Madani Halqah on the third Thursday of every month. It should be arranged at Halqah, Area or City level (duration 2-3 hours at the most). Keep the day, time and appropriate place (facilitating veil) for the Madani Halqah fixed. Teach them Wudu (ablution), Ghusl (bath), Salah, Sunnah and Du’as as per the methodology provided by the Madani Markaz. Moreover, also teach them Shar’i rulings related to women etc., the method of Dars, Bayan, the terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami and pronouncing words correctly. Furthermore, also make them memorize Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations) from Shajarah ‘Attariyyah. Instil the Madani mind-set of expanding the Madani activities through individual effort. Explain them the 8 Madani activities and politely assign any responsibility. Impart training to the Islamic sisters as per the Madani pearls granted by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Markazi Majlis-e-Shura. The participation target is minimum 7 Islamic sisters per Zayli Halqah.

I found right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah-

Inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat . The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the fast of Ramadan. In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The matchless character and pleasant manners of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم hold a lot of importance for the reformation and edification of the Ummah. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مِثْلُ اَصْحَابِيْ فِيْ اُمَّتِيْ كَالْمِلْحِ فِي الطَّعَامِ لَا يَصْلَحُ الطَّعَامُ اِلَّا بِالْمِلْحِ ’ i.e., the example of my

companions in my Ummah is like that of salt in food; as food remains incomplete without salt. (Sharh-us-Sunnah, vol. 7, pp. 76, Hadees 3863)

As salt is less in quantity but completes the food, similarly, my companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are less in number in my Ummah, but everyone will be reformed through them. The first carriage of the train that is attached to the engine benefits the whole train. That carriage gets pulled by the engine, and then it pulls all the other carriages. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 178)

The excellence and dignity of the blessed companions

While mentioning the dignity and excellence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم on one occasion, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: The one who wants to tread on the right path should follow those and tread on their path who have passed away from this world. Those who still have not faced death, there is still a risk for them that they may indulge in a Fitnah (evil) in relation to the Deen, and these people (who should be followed) are the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They are the most superior among the entire Ummah. They are the most

kind hearted in the entire Ummah, they possess the most in-depth knowledge, and their actions do not contain show-off. They are those who were chosen by Allah Almighty for the company of His Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and serving of the Deen. Hence, realise their excellence and dignity. Follow their ways and footsteps. Adopt their character and Seerah as much as possible as undoubtedly, these individuals were firm on the right path.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 57, Hadees 193)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Did you see that how beautifully Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ conveyed the Madani pearls in relation to the dignity and importance of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ? No doubt, every companion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who was given Tarbiyyah (edification) by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is an embodiment and source of guidance. It is for the reason because in the entire Ummah, it was only the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who received the privilege of attaining the blessed proximity and company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . And due to this reason, they attained such excellence and dignity that cannot be attained by anyone else who is not a Sahabi. Therefore, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘If any one of you donate gold to the amount of a mountain cannot even be equal to the 1.25 kg barley, or even half of that, donated by my companion.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 522, Hadees 3673)

Commenting on this blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: i.e. If my companion donates 1.25 kg of barley, and any other Muslim other than them (Sahabah), whether he is a Ghaus or Qutb or an ordinary Muslim, donates gold to the amount of a mountain, then his donated gold cannot reach the ranks of proximity and acceptance in the court of Allah Almighty which was reached by the 1.25 kg donation of a companion. Same is the case with Sawm, Salah and all other acts of worship. When the Salah offered in Masjid-e-Nabawi carries 50,000 times more reward than the Salahs offered at any other place, then what can be said about those who attained the blessed proximity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and beheld him, and what can be said about the acts of worship they carried out. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 174)

Majlis Maktaba - tul - Madinah

Dear Islamic sisters! Remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to develop the love and affection for the Sahabah Kiraam and support Dawat-e-Islami for serving religion. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating call towards righteousness all over the world in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, was set up in 1986. In the beginning, only audio cassettes of speeches were released and then by the grace of Allah Almighty and mercy of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it made a great progress. Now not only is Maktaba-tul-Madinah publishing hundreds of thousands of VCDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs and sending them all over the world, but it is also publishing the Urdu translation of the books written by Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, furthermore, books written by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and the books of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah are also being published in a large number and made available for the public.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The way a major act of righteousness of any [ordinary] Muslim cannot equate to the smallest act of righteousness of a Sahabi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, similarly, no matter how big Wali, Ghaus or Qutb one becomes and numerous saintly-miracles are manifested through him, still he cannot reach to the level of any Sahabi.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah Mufti ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: All the [Islamic] scholars and great thinkers of Ummah have consensus upon the fact that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are “the highest ranked Awliya”; i.e. even if all the Awliya until the Day of Judgement attain the highest ranks in Wilayah [sainthood], still they cannot reach the excellences of Wilayah [sainthood] of any Sahabi at all. Allah Almighty blessed the ardent devotees of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with such exalted rank of Wilayah and such great saintly miracles that are not even possible to think for any other Wali. There is no doubt in the fact that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم did not manifest as many saintly miracles as have been narrated for other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . However, it shall be clear that the abundance of saintly miracles is not a proof to be superior in Wilayah [sainthood]; because Wilayah actually means to have closeness to Allah

Almighty. One who has more proximity in the court of Allah Almighty will have a higher rank in sainthood. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are those who benefited from the luminosity and blessings of the Prophethood, that’s why the closeness that they have in the court of Allah Almighty cannot be attained by other Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Although very few saintly miracles have been manifested by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, but still their rank of sainthood is a lot more superior and exalted as compared to the other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 53)

Dear Islamic sisters! We came to know that the dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is such incomparable that no one can reach their status and rank at all. It was these sacred personalities who gave physical and financial sacrifices for the uplifting of Islam. They left their homes for the propagation of Islam and never let go of patience while facing the hardships during their travel. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are Muslims, the commandments of Allah Almighty that we have in the shape of Glorious Quran and collections of the blessed Ahadees in the shape of the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are also the result of their untiring efforts of days and nights. Therefore, we shall enlighten our hearts with their love and reverence, who have done favours upon us, spend our lives while following their footsteps, refrain from even slightest of their disrespect and insolence, and should always talk good of them. The [Islamic] scholars state: ‘When (ever) they (blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are spoken of, it is Fard (obligatory) to speak only good of them.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 252)

Remember! To attain the pleasure of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is not enough to claim for his love only; rather, it is also obligatory to respect and revere all the blessed companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Otherwise, speaking ill of them can become a means of the displeasure of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

‘Allamah Yusuf Bin Isma’eel Nabhaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions a parable of Abu ‘Ali Qathaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that, I saw a dream that I entered the Jaami’ Masjid Sharqiyah of Karkh. I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . There were two other men as well along with him whom I did not know who they were. I presented Salam in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not give any reply. I humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I send such and such number of Salat and Salam upon you during the day and night, and you deprived me from the reply of Salam?’ The

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘You do send Salat upon me but reproach my companions.’ I humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I repent on your blessed hands. I will not do so in future.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said (in the reply of Salam): ‘ وَعَلَیْکَ السَّلَامُ وَرَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَبَرَکَاتُہٗ ’.

(Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 163)

Shining stars of the path of guidance

Dear Islamic sisters! We came to know from the aforementioned parable that along with loving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and reciting Salat in abundance upon him, we should also love all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool. مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, may it not be the case that we express immense love and devotion for some of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and have animosity in our hearts for the rest of the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If one does so, then she will be subject to the curse of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Deserving of the curse of Allah Almighty

Sayyiduna ‘Uwaym Bin Saa’idah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty has chosen me, and preferred my companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for me. Then He عَزَّوَجَلَّ made my ministers, helpers and relatives among them. ‘ فَمَنْ سَبَّہُمْ فَعَلَیْہِ لَعْنَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَالْمَلَائِکَۃِ وَالنَّاسِ اَجْمَعِیْنَ ’ so whoever swears at them, there is the curse of Allah Almighty, His angels and all the people upon him. ‘ لَا یَقْبَلُ اللّٰہُ مِنْہُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَرْفًا وَّلَا عَدْلًا ’ on the Day of Judgement, Allah Almighty will neither accept any of his Fard, nor any of his Nafl. (As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp. 4)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said: Fear Allah Almighty in relation to my companions. Do not make them a target (of your slanders and evil statements) after me. Therefore, whosoever loved them did so due to loving me and whosoever kept a grudge against them in fact did so due to having grudge against me. Whoever hurt them hurt me, and whoever hurt me displeased Allah Almighty. And whoever displeases Allah Almighty, soon Allah Almighty will hold him to account. (Mishkat, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6014)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: ‘ وَمَنْ اَسَاءَ الْقَوْلَ فِیْ اَصْحَابِیْ کَانَ مُخَالِفًا لِسُنَّتِیْ ’ whoever uttered an evil statement against my companions (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) has

deviated away from my path ‘ وَمَأْ وَاہُ النَّارُ وَبِئْسَ الْمَصِیْرُ ’ and his destination is Hell, and what a horrendous place it is to return to. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that according to the blessed Hadees, those who have grudge against the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are deserving of the curse of Allah Almighty, angels and all the people. Those who disrespect the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم face the displeasure of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and destroy their Hereafter. Moreover, they are not even blessed with reciting the blessed Kalimah at the time of their death.

Therefore, we should adopt the company of the devotees of Rasool, Sahabah, Ahl-e-Bayt and Awliya. Ignite the flame of love of these sacred personalities in your heart and become deserving of the blessings of both worlds. Having love of the chosen people of Allah Almighty is extremely beneficial in the grave and Hereafter.

Wasilah [sake] of Sahabah saved in the grave

Commentator of the Holy Quran, Sayyiduna Abul Qaasim Bin Hibatullah Bin Salaamah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One student of our beloved teacher passed away. Seeing him in the dream, our beloved teacher asked him: ‘How did Allah Almighty deal with you?’ He replied: ‘I have been forgiven.’ The beloved teacher inquired: ‘How was the session with Nakirayn?’ He replied: ‘Dear teacher! When Nakirayn sat me down and asked me that who is your Lord and who is your Nabi? Then Allah Almighty, through Ilhaam (instilled in my heart and) made me say to them that: ‘Leave me for the Wasilah (sake) of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr and Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا .’ Hence, one angel said to the other: ‘He has given us a very big oath. Therefore, leave him.’ Therefore, they both left me and went away.

(Al-Muntazam li Ibn Jawzi, vol. 15, pp. 138, Raqm 3092; Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 256)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Those who love the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are the beloveds of Allah Almighty and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In fact, those fortunate people will also attain the especial blessed proximity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement.

The fortunate to attain the proximity of Holy Nabi

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who has devotion towards my Sahabah, blessed wives and Ahl-e-Bayt (رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), does not reproach anyone of them and passes away in the state of having devotion to them will be with me on the same level on the Day of Judgement. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

Those who love the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم have glad tidings of salvation from hypocrisy.

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ اَحْسَنَ الْقَوْلَ فِیْ اَصْحَابِیْ فَقَدْ بَرِئَ مِنَ النِّفَاقِ ’ i.e. the one who spoke good of my companions has become free from hypocrisy. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 22)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about good company

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about good company. First of all, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَلْمَرْءُ مَعَ مَنْ اَحَبَّ ’ A person will be with the one who he loves. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1088, Hadees 6718)

-2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person is on the lifestyle of his friend; so every one of you should see who he is making a friendship with. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

٭ A good companion is the one whose sight reminds you of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whose speech increases your (good) deed and whose deed reminds you of the Hereafter.’ (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 2, pp. 247, Hadees 4063)

٭ Remember! We should only have good company and keep ourselves away from bad people. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The example of a good and bad companion is like the one who carries Musk (i.e. Kastoori) and the one who blows the bellows into furnace. The one who carries musk will either gift you or you will buy from him or you will have pleasant fragrance from him, whereas the one who blows the bellows into furnace either will burn your clothes or you will have unpleasant smell from him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1414, Hadees 2628)

٭ Every company surely has its influence. For example if you meet an Islamic sister whose eyes are filled with tears and signs of sorrow are evident on her face due to the death of her dear one, so by seeing her in this state

you may also feel sad for a while. Moreover, if you sit with any such Islamic sister whose face is lighting up with pleasure due to a success, who is smiling and her blissful talk is showing gladness then you will also become happy for some time inadvertently.

٭ A blessed Hadees says: Sayyiduna Abu Razeen رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ has narrated that the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Should I not guide you about the essence of the thing by which you get the goodness of the world and the Hereafter? (That essential thing is) you attend the gathering of those who make Zikr.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 492, Hadees 9024)

Dear Islamic sisters! As a matter of fact, we should associate ourselves with good environment for the good of the world and the Hereafter and have the company of righteous people and establish friendship with them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّ د

