Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Good Manners

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me 10 times in the morning and 10 times in the evening, he shall gain my intercession on the Day of Judgement.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 163, Hadees 17022)

شَفاعت کرے حَشر میں جو رضاؔ کی

سِوا تیرے کِس کو یہ قُدرَت مِلی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

Blessings of good manners

When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was informed that a famous warrior of Najd (presently Riyadh), Du’soor Bin Haaris Muhaaribi, had gathered an army to attack Madinah, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, along with the army

of 400 blessed companions, went to fight against them. When Du’soor heard that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has arrived in his city, he ran away and climbed the mountains along with his army. One of his soldiers whose name was Habbaan was arrested and embraced Islam in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Suddenly, it rained heavily on that day. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to dry his clothes near a tree. From the top of the mountain, non-Muslims noticed that blessed companions were busy in their activities and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was alone. Therefore, they incited Du’soor to attack the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Saying this sentence, ‘May I be killed by Allah if I am unable to kill Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)’, he moved towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with a sword in his hand and spoke raising the sword over the head of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . ‘Now, who will save you from me?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will save me from you.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had just said these words Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام immediately landed on the earth and gave Du’soor a punch on his chest, causing the sword to fall from his hand on the ground. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immediately picked up the sword and then asked, ‘Now who will save you from me?’ Du’soor replied, ‘No one can save me from you!’

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had mercy on his helplessness. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not only forgive his mistake, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also returned his sword to him. Du’soor was so much impressed with the merciful manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he recited Kalimah and embraced Islam immediately. Having returned to his people, he started preaching Islam. (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 2, pp. 378-381)

تِرے اَخلاق پر قُرباں تِرے اَوصاف پر وارِی

مُسلماں کیا عَدُو بھی تیرا قائل یا رسولَ الله

Explanation of couplet: i.e. Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May I be sacrificed on your good manners and nice attributes! Not only your followers,

but non-Muslims were also very much impressed by your good manners and nice attributes.

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard how good the manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were! Despite having absolute authority and power he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never took revenge for himself, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would respond to evil with goodness. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would even treat those, who were his bitter enemies, so much gently that they would start loving the beautiful styles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As it has become obvious from the above-mentioned event that when Du’soor, who was a bitter enemy of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, saw the forgiveness and good manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he was very much impressed and immediately recited Kalimah and embraced Islam. It has become obvious that good manners are the best Madani method to win the hearts of people. It is the method that is beneficial for everyone because neither money is spent on good manners nor is there any disadvantage in it.

Blessings of a well-mannered preacher

It is absolutely necessary for preachers to have good manners because by virtue of the blessing of a well-mannered preacher, Madani activities progress by leaps and bounds. A well-mannered preacher can carry out Madani activities in a correct and efficient manner. By virtue of the blessing of a well-mannered preacher, Madani activities get flourished in the area. A well-mannered preacher brings about good name to Dawat-e-Islami. A well-mannered preacher can easily associate new Islamic sisters to the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. A well-mannered preacher is called a successful responsible Islamic sister. A well-mannered preacher does not have to face any specific trouble during her individual effort. Sinners are privileged to repent of their sins and non-Muslims are privileged to embrace Islam by virtue of the blessing of the individual effort of a well-mannered preacher. A well-mannered preacher can eliminate hatred and develop a peaceful and loving environment. A well-mannered preacher can re-unite the separated. A well-mannered preacher can remove distance and bring people closer in a peaceful and pleasant environment.

In short, good manners bring about abundant advantages. Therefore, we should adopt gentleness and well-manners. However, we should remember that it is not necessary if we meet someone smilingly, she will also welcome us cheerfully in return, but rather it is possible that the one we are talking to becomes angry considering our smile to be a taunt and behaves badly towards us. Thus on such occasion this commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be kept in mind. It is stated in Ayah 34 of Surah Haa-Meem As-Sajdah, part 24:

وَ لَا تَسْتَوِی الْحَسَنَةُ وَ لَا السَّیِّئَةُؕ-اِدْفَعْ بِالَّتِیْ هِیَ اَحْسَنُ فَاِذَا الَّذِیْ بَیْنَكَ وَ بَیْنَهٗ عَدَاوَةٌ كَاَنَّهٗ وَلِیٌّ حَمِیْمٌ(۳۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And the good deed and the evil deed will never be equal; O listener! Repel the evil (deed) with one which is better, thereupon the one between whom and you was enmity, (at that time he) will become like a close friend.

Telling about the method of responding evil with goodness, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: For example, anger with patience, ignorance with forbearance, bad behaviour with forgiveness; if someone does wrong with you, you forgive her. As a result of this habit, your enemy will love you like your friends. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 884)

تُو نرمی کو اپنانا جھگڑے مٹانا رہے گا سدا خُوشنُما مَدَنی ماحول

تُو غُصّے جھڑکنے سے بچنا وگرنہ یہ بد نام ہوگا تِرا مَدَنی ماحول

Dear Islamic sisters! Everyone, whether Muslim or non-Muslim acknowledges that Islam has spread due to good manners and gentleness. Today a great number of followers of Islam we see in the entire world are majorly by virtue of the good manners and gentleness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his blessed teachings and the good manners of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, even today countless non-Muslims are embracing Islam thanks to the blessings of good manners. Whereas Madani reformation keeps on taking place in the lives of drinkers, interest takers, disobedient children, fornicators, film and drama fans and listeners of songs and music, lovers of fashion, bitter enemies of each other, wicked people of the society, people having corrupt beliefs, and different types of sinful people. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about blessings of good manners.

Repentance of an alcoholic

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated in Ihya-ul-‘Uloom: Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Zakariyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Once I went to Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he was returning home from the Masjid after offering Salat-ul-Maghrib. On the way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a young Qurayshi who was highly intoxicated. He did something immoral to a woman, who cried. People fell upon him. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recognised him and hugged him affectionately after freeing him from the people. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took him to his home and made him sleep. When he woke up, he came to his senses. On knowing about his shameless behaviour during the state of intoxication, he became very ashamed and wept and then began to leave.

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped him and presented him call towards righteousness in an extremely gentle manner and made him realize: O Son! You are a Qurayshi. Your nobility is great! Just ponder seriously over the great descendant! Dear son, fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and repent of drinking wine and all other sins for ever. That young Qurayshi was deeply ashamed and repented tearfully and swore an oath to stay away from alcohol and other sins. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kissed the young man’s forehead with affection and greatly encouraged him. He was deeply impressed and started having his (Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) company and was assigned the task of writing down the blessed Ahadees. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 411)

Let’s implore in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

نعمتِ اَخلاق کر دیجئے عطا

یہ کرم یا مُصطَفٰے فرمائیے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed! How beautifully Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presented call towards righteousness! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was filled with the sacred passion for reforming the misguided Muslims. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a drinker being beaten by people, he freed him from the people and took him to his home. As he came to his senses, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه advised him in an extremely gentle way. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his sweet words, affectionate style and good manners touched the heart of the drinker so much that he repented of drinking wine and committing other sins and got busy serving blessed Hadees in the company of Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

If Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had also fallen upon him and started beating him, treated him cruelly and badly, so just ponder, would there have been any effect of his individual effort and pieces of advice upon him? Would he have stopped committing sins? Would he have reformed? Would he have developed a mind-set to repent truly of his sins? Would a Madani reformation have taken place in in his life? Surely, not at all! If we want to spread Sunnah in our society, want Muslims to become real obedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and adopt the Madani aim, ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’, we should advise the Islamic sisters with love, gentleness and affection who do not offer Salah, act upon Sunnah or are busy committing different types of sins. Further, we should try to bring them closer to the Madani environment through good manners.

Outcome of good and bad manners

A pious man has said: Good manners make even a stranger, friend and bad manners make even friends, strangers. (Deen-o-Dunya ki Anokhi Baatayn, pp. 268)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, books of Ahadees are full of the virtues of good manners. For persuasion, let’s listen to four blessed Ahadees and rejoice:

1. You cannot please people by your wealth, but your cheerfulness and good manners can please them. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 253, Hadees 8054)

On the Day of Judgement there will be no other deed that weighs heavier on the scale of deeds of a believer than good manners. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 403, Hadees 2009)

The perfect believers in Iman (faith) are those who have good manners. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 290, Hadees 4682)

Those whose manners are the best amongst you, will be most favourite to me and will be nearest to me on the Day of Judgement. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 409, Hadees 2025)

اَخلاق ہوں اچّھے مِرا کِردار ہو سُتھرا

مَحبوب کا صَدقہ تُو مجھے نیک بنا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you heard how great blessings good manners have! Good manners make people happy; good manners will be the heaviest on the scale of deeds on the Judgement Day; Well-mannered people are perfect believers. Well-mannered people will be privileged to attain the closeness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Judgement Day. It is hoped now that after listening to so many virtues and blessings of good manners we must have made our mind to adopt good manners, but the question arises what good manners mean? So let’s listen to what good manners are.

What are good manners?

A person once humbly asked a question from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about good manners, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following Ayah before him:

خُذِ الْعَفْوَ وَ اْمُرْ بِالْعُرْفِ وَ اَعْرِضْ عَنِ الْجٰهِلِیْنَ(۱۹۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Beloved Rasool, adopt forgiveness, and command to do good, and turn away from the ignorant ones.

(Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 199)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me, ‘Should I not guide you about the good manners of the people of the past and the future?’ I humbly replied, ‘Do guide me about it.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Bestow upon the one who deprives you; forgive the one who oppresses you and establish relations with the one who breaks off relations with you.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 222, Hadees 7956)

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Meeting (people) cheerfully, benefitting them greatly and not causing trouble to anyone are among good manners. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 404, Hadees 2012)

ہو اَخلاق اچّھا ہو کِردار سُتھرا

مُجھے مُتَّقِی تُو بنا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! One of the blessings of good manners is that the person who is more well-mannered will progress more and will attain many benefits. This point can be understood in this way that great rush of customers is seen at some shops and many people carry out their shopping through these shops. One of the secrets of their successful business is that they treat their customers courteously and politely. They offer them tea, biscuits and cold drinks, etc. If a customer demands to show him one thing, the shopkeeper shows ten things.

In short, they are so well-mannered and polite to their customers that they (customers) do not leave without shopping. Suppose, if a customer misbehaves with any shopkeeper, the shopkeeper cheerfully tolerates it and does not lose his customer. Now we should make our own accountability: Do we have the same courteous style when making an individual effort upon new Islamic sisters? Do we also have a smile on our face when meeting new Islamic sisters? Do we give any present such as a booklet of Maktaba-tul-Madinah at the time of presenting call towards righteousness? Has anyone till now joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami or any wrongdoer been privileged to repent of her sins after being impressed by our good manners? Have we ever tolerated the cruel treatment of a cruel person cheerfully or مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we have foolishly misbehaved with her after doing something bad to her in response? Our manners should be so good that the one who sees should say spontaneously that when this is the state of the good manners of the slaves of Rasool, so what will be the state of the good manners of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Remember! The blessings of good manners are not limited to only well-mannered people, but rather their children also attain their benefits.

Daughter released thanks to good manners of father!

Once, the prisoners of tribe Tay [ طَیء ] were brought to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A girl prisoner stood up and humbly said: O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! If you consider it better [to free me], free me and do not make the tribes of Arab laugh at me because I am the daughter of Haatim Taa`ee, the chief of my tribe. Undoubtedly, my father used to support his tribe, free prisoners, satiate the hungry, spread Salam, and never let any needy person go back without fulfilling his need. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O girl! This is the attribute of those who have true faith. If your father had been Muslim, I must have made Du’a of mercy for him. (He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said:) Free this girl because his father used to like good manners and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also likes good manners. I swear to the One in Whose power my soul is! Only well-mannered person will enter Paradise. (Nawadir-ul-Usool, vol. 2, pp. 727, Hadees 1001)

مِرے اَخلاق اچّھے ہوں مِرے سب کام اچّھے ہوں

بنا دو مجھ کو تم پابندِ سُنّت یا رسولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for women) one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become obvious that the misconceptions about Safar-ul-Muzaffar amongst people have nothing to do with reality, but rather it is resulted from only superstitious thoughts and lack of Islamic knowledge. Therefore as a Muslim, we should keep away from such superstitious thoughts. We should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah, One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for women). Arrange at least one Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for women) in one Zayli Halqah. The target is to have at least 12 Islamic sisters for studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah. (Duration: maximum 1 hour and 12 minutes). It can be arranged any time between morning 8 and the Azan of ‘Asr (at a purdah-making place). Teach them the method of giving Ghusl, making Wudu, offering Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as, Shar’i rulings on women along with the correct recitation of the Holy Quran not without looking at the book, but by looking at the book, namely ‘Islami Behno ki Namaz’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Arrange Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for women) as per the Madani pearls. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madrasa-tul-Madinah is also an extremely effective source of imparting and gaining Islamic knowledge. It is sated about the excellence of gaining Islamic knowledge: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed to Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: Learn good things yourself and teach them to others as well. I will illuminate the graves of those who learn goodness and teach it so that they do not feel any kind of terror. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 5, Hadees 7622)

Passion for fashion turned into devotion to Sunnah (Madani parable)

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. I was so crazy about western culture that I would wear pants and shirt like boys. I would talk to Na-Mahram males unhesitatingly and would remain in the company of ill-mannered friends. My father used to run a hotel. I was so bold that I would sit at the counter of the hotel despite being prohibited by my father. I used to study at a school. Glory be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I suddenly took an interest in studying at a Madrasah and mentioned it to my father. Seizing the opportunity, he admitted me to Dawat-e-Islami’s Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for females). I started learning the Holy Quran.

After a few days, our teacher told us about the annually-held global Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in Multan and persuaded us to visit houses in order to invite other Islamic sisters for the Ijtima’ calling them to righteousness. We spread the invitation to the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ actively and excitedly. I was anxiously waiting for the ‘special session’ of the last day because I had never attended any Ijtima’ before. At last, the day of the Ijtima’ arrived. I attended ‘the special session’ of the annual Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ enthusiastically in which I had the opportunity to listen to the telephonic speech on the topic of ‘ Cure for Sins ’. The speech made me tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I suddenly realized how flagrantly I was disobeying my Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ and leading a sinful life!

At the end, a heart-rending Du’a was made. When I saw countless weeping Islamic sisters during the Du’a I also started weeping with my heart full of remorse. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I repented of sins and made a firm intention to get reformed. By the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, I attended the Ijtima’ which had a profound impact on my heart, inspiring me to associate myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I started observing Islamic veiling and offering Salah regularly. Today, my parents are very pleased with me and grateful to Dawat-e-Islami which has led their daughter who was an epitome of fashion to the path of Sunnah.

اگر سُنّتیں سیکھنے کا ہے جذبہ تم آجاؤ دیگا سِکھا مَدَنی ماحول

بُری صُحبتوں سے کَنارہ کَشی کر کے اچھوں کے پاس آ کے پا مَدَنی ماحول

سَنور جائے گی آخِرت اِن شَآءَ الله تم اپنائے رکھو سَدا مَدَنی ماحول

گنہگارو آؤ، سِیَہ کارو آؤ گُناہوں کو دیگا چُھڑا مَدَنی ماحول

Dear Islamic sisters! The way our pious predecessors reformed the misguided people through their good manners is exemplary. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, reformation of Ummah and the blessed act of presenting call towards righteousness are still going on. In today’s sinful era, there are many such pious people living in this world by virtue of whose good manners many people have been reformed and non-Muslims have embraced Islam. One of them is the great scholarly and spiritual luminary of 15 th century, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Thanks to his untiring day and night efforts and good manners, Madani reformation has taken place in the lives of a large number of people. That’s right! If you want to experience it with your own eyes, please see the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. The thousands of participants of Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’aat and Ijtima’aat of Madani Muzakarah across the globe reveal the fact that this is the blessing of a great personage.

Yes! May I be sacrificed on the good manners of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, this is definitely the sacred blessing of the blessed character of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that on the hands of Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat countless people who were the most un-liked in the society, have repented of their sins. Whenever the guiding light of his good manners fell upon a non-Salah offering person, it not only made him a regular Salah-offering person but enabled him to lead Salah as an Imam. The one who was unable to recite the Holy Quran correctly, fragrance of his lofty good manners made him Qaari. Those who were deprived of learning knowledge of Deen were convinced through his good manners and thus some of them became Mufti and some Shaykh-ul-Hadees. An Islamic scholar while saluting the good

manners of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, has mentioned in his couplets:

مسلک کا تُو اِمام ہے اِلیاس قادری تدبیر تیری تام ہے الیاس قادری

امریکہ، یُورپ، ایشیاء، افریقہ ہر زمیں کرتی تجھے سلام ہے الیاس قادری

فکرِ رضا کو کر دیا عالَم پہ آشکار یہ تیرا اُونچا کام ہے الیاس قادری

سنّت کی خوشبوؤں سے زمانہ مہک اُٹھا فیضان تیرا عام ہے الیاس قادری

تنہا چلا تُو ساتھ تِرے ہوگیا جہاں میٹھا تیرا کلام ہے الیاس قادری

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow us for the sake of the good manners of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami. Would that, may we get rid of our habit of scolding others. May we and our words become gentle and sweet.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic brother who associated himself with Dawat-e-Islami after being impressed with the good manners of this perfect pious saint and try to act upon the Madani pearls which are obtained from it.

Great patience

During the early days of Dawat-e-Islami, the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ [congregation] used to be held in Gulzar-e-Habib Masjid, Gulistan-e-Shafi’ Okarvi [Soldier Bazar Area], Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi [Pakistan]. This Masjid was the very first Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami.

In those early days once, whilst making his way to the Masjid to attend the Ijtima’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه passed by a cinema. One young

man was standing in a queue to buy ticket for the movie. Calling out Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه loudly (مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ) he said: ‘Maulana! A great movie is being shown, come and watch it’.

Before any of the other Islamic brothers accompanying Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه could react or get upset, he said Salam aloud to the young man. Then he approached him, and making an individual effort upon him very politely he said: ‘Son! I do not watch movies. However as you have invited me, so I thought that I should also invite you! اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ [congregation] of Dawat-e-Islami will be held shortly today at Gulzar-e-Habib Masjid. You are requested to attend it. If you cannot come now, then do come on another day.’ Then Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه gave him the gift of a bottle of perfume [‘Itr].

After some years, an Islamic brother, who was Sunnah-practising, came to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه wearing green ‘Imamah and humbly said like this: Your honour! Some years ago, a young man (مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ) invited you to watch a movie and you showed great patience. Instead of being angry with him, you invited him to attend the Ijtima. I am the same young man. I was really impressed with your great good manners and finally attended the Ijtima one day. Then you showed mercy on me and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I repented of my sins and associated myself with the Madani environment.

(Ta’aruf Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, pp. 40)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how beautiful individual effort method of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was! If he had become angry at the immoral act of the unwise person, and said something strictly, he would have never achieved such Madani results. Therefore, if you also want to reform Ummah, make good manners, humbleness, patience and politeness part of your nature because bad manners spoil the deeds. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Good manners melt sins in a way as water melts the ice and bad manners spoil deeds as vinegar spoils honey. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 10, pp. 319, Hadees 10777)

Let’s listen to a few worldly and religious disadvantages of bad manners.

Religious and worldly disadvantages of bad manners

Bad manners are a curse.

Bad manners are themselves a bad practice and also a means of many bad practices. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 436)

Untruth, dishonesty and breaking promises are all branches of bad manners. (Ibid)

Bad manners bring about discord among one another. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 569)

Bad manners create malice, jealousy and separation from one another. (Ibid)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sought refuge from bad manners. (Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 130, Hadees 1546)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is displeased with bad manners and foul language.

Customers hesitate to go to shopkeepers having bad manners.

Bad manners are a bad omen. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Juz: 3, vol. 2, pp. 178, Hadees 7343)

If bad manners were in the form of a human, he would be a (very) bad man. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Juz: 3, vol. 2, pp. 178, Hadees 7351)

To Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the biggest evil is bad manners. (Jami’-ul-Ahadees, vol. 19, pp. 406, Hadees 14922)

Undoubtedly, immodesty and bad manners have nothing to do with Islam. (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 7, pp. 431, Hadees 20997)

A bad manner is a very big obstacle in the way of presenting call towards righteousness.

Bad manners sometimes become the cause of divorce between husband and wife.

Due to the curse of bad manners the peace of home gets destroyed.

Due to the curse of bad manners any devotee of Rasool or rather the whole family can get away from the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

The curse of bad manners can cause separation of two families.

The curse of bad manners causes the near ones go away.

An ill-mannered person repents of one sin and starts committing another sin that is even worse than the previous one. (Jami’-ul-Ahadees, vol. 2, pp. 375, Hadees 6064)

An ill-mannered person gets unsuccessful over and over again. In short, bad manners are the collection of abundant evils and are a cause of destruction in the world and the Hereafter.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect every Muslim from the curse of bad manners!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We have just heard about the worldly and Hereafter disadvantages of bad manners. Would that we could also develop hatred towards bad manners after listening and could also develop the mind-set to repent of them! Now let’s listen to 14 ways of becoming paradigm of well-mannered and also make intention to act upon them:

Ways of forming habit of good manners

1. In order to be a paradigm of well-mannered, beseech humbly raising your hands in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make Du’a tearfully for the salvation from bad manners.

Read and listen over and over again to the blessed Ahadees and narrations, parables and sayings of pious predecessors consisting of the advantages of good manners and the disadvantages of bad manners.

Keep silent for most of the day and form your habit to have either written or non-verbal communication as far as possible.

1. Make it your routine to recite the Holy Quran regularly with the translation of Quran from Kanz-ul-Iman and also study Tafseer Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan or Noor-ul-‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan .

2. Stay safe from the company of bad people.

3. Keep yourself associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and participate actively in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

4. Attend regularly the Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, which are full of knowledge and wisdom, and weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat of Dawat-e-Islami.

5. Observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat.

6. Keep watching different programs on Madani Channel.

7. Associate yourself strictly with any perfect spiritual guide. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all the conditions of a perfect spiritual guide can be found in the character of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Therefore, you also include yourself among the slaves of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه after becoming Mureed of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

8. Offer your services to any one of the departments established under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of acting upon these, we will get rid of bad manners and make our mind-set to have good manners.

9. Study the booklets ‘Islamic Manners’, ‘Respect of a Muslim’ and ‘Sweet Words’.

10. Study the topic ‘Husn-e-Akhlaq ka Bayan’ from Ihya-ul-‘Uloom .

Let’s supplicate in the Divine court of Rab-e-Kareem عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

تُو عطا حِلم کی بھیک کر دے میرے اَخلاق بھی ٹھیک کر دے

تجھ کو فاروق کا واسطہ ہے یا خُدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

Majlis Madani Muzakarah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is propagating Sunnah all over the world in approximately 104 departments for serving Islam. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has started a question-answer program to act upon the saying ‘knowledge is a collection of countless treasures and a question is a source of acquiring them’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, it is called ‘Madani Muzakarah’. Devotees of Rasool attend ‘Madani Muzakarahs’ during which they ask different questions about beliefs and deeds, virtues, Manaqib, Shari’ah and Tareeqah, history and biography, science and medicine, morality and Islamic information, economic, social and organizational matters and many other topics. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه answers them with full of wisdom and enriched in the love of the Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’, efforts are being made to present these Madani Muzakarahs in the form of booklets, VCDs and memory cards with the passion for conveying these interesting Madani pearls, full of knowledge and wisdom given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, to the Muslims all over the world.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of salvation from bad manners

اَللّٰهُمَّ اِنِّیْ اَعُوْذُ بِكَ مِنْ مُنْكَرَاتِ الْاَخْلَاقِ، وَ الْاَعْمَالِ وَالْاَهْوَاءِ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I seek the protection of You from bad manners, bad deeds and bad desires. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 340, Hadees 3602)

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic sisters! In today’s speech, we have heard about the blessings of good manners. We have heard:

Good manners are a source of closeness to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Well-mannered people are perfect believers.

Good manners are an excellent method to win the heart.

By virtue of the blessing of good manners sinful people are reformed.

By virtue of the blessing of good manners non-Muslims embrace Islam.

By virtue of the blessing of good manners the work of Deen progresses by leaps and bounds.

By virtue of the blessing of good manners even enemies become friends.

By virtue of the blessing of good manners one does not face difficulties in making individual efforts.

Children also attain the fruits of the blessings of good manners.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with the great wealth of good manners and protect us from bad manners!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of hair

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of hair.

1. It is Haraam (forbidden) for a woman to shave her head. (Summary Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 664)

2. Cutting of hair as done by Christian women nowadays is impermissible and sinful. Such woman has been cursed. If husband has instructed to do so, even then the woman would become sinful if she does it, because nobody (e.g. parents or husband) should be obeyed if they instruct contrary to Shari’ah. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 588)

3. Do not get the hair of small girls cut as boys. Give them a mind-set of keeping long hair since their childhood.

4. Some Islamic sisters part their hair from right or left side, this is against Sunnah.

5. It is Sunnah to have the hair parted in the middle.

1. Saying of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم: Whoever has hair, should respect it. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 103, Hadees 4163) i.e. she should wash it, oil and comb.

2. Before applying the oil, recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ) and pour some oil onto the palm of left hand out of the bottle etc., then first oil the eyebrow of right eye, then of left eye, then eyelashes of right eye, then of left eye, and then oil hair.

3. Women must hide the hairs that fall while combing or washing, so that no stranger (i.e. the person to whom Nikah is not Haraam forever) could see them. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 449)

4. Begin with the right side while combing. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهَا has said: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم liked to begin doing everything with the right side even wearing shoes, combing, and attaining purity. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 81, Hadees 168)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

