Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Deep devotion of A’la Hadrat to visit Madinah . 4

Blessed Ahadees about the greatness of Madinah . 6

Characteristics of Madinah Munawwarah . 7

Unique ways of visiting the blessed Raudah of Beloved Rasool 9

10 Advantages of visiting the blessed Raudah . 10

Reward of patience during the visit to Madinah . 13

Warning to the one causing pain to inhabitants of Madinah . 14

Spend generously in Madinah Munawwarah . 15

Participate in the 12 Madani activities . 17

Impressed with Madani Channel, 12 people embraced Islam ... 17

Did not ride an animal in Madinah . 19

Manners of appearing in the court of the Beloved Rasool 19

Introduction of the book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat’ 21

Summary of speech . 24

Madani pearls about applying oil and combing hair . 26

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 28

2. All sins forgiven .. 28

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 29

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 29

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 29

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 30

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 30

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 30

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessed Saints’ Manners of Visiting Madinah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Send abundant Salat upon me on Fridays, for it is the day of presence, angels appear [during this] and whoever recites Salat upon me, his Salat is presented to me. The narrator said: I humbly asked, ‘Even after your apparent demise?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Yes! Indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden the earth to consume the bodies of the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُوَالـسَّـلَام, so the Ambiya of Allah are alive and are provided with provision.’ (Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 291, Hadees 1637)

جِنّ و بَشَر سلام کو حاضِر ہیں اَلسَّلام یہ بارگاہ مالکِ جِنّ و بَشَر کی ہے

چھائے ملائکہ ہیں لگاتار ہے دُرُود بدلے ہیں پہرے بدلے میں بارش دُرَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Deep devotion of A’la Hadrat to visit Madinah

A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell severely ill after he had performed the acts of Hajj while performing his second Hajj. In spite of it, his passion and enthusiasm to visit the blessed Madinah did not decrease. Due to the intensified fever, the scholars tried to prevent him, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘To tell you the truth, the real purpose of my visit is to behold the holy Taybah; I started my pilgrimage both times with the same intention; if it is not so مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the bliss and spirituality of my Hajj would go unfulfilled.

When the scholars insisted strongly due to his ailing condition, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه read the following Hadees: مَنۡ حَجَّ وَلَمۡ يَزُرۡنِيۡ فَقَدۡ جَفَانِيۡ The one who performed Hajj and did not behold me (my tomb), is unfair to me ’. [1] A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then said, ‘In my opinion, this Hadees does not mean that visiting once is sufficient, though a person has performed Hajj so many times but it is essential to pay a visit with every Hajj; now please make Du’a [for me] so that I may get the privilege to visit the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Once I behold the Blessed Raudah I do not bother if I depart from this world at the same time.’

(‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 145, 146)

The devotee of A’la Hadrat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه expresses his devotional passion in his poetic couplets ‘ Wasail-e-Bakhshish ’:

چَلوں دُنیا سے میں اِس شان سے اے کاش! یَا الله شَہِ اَبرار کی چوکَھٹ پہ سَر ہو میرا خَم مَولٰی

سُنہری جالِیوں کے سامنے اے کاش! ایسا ہو نکل جائے رسولِ پاک کے جلوؤں میں دَم مَولٰی

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 98)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen that the heart of A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was filled with deep and desperate longing for visiting the blessed court of the most Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If he had wanted he would have been privileged to visit the blessed mausoleum of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after some time, but since the deep devotion and strong attachment to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was his true aim and destination; so, even his critical illness could not prevent him from presenting himself in the blessed court, i.e. the blessed Raudah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

In brief! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a profound passion just to have a glimpse at the blessed Raudah of the Greatest Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to fill his eyes with spiritual coolness even if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had to risk his life, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not worry. Moreover, his following sentence is also worth mentioning with golden words in history: ‘ If you ask earnestly, my true aim and objective is the destination to Taybah, both the times, I embark on this journey with the same intention, if it is not so مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the bliss & spirituality of my Hajj would go unfulfilled. ’

ان کے طفیل حج بھی خدا نے کرا دئیے اصلِ مُراد حاضری اس پاک در کی ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! Certainly, visiting the blessed raudah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is of great privilege and it is a passionate desire and aspiration of each and every devotee of Rasool, and he lives his life with this very hope: ‘One day or other, we will also have privilege to see the spiritual light of blessed Green Tomb.’ And whoever has calling from the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, starts preparation of his blessed journey and his expressions give impression as if he says:

شُکرِ خُدا کہ آج گَھڑی اُس سَفر کی ہے

جِس پَر نِثار جان فَلاح و ظَفَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed Ahadees about the greatness of Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! Madinah Munawwarah is that sacred city where the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lived and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted privilege to the soil of Madinah to kiss his blessed feet.

Having being blessed with all such privileges, the sacred city of Madinah gained greatness, distinction and blessings. It is for the reason this sacred piece of land became the most fragrant and illuminating city and the one who lives in Madinah is symbolised to be safe and dying in Madinah is a guarantee of intercession. In order to develop our yearning and passion for Madinah, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There are angels at all the entrances (roads) of Madinah; plague and Dajjaal will not enter it. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 619, Hadees 1880)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I swear by the One under Whose omnipotence my life is! In Madinah, there is neither any valley nor any path but there are two angels at it who are guarding it. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 547, Hadees 1374)

Imam Nawavi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Excellence of Madinah Munawwarah has been mentioned in this narration. It was guarded in the blessed era of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Angels used to guard [it] abundantly. They have surrounded all valleys in reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Sharh Sahih Muslim lin-Nawavi, vol. 5, part. 9, pp. 148)

ملائک لگاتے ہیں آنکھوں میں اپنی

شَب و روز خاکِ مَزارِ مَدِینَہ

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever can die in Madinah should die in it, because I will intercede for those who die in Madinah. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 483, Hadees 3943)

طَیبَہ میں مَر کے ٹھنڈے چلے جاؤ آنکھیں بند

سِیدھی سَڑک یہ شَہرِ شَفاعَت نگر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 222)

Characteristics of Madinah Munawwarah

Dear Islamic brothers! As the city, Madinah Munawwarah has countless merits and excellence, similarly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed this sacred city with uncountable virtues, such as:

There is not a single city on the earth that has so many beautiful names as we have for the holy city of Madinah. Some Islamic scholars have written 100 names.

Madinah Munawwarah is a city upon whose devotion a large number of Qasidahs (eulogies) have been written in many languages of the world, and these praises continue to be written, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم migrated here and resided here.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ named it ‘Taabah’ [ طَابَہ ] (i.e. pure, clean and fragrant place).

Upon his return from a journey when the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would arrive to blessed Madinah, then due to the love of Madinah, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would increase the speed of his ride.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would feel heartfelt peace in Madinah.

Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: While the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was returning from the battle of Tabook, some companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who could not participate in battle of Tabook met him on the way. They flew the dust in the air. A person covered his nose. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم removed the cloth from his nose and said, ‘I swear by the One under Whose omnipotence my life is! ‘There is cure for every disease in the soil of Madinah.’ (Jami’-ul-Usool, vol. 9, pp. 297, Hadees 6962)

§ When a Muslim goes to Madinah with the intention to visit, then angels welcome him with the gifts of blessings. (Jazb-ul-Quloob, pp. 211)

لاکھوں قدسی ہیں کامِ خدمت پر

لاکھوں گِردِ مزار پھرتے ہیں

§ The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede for the person who dies in Madinah.

§ The space between the sacred Hujrah and the blessed Mimber is one of the gardens of Paradise.

§ To offer one Salah in Masjid-un-Nabawi is equal to 50,000 Salahs.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 176, Hadees, 1413)

§ The Raudah of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is situated in Madinah Munawwarah where 70 thousand angels humbly pay visit in the morning and evening every day.

ستر ہزار صبح ہیں ستر ہزار شام

یوں بندگیِ زلف و رخ آٹھوں پہر کی ہے

§ In Madinah, the blessed part of the land where the blessed body of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم rests is greater than every place including even the Holy Ka’bah, Bayt-ul-Ma’moor, ‘Arsh, Kursi and Paradise.

§ Dajjaal will not be able to enter Madinah Munawwarah.

§ The person who intends to cause harm to the dwellers of Madinah will be tormented.

§ ‘Jannat-tul-Baqi’ - the graveyard of Madinah - is greater than the graveyards of the entire world. More or less 10 thousand companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, family members of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, countless Tabi’een, saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and other fortunate Muslims have been laid to rest here. (‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 261, 262)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه having deep desire to gain a place in Baqi’-e-Pak, begs in the Divine court of the Rab of Holy Rasool for the sake of Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

مجھ کو بقیعِ پاک میں مدفن نصیب ہو

غوثُ الورٰی کا واسطہ یا ربِّ مُصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unique ways of visiting the blessed Raudah of Beloved Rasool

A unique way of our pious predecessors for visiting the blessed Raudah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that no matter how wealthy and affluent one is, he would feel spirituality and bliss considering him a servant of the court of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and he would regard every blessing as a Sadaqah of this blessed court as it is stated that during his stay in Madinah, Mahmood Ghaznavi was seen in the Masjid-un-Nabawi, dressed in the clothes of beggars with a water-bag hanging on his shoulder. He was serving the visitors of the Haram with water. A person asked him: Are you not the king of Ghazni? Which type of get-up have you adopted here? He responded, ‘Of course, I am the king of Ghazni but this is the court where even the kings are beggars.’ The person liked this reply very much.

After a little while, the same person saw the Egyptian king, coming in the royal awe-inspiring manner. Going near him, the person asked: You have come to Madinah in this royal awe-inspiring manner. Is it the way one should come here? The reply given by the Egyptian king is also worth being written in golden letters. The Egyptian king responded: ‘O questioner! Tell me who has bestowed this kingship upon me. Certainly, it is the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who has bestowed it upon me [by the Divinely-bestowed authority.] I have come here with royal crown and clothing so that the Bestower sees his bestowment with his own blessed eyes.’ (‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat ma’ Makkay Madinay ki Ziyaratayn, pp. 51)

10 Advantages of visiting the blessed Raudah

Muballigh-e-Islam, Shaykh Shu’ayb Harifeesh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that there are 10 miracles i.e., privileges for the visitors of the blessed Raudah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. He will be a high ranked person.

He will achieve his aim and objective.

His needs will be fulfilled.

He will be privileged to spend his donation.

He will remain safe and sound from destruction and devastation.

He will be free from defects and flaws.

His troubles will be eased.

He will be protected from calamities.

He will have a good return in Hereafter.

He will have blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 307 to 308)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would plead in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and have their wishes fulfilled. Imam-ul-‘Aarifeen, Sayyid Ahmad Kabeer Rifaa’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was deeply overwhelmed by great devotion to the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and in remembrance of Taybah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would even kiss the blessed doorstep of the blessed Raudah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spiritually if it was not possible physically, despite that, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always wait impatiently for the call from the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with heart and soul and w hen f ortune smiled on him, the waiting moments were over, he was called from the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he embarked on the blessed journey to Madinah Munawwarah with body and soul.

Upon reaching the blessed court, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presented some couplets full of reverence and devotion dedicating them to the Beloved Rasool

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The translation of those couplets is as follows: ‘When I was far away from your blessed court, I used to send my soul as my representative; it used to kiss your blessed threshold. Now I am physically present in your court; please reveal and stretch your blessed hand so that my lips may have the privilege of kissing it.’

It was the grace and benevolence of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that the beautiful couplets recited out of intense devotion were accepted in the blessed court and the blessed hand emerged from the luminous grave of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kissed the blessed hand.

یا رَبّ! تیرے مَحبوب کا جلوہ نظر آئے

اُس نُورِ مُجَسَّم کا سَراپا نظر آئے

اے کاش! کبھی ایسا بھی ہو خواب میں میرے

ہُوں جس کی غُلامی میں وہ آقا نظر آئے

تابِندہ مُقدّر کا سِتارہ نظر آئے

جب آنکھ کُھلے گُنبدِ خَضرا نظر آئے

جس در کا بنایا ہے گَدا مجھ کو الٰہی

اُس دَر پہ کبھی کاش! یہ منگتا نظر آئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would have privilege to visit Madinah and during this blessed journey, if they get into any trouble they would neither make complaint nor would go to any other person for help instead they would plead in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Sayyiduna Ibn-ul-Jala رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that I humbly visited Madinah Munawwarah where I remained hungry for a few times. I humbly

reached the blessed tomb of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and pleaded, ‘ اَنَا ضَيۡفُكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه ’ Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم I am your guest. Then I fell asleep. In my dream, I saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who bestowed a piece of bread upon me. I started eating it. I ate half of it in the state of dream. Then I woke up and found the remaining half in my hand. (Misbah-uz-Zalaam, pp. 61)

ہم بھکاری وہ کریم انکا خدا ان سے فَزُوں

اور نہ کہنا نہیں عادت رسولُ الله کی

1. Sayyiduna Shaykh Abul ‘Abbas Ahmad Bin Nafees رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: During my stay in Madinah Munawwarah, I once experienced extreme hunger. I humbly reached the blessed tomb of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and I pleaded, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I am hungry. Suddenly, I fell asleep. Meanwhile, someone awoke me and asked me to come with him. I agreed, so he took me to his house. Serving me with dates, butter and wheat bread, he said, ‘Eat until you are satiated because my blessed ancestor Sayyiduna Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded me to be hospitable to you. Come to me whenever you feel hunger in future.’ (Hujjatullahi-‘alal-‘Aalameen, pp. 573)

A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه describes the bestowals from the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in an extremely beautiful way in the following couplets:

لب وا ہیں آنکھیں بند ہیں پھیلی ہیں جھولیاں کتنے مزے کی بھیک ترے پاک در کی ہے

منگتا کا ہاتھ اٹھتے ہی داتا کی دَین تھی دُوری قبول و عرض میں بس ہاتھ بھر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 226, 228)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reward of patience during the visit to Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! During the blessed journey of Madinah, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to consider the troubles and hardship as a means of privilege for them. A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه enjoyed the privilege of going for Hajj in 1390 AH. In this regard, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, relating a faith-refreshing parable of the pilgrimage to Madinah Munawwarah: I slipped and fell over in Madinah Munawwarah, causing my right wrist bone to break; when the pain increased, I kissed the wrist and said: O the pain of Madinah! Stay in my heart as I have found you from the blessed court of the beloved.

تِرا دَرد میرا دَرماں تِرا غم مِری خوشی ہے مجھے دَرد دینے والے تری بندہ پَروَرِی ہے

Mufti Sahib further stated: The pain had relieved that time but my wrist did not work properly. I had the X-ray of my wrist after 17 days from the Royal Hospital; the X-ray report revealed that the wrist bone broke into two pieces which had much gap in between but I did not go under any medical treatment, then the hand gradually started working. Upon this, a doctor of Madinah Munawwarah named Doctor Isma’eel said that it was a real miracle because the hand would not move from the medical point of view. I have still got that X-ray with me; the bone is still broken; I am writing Tafseer (commentary) with this broken hand; the only treatment I took of my broken hand was that I stood at the blessed and sacred Raudah and humbly requested that Your Highness! My hand is broken; O the one who joined the broken shin of ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Ateek (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! O the one who joined the broken arm of Mu’aaz Bin ‘Afra (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! Please join my broken hand. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 9, pp. 388)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed the great Madani mindset of our pious predecessors that they would not only face the trials and tribulations with a cheerful appearance and a smiling face but would also consider these troubles a privilege for them as the abovementioned parable evidently illustrates that Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered a severe wrist bone fracture but instead of crying and wailing he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presumed the pain as a sign of reward for him on behalf of the blessed court of the Rasool of Rahmah

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and set an example of true patience and fortitude. Notice the heartfelt pleading made by Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his firm belief in the blessed court of Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that I have humbly presented my need in that blessed court where the beggars never hear the word ‘No’, where the patients are also bestowed with cure, where people suffering from trials and tribulations get prosperity, where the person who is granted once is not deprived the second time. Even if the wishes of a person have been fulfilled, he still pins his hopes on the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If only we would get aware how to properly ask the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the fulfilment of our needs.

Nevertheless, it was the speciality of these blessed figures that they accepted thorns on the way to Madinah Munawwarah as flowers. If only we are also privileged to have the Sadaqah of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and if only when on the journey to Madinah Munawwarah, we may attain its plentiful blessings as well as during this blessed journey may we become so much overwhelmed in the love of Madinah and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to such an extent that the trials and troubles become a source of attaining comfort, contentment and bliss, even salvation from the grief and sadness of the world becomes a source of forgiveness of our sins.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Warning to the one causing pain to inhabitants of Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! Another amazing and worth seeing uniqueness of our pious predecessors during the blessed journey is that when they would have privilege to visit the blessed Madinah, they would even show such an incredible devotion towards the animals of Madinah. It was not acceptable to them at all that anyone treats badly even towards the dogs of the sacred city of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Once a true lover of the Rasool and the renowned saint belonging to Punjab (Pakistan), Peer Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah Muhaddis ‘Ali Poori رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Madinah Munawwarah, one of his disciples hit a dog with a stone in Madinah Munawwarah; the dog screamed due to the pain. Somebody informed Peer Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that his so-and-so disciple had hit a dog of Madinah Munawwarah. Upon hearing this he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became restless and ordered his disciples to find the dog and bring that dog before him, hence the dog was brought before him. Then everyone witnessed the renowned saint of his time and Shaykh of millions of disciples, Peer Sayyid Jama’at ‘Ali Shah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood up and started talking to the dog, weeping: For Allah’s sake forgive this mistake of my disciple! O the inhabitant of Madinah Munawwarah! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then sent for roasted meat and milk and fed the dog, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to the dog: Jama’at ‘Ali makes an apology, for Allah’s sake accept his apology. (Sunni ‘Ulama ki Hikayaat, pp. 211)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Spend generously in Madinah Munawwarah

Another beautiful way of our pious predecessors is that they used to behave gracefully towards the locals of Madinah, plus spend generously on them. When Ameer-e-Millat, Peer Jama’at Shah Naqshbandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would approach Madinah, his blessed face would become radiant out of happiness and love and he would say: ‘Now it is a time to give away things amongst the locals in a fit of generosity, distribute with open heart . These people are the neighbours of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they deserve richly. We unite here to serve these people. This blessed occasion does not come up frequently.’

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself would give too much that people even get tired receiving a large amount of presents and gifts. In his blessed company, when the companions and fellows would also spend generously, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would become pleased too much. The more any fellow would spend, the more he would be appreciated by Peer Jama’at Shah Naqshbandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

and he would comment: ‘Don’t fear, spend generously, I can arrange a loan for you from here.’ (Seerat Ameer-e-Millat, pp. 123)

O pilgrim of Madinah! You also make intention to please the needy people of Madinah. Fulfilling the needs of Muslims brings about ease in world and Hereafter as it is stated in the following blessed Hadees as narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever provides the poor with comfort in the world, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will provide him with ease in the world and Hereafter. (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zikr, pp. 1447, Raqm 2699)

Obviously, those suffering intense destitution will be highly grieved and distressed, and the Du’a of the distressed is accepted. On page 111 of his book published under the name ‘ Fazaail-e-Du’a ’ by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has listed the types of people whose Du’as are accepted. The very first in this list is ‘a distressed person’ (i.e. one who is sad due to worries). Elaborating on this, Imam A h mad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has annotated in footnote on the same page: A Quranic Ayah also states that the Du’a of the grieved and the helpless is accepted.

اَمَّنْ یُّجِیْبُ الْمُضْطَرَّ اِذَا دَعَاهُ وَ یَكْشِفُ السُّوْٓءَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Or He Who answers the prayer of the helpless when he invokes Him and removes the evil.

(Part 20, Surah An-Naml, Ayah 62)

Therefore, whenever you pay a visit to blessed Madinah or whenever you get opportunity, help the needy and the helpless people and get yourself remembered in their prayers. Along with it, you will have immense goodness in this world too and it is hoped from the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that help of an oppressed person will bear fruit in the form of glad tiding of forgiveness for you, as mentioned in a beautiful Hadees:

A person, in the past, used to lend money to the people and instruct his slave, ‘When you go to a poor debtor, forgive him with the hope that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will

forgive us’, when he died Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgave him. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 470, Hadees 3480; Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 2, pp. 762)

Participate in the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! For helping the people suffering from troubles and crises, supporting the helpless and destitute people, developing virtuous deeds and for getting rid of bad deeds, call people towards righteousness, associating yourselves with Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part practically in 12 Madani activities.

One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘Madani Halqah after Salat-ul-Fajr’, which includes the recitation of three Quranic Ayahs along with translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and Tafseer (commentary) from Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan/Noor-ul-‘Irfan/Siraat-ul-Jinaan, followed by a Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat (4 pages) and the recitation of Shajarah Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah Ziyaiyyah ‘Attariyyah. This ‘Madani Halqah after Salat-ul-Fajr’ results in the enlivening of Masjids, provides with an opportunity to hear the blessed recitation of Holy Quran and in addition, various Madani pearls on different topics are attained. In blessed Ahadees, many virtues have been mentioned for reciting, teaching and learning the Holy Quran. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated (in Sahih Bukhari): ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٖ ’ ‘The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran, and teaches it to others.’

(Sahih Bukhari, Fadaail-ul-Quran, Hadees 5027)

Impressed with Madani Channel, 12 people embraced Islam

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a global and non-political movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami, has been serving Ummah by calling people towards righteousness, similarly, by the blessings of Madani activities and Madani Channel, a number of people entered into the fold of Islam. In this connection, let’s listen to a unique Madani parable:

A summary of the story told by a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) is as follows: He stated: On 2 nd Jumadal Ukhra 1432 AH, 6 May 2011, I met a green turban-wearing young man in Madinah Munawwarah

at around 4 pm. During conversation, the young man disclosed, ‘I am from Bombay (Hind). All of my 12 family members including me embraced Islam. Describing the reason of reverting to Islam, he said: My family members had recently started watching the Madani Channel of Dawat-e-Islami. We very much liked the Islamic appearance of the Muslims, their smiling faces and the simple manner of their speeches broadcast during the serials of the Madani Channel. Previously, we had extremely negative thoughts about Islam due to the misdeeds of non-practicing Muslims but we were gradually getting impressed with Islam by watching its real picture on the Madani Channel. Particularly, we were highly inspired by the motivation repeatedly being provided by the preachers of Dawat-e-Islami to keep the eyes lowered. Listening to the benefits of applying the ‘Madani guard’ to the eyes, we would get very delighted. My mother would say to all of us, ‘These people give the advice of keeping the eyes lowered even in this age of evils. One should keep the eyes lowered indeed.’

With the passage of time, we developed so much love for Islam by virtue of watching the serials of the Madani Channel that we even began talking about embracing Islam but we were afraid that people would oppose and criticize us. This fear of ours was also removed by the Madani Channel. Actually, the Nigran-e-Shura and preacher of Dawat-e-Islami Abu Haamid Muhammad Imran Attari سَلَّمَهُ الۡـبَارِی delivered a Sunnah-inspiring speech titled ‘ Log Kya Kahayn Gey ’ [i.e. What will People Say?]. Listening to it, all of us made up our mind not to care about people. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We recited the Kalimah, joining the fold of Islam.

The narrating preacher of Dawat-e-Islami has further stated: When the newly-reverted young Muslim was present near the Golden Grille along with us, he had overwhelming feelings and repeatedly made the following request, ‘O Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Bestow upon me the Madani guard of the eyes.’ Then, whilst under the shade of the grand Green Dome, he expressed his determination, ‘I would now try my best to bring other non-Muslims into the fold of Islam, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Did not ride an animal in Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! During visiting Madinah, another beautiful trait of our pious predecessors was that they used to show great respect and reverence towards this sacred city ‘Madinah’. Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I saw the horses of Khurasan or Egypt tied at the door of Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Madinah Munawwarah. I had never seen such superb horse breeds, therefore I said, ‘How fine are these horses!’ Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘I give all these horses to you as a gift.’ I asked, ‘Please keep at least one for yourself’. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘I feel shyness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to ride my horse over the sacred land beneath which the Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is resting.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 114)

ہاں ہاں رہِ مدینہ ہے غافل ذرا تو جاگ

او پاؤں رکھنے والے یہ جا چشم و سر کی ہے

Manners of appearing in the court of the Beloved Rasool

Dear Islamic brothers! There is no doubt, paying Salam to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم standing in Madinah Munawwarah before blessed Raudah is a great privilege. If only we could also witness such blessed moments in our lives but remember this too that whoever has privilege to visit this sacred place, it is necessary for him to take great care and show noble manners and humility when appearing in the blessed court of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; because a slightest carelessness can cause severe deprivation for him. Let’s listen to some manners and etiquettes of showing respect imparted by Sadr-ush-Shari’ah Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

Make the intention of purely beholding (Blessed Raudah) while appearing in the blessed court.

If Hajj is Fard, then you should come to Madinah Munawwarah after performing Hajj.

Continue reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and Zikr all the way.

§ When you approach the Haram-e-Madinah, it is better to walk while weeping, with head bowed down, lowered gaze, reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly and if possible walking bare foot.

§ Upon entering Masjid-un-Nabawi, pay your Salam and recite Salat, and hold for a while as if you are seeking permission from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Now devote complete attention towards the blessed Raudah with extreme humility, make a weeping face if you cannot weep.

§ With your back towards the Qiblah, stand, as you stand in Salah with both hands folded with utmost respect, at least two yards away facing the blessed face of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ During this, try your utmost to keep your heartfelt concentration towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ Do not waste even a single moment for as long as you are blessed with the stay in Madinah Munawwarah. If possible, spend most of your time in Masjid-un-Nabawi in the state of purity, offering Salah, reciting the Glorious Quran and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi . Worldly conversations should be avoided in any Masjid, especially in this holy Masjid.

§ How wonderful it would be for you to be blessed with keeping a Sawm in Madinah Munawwarah, especially on a hot summer day as intercession is promised to the one doing so!

§ Every good deed performed here is equivalent to fifty thousand good deeds. Therefore, make plenty of efforts to perform worship. Do reduce your intake. As long as possible, give charity especially to the deserving locals.

§ Whether you are in the city or in the suburbs, whenever you see the Grand Green Dome, turn towards it immediately and recite Salat and Salam with hands respectfully folded. Do not proceed without doing this as this is contrary to manners.

No one is allowed to turn his back towards the blessed Raudah and as far as possible avoid standing at such place or point in Salah which causes you to turn your back towards the blessed Raudah.

(Derived from Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 1222-to-1228)

زائرو پاسِ ادب رکھو ہوس جانے دو

آنکھیں اندھی ہوئی ہیں ان کو ترس جانے دو

Introduction of the book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat’

Dear Islamic brothers! For learning the amazing parables of true devotees about their journeys to Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah and for developing the deep yearning and eagerness for Madinah Munawwarah go through the remarkable book ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . This productive and very informative book contains 51 parables of visitors of Madinah Munawwarah, 12 parables of the highly renowned devotee and virtuous figure of Islamic history Sayyiduna Imam Maalik رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, 42 parables of pilgrims, 6 parables of pious women, 17 parables of distinguished scholars belonging to the Ahl-us-Sunnah, 7 parables of genies and 9 parables of animals which are full of wisdom as well as loads of other information have also been added. It is a Madani request to all Islamic brothers to obtain this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and also present it to others as a gift according to your capability. You can read it online free of cost from the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net) or you can download it and also print it out.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The spiritual life of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه reflects the Seerat (life history) of pious

predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Undoubtedly, he has gained such a lofty status of Ishq-e-Rasool (deep devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) that he is also rated amongst the top prominent devotees of Rasool. Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat is a perfect paradigm of ‘Aashiq-e-Madinah’ that when he is apparently away from Madinah, Zikr of Madinah and Zikr of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always remain on his lips and when there is a good news of blessed journey of Madinah for him from the court of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he experiences varying spiritual state, breaks down in flood of tears and appears to be a perfect role model of following blessed Na’at verses:

مدینے کا سَفَر ہے اور میں نَمدیدہ نَمدیدہ

جَبِیں اَفسُردہ اَفسُردہ بدن لَرزیدہ لَرزیدہ

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was privileged to embark on the journey of Hajj and Madinah Munawwarah many times. Whatever he experienced is not possible to mention as it was, however, let’s listen to a brief description of his journey to Madinah Munawwarah.

As the time for his departure to Madinah Munawwarah drew closer, the condition of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was absolutely changed and the atmosphere was phenomenally spiritual. He was a virtual picture of his following couplets:

آنسوؤں کی لَڑی بن رہی ہو اور آہوں سے پَھٹتا ہو سینہ

وردِ لَب ہو "مدینہ مدینہ" جب چَلے سُوئے طیبہ سفینہ

Everyone may not be able to comprehend this unique exhibition of true devotional love, because normally visitors of Madinah Munawwarah laugh and rejoice. He has endeavoured to develop the Madani mindset of such types of visitors of Madinah in his following couplet:

ارے زائرِ مدینہ! تُو خوشی سے ہنس رہا ہے!

دلِ غمزَدہ جو پاتا تو کچھ اَور بات ہوتی

As the destination drew closer, the intensity of his love was getting higher and higher and as soon as he reached the holy land of Madinah Munawwarah, he took off his shoes . اَلله اَلله! He is so deep in his devotional love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he himself elaborates this in his couplets:

پاؤں میں جُوتا ارے مَحبوب کا کُوچہ ہے یہ

ہوش کر تُو ہوش کر غافل! مدینہ آگیا

During Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s Hajj pilgrimage in 1406 AH, he suffered with a severe flu and had a constant runny nose. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه never blew his nose on the sacred land of Madinah Munawwarah. Each and every act of his in Madinah Munawwarah displayed his immense respect for the sacred city. Throughout his journey while in the blessed Madinah Munawwarah, he endeavoured his utmost not to turn his back towards the Grand Green Dome.

مدینہ اس لئے عطّارؔ جان و دل سے ہے پیارا

کہ رہتے ہیں مِرے آقا مِرے دِلبر مدینے میں

Sometimes, while walking through the beautiful streets of Madinah, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه would politely take the broom from the hands of the street cleaners and would sweep the streets of Madinah, himself. Longing for this very privilege, the saint and true devotee of the Rasool, the grand Mufti of India, Mustafa Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote:

خدا خیر سے لائے وہ دن بھی نوریؔ

مدینے کی گلیاں بہارا کروں میں

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us too, infinite yearning of Madinah by virtue of intense and deep devotion of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat for Madinah and grant us the blessed journey of Madinah again and again and enable us to visit the blessed Madinah with proper conduct and respect.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Having listened to the aforementioned blessed parables of our pious predecessors, it seems that their blessed journeys of Hajj were embodiment of respect and reverence. These blessed figures struggled hard to turn the most precious and sacred moments of visiting Madinah into full of blessings. If only, by virtue of these pious predecessors, we could also have privilege to visit Madinah with utmost respect and reverence as well as by the blessings of fragrant air of sacred Madinah, we may have privilege to attain modest gaze and get rid of spiritual diseases such as jealousy, pride, arrogance, showing off and backbiting etc.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us privilege to show respect and reverence to the sacred places.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard blessed parables pertaining to visiting Madinah, and about the blissful and pleasing ways of our pious predecessors adopted during their pilgrimage. Those going to Madinah are indeed incredibly fortunate:

§ The travel of Madinah is not any ordinary travel at all rather it is a highly blessed and spiritual journey.

§ Whenever our pious predecessors would have privilege to visit Madinah, these blessed figures would show utmost respect and reverence.

§ When they would experience any hardship or trouble, they would consider it to be a means of privilege for them.

§ Instead of curing illness etc., they would regard it as a great gift from the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ After landing that sacred soil, pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would avoid mounting even they would avoid wearing footwear.

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant us privilege to show utmost respect and reverence towards sacred city and enable us to visit Madinah with blessed Murshid again and again.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Madani pearls about applying oil and combing hair

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of applying oil and combing hair:

1. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Holy Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would often oil the blessed head and comb the blessed beard and often put the cloth over blessed head, even that cloth used to remain dampened with oil. (Ash-Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah, pp. 40,Hadees 32)

It has become obvious that the use of ‘Sarband [1] ’ is Sunnah, Islamic brothers should wear a small piece of cloth over their heads whenever they oil their heads, by this, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ cloth cap and turban will remain protected from the oiliness to a large extent.

Sayyiduna Naafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا used to oil [his hair] twice a day. (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 6, pp. 117)

Before applying the oil, recite ﴿ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ ﴾ and pour some oil onto the palm of left hand out of the bottle etc., then first oil the eyebrow of right eye, then of left eye, then eyelashes of right eye, then of left eye, and then oil hair. If oiling beard, begin with the hair grown between lower lip and chin.

Women must hide the hairs that fall while combing or washing, so that no stranger (i.e. the person to whom Nikah is not Haraam forever) could see them. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 449)

Begin with the right side while combing. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهَا has said: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم liked to begin doing everything with the right side even wearing shoes, combing, and attaining purity. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 81, Hadees 168)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the devotees of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہ ٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

