اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Evil Consequences of Lying

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited his brother Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was looking very happy and was saying: ‘I was privileged to see the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream tonight. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave me a container filled with water; I drank water to my fill and I can still feel its coolness.’ Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked, ‘How did you obtain this rank?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘By virtue of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in abundance.’ (Sa’adat-ud-Darayn, pp. 149)

دِیدار کی بِھیک کَب بٹے گی؟ منگتا ہے اُمّید وار آقا!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A person came in the court of Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘I want to bring Iman on you but I have four bad habits, (1) I drink alcohol. (2) I am an adulterer. (3) I am a thief. (4) I lie and don’t speak the truth. People comment that you consider these things forbidden whereas I do not have ability to abandon them, I can leave one for your sake, please give me an advice as to which of the four I should give up.’

The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised him not to lie. That man embraced Islam and made a commitment that he will always speak the truth. When he departed from the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he was offered alcohol, he thought, if I was questioned about it by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and I told a lie in response then it will be breaking of a promise and if I speak the truth, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will pronounce the prescribed sentence for sinning. Pondering over this, he refrained from it then he had an opportunity to commit adultery, an addiction which is hard to leave, but he managed to control it; he thought of stealing but at each urge, he pondered, if I commit the crimes and then lie about them, it will be a clear violation of my promise. In the morning, he rushed and submitted to the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that by not telling a lie, he was saved from all major sins, later, he sought forgiveness from all sins. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 167)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen! When a person showed a firm determination and conviction of not telling a lie, he refrained from many major sins. It is learnt that lying is the root of all evils and it is the worst of addictions. Whether it is committed through the tongue or action, it is judged either way. Lying means to tell something in a way that is contrary to the truth. [1] I.e., if you are asked whether you had attended the weekly congregation and in response you replied yes (though you did not), or it is asked whether you had eaten and in response it is replied yes, it is a lie because it is opposite to the truth. Lying is such an evil habit which is hated in every religion. Our Deen-e-Islam has laid a lot of emphasis to refrain from it.

The Glorious Quran has condemned it at many places and the liars deserve Divine curse.

It is stated in verse 30 of Surah Al-Hajj, part 17:

وَ اجۡتَنِبُوۡ ا قَوۡ لَ الزُّ وۡرِ ﴿ۙ۳۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And avoid false speech.

(Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, verse 30)

It is stated in verse 105 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14:

اِ نَّمَا یَفۡتَرِ ی الۡکَذِ بَ ا لَّذِیۡنَ

لَا یُؤۡ مِنُوۡ نَ بِاٰیٰتِ اللّٰہِ ۚ وَ اُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡکٰذِبُوۡنَ ﴿۱۰۵﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those who do not believe in Allah’s signs attribute lies and fabrications; and they themselves are liars.

(Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 105)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has said: ‘Lying and blaming are the jobs of dishonest people.’ (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, part 14, An-Nahl, Taht-al-Ayah 105)

Imam-ul-Mutakallimeen, ‘Allamah Imam Fakhruddin Muhammad Bin ‘Umar Razi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The abovementioned blessed verse is a concrete proof on this thing that lying is the greatest of the major sins and the worst of all the evils because only that person can dare to speak a lie and blame others who does not believe in the signs of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or that person who is a non-Muslim and the condemnation of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with such strict words is a severe warning from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 272)

نیکیوں میں دل لگے ہر دم بنا عاملِ سُنَّت اے نانائے حُسین!

جُھوٹ سے بُغض و حَسد سے ہم بچیں کیجئے رحمت اے نانائے حُسین!

Dear Islamic brothers! Ponder seriously! How the Quran condemns the liars and lying repeatedly and referring it to the hollowing of Iman and it also damages the inner-selves of liars; lying is such a devastating epidemic which keeps hollowing, undermining and crippling Iman as well as falling prey to this epidemic is also very unique as each time while lying the liar has the same thought ‘what big loss can it cause’ even though this evil brings loss in society and the liar is recorded by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as a ‘Kazzaab’ and enters into Hell.

Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Speaking the truth is a virtue and virtue leads to Jannah and lying is a sin, leading to Hell. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1405, Hadees 2607)

2. Undoubtedly, truthfulness leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Jannah and undoubtedly, the person who continues speaking the truth until he becomes a truthful person. Falsehood leads to sin and sin leads to Hell, and a man may continue speaking lies until he is recorded as a ‘Kazzaab’ (great liar) before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

3. A person came to the blessed court of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly asked: ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is that action which leads to Hell?’ The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘When a bondsman speaks a lie, he commits a sin and when he commits a sin he shows ingratitude and when he shows ingratitude he enters Hell.’ (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

ہائے نافرمانیاں بدکاریاں بے باکیاں آہ! نامے میں گناہوں کی بڑی بھرمار ہے

زِندگی کی شام ڈھلتی جارہی ہے ہائے نَفس! گرم روز و شَب گناہوں کا ہی بس بازار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed! How dangerous is the epidemic of lying and the one who always speaks lies is recorded as a great liar before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . None of us would like his name to be recorded in the list of criminals in the police station and if it does happen then our peace and our sleep are badly affected, so ponder seriously! If nobody likes to see his name registered in the list of criminals then it should also not be liked by any Muslim to see his name to be registered as a ‘Kazzaab’ (great liar) due to always speaking lies, similarly, if somebody knows that such and such a path is full of perils and one may endanger his life and possessions by travelling on that way then no wise and sane person will choose that path, but alas! We are so absorbed in improving our worldly life & worldly status but have no thoughts towards our Hereafter.

We know that lying leads to Hell but putting aside all dangers, we commit this evil. What a disgraceful state indeed it is that مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ liars have stopped considering this evil as an evil. Remember! Those who, for the sake of money, make others laugh by mocking others, relating imaginary dreams and entraining others as well as adding false titles with names in the lust of worldliness and honour. Remember! The torment of lying is unbearable after death; no one would be able to bear it at all.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘In my dream, a person came to me and requested, ‘Accompany me.’ I accompanied him, and I saw two people at a place, one of whom was standing and the second one was sitting. The one who was standing, had hooks made of steel in his hand, which he would put into one jaw of the man who was sitting and would pull them to rip up to his neck. He would then take them out, put them into the

other jaw and drag them in the same way. In the meantime, the first jaw would restore to normal condition. I asked the person who brought me, ‘What is this?’ He replied, ‘This person is a liar, and he will be punished in this way in the grave until the Day of Judgement.’

(Masawil Akhlaq lil-Kharaaiti, pp. 76, Hadees 131)

Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has mentioned, ‘It has been relayed to us that a liar will change into a dog in Hell; one who envies will change into a pig and a backbiter will change into a monkey.’ (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 194)

خَطاؤں کو میری مِٹا یا الٰہی! مجھے نیک خَصلت بنا یا الٰہی!

مجھے غیبت و چُغلی و بَدگمانی کی آفات سے تُو بچا یا الٰہی!

زبان اور آنکھوں کا قُفلِ مدینہ عطا ہو پئے مُصطَفٰے یا الٰہی!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The abovementioned narration is not only a lesson of warning for backbiters but it is a warning for liars as well. By telling a lie one may feel pride by attaining temporary success in this mortal life but he would be left with nothing in the grave and the Hereafter. Ponder over this seriously! If one cannot bear toothaches, then how would he bear the awful pain of splitting jaws? If one gets worried about itching and the swelling of a mosquito bite then how would he be able to face the torment of the grave? And sometimes the liar faces Divine justice just in the world.

Once, a man stole his cousin’s belongings. The owner caught the thief in the blessed Haram (in Makkah) and claimed for his belongings, but the thief responded, ‘You are lying’. The owner replied, ‘If it is so, then swear an oath.’ Listening to this, the thief swore (in front of the Holy Ka’bah) standing beside ‘Maqaam-e-Ibraheem’. Seeing this, the owner raised his hands for prayer

standing between ‘Rukn-e-Yamani’ and ‘Maqaam-e-Ibrahim’. After a short while, as soon as the owner started praying, the thief went insane and started screaming, ‘What has happened to me? And what has happened to the belongings? And what has happened to the owner?’

When this news was heard by Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ, the blessed grandfather of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came, collected the belongings, handed them over to the owner and went away; whereas the thief kept running, screaming, and crying, until he eventually fell off a mountain and ended up being eaten by wild animals.

(Akhbar Makkah lil-Azraqi, vol. 2, pp. 26)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Never tell a lie; never swear a false oath; and never steal anyone’s belongings; as all these evils bring destruction, not only in the worldly life but also in the afterlife.

In order to refrain from every kind of sin especially the evil of lying, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Remember! Company makes the man; a man with good company will have a good character and thoughts. If a sesame seed is placed in the petals of a rose, it gets the rosy colour and fragrance, in the same way, whoever finds the blessed company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool becomes a priceless diamond by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and shines with awesomeness. If we also want to get rid of lying, backbiting, tale-telling, watching movies, listening to songs and other such types of evils, take part in the 12 Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami immediately by associating yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, travel in a Madani Qafilah with the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to learn the Sunnah and Islamic teachings; in order to lead a successful life, fill out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily practicing Fikr-e-Madinah (Madani contemplation) and

submit it to the Zimmahdar (relevant representative of Dawat-e-Islami) of your locality on the first day of the Madani (Islamic) month as well as attend the weekly Madani Muzakarah and also motivate others to do so; keep watching the 100% pure Islamic channel ‘ Madani Channel’ and persuade others to watch it as well.

If you are privileged to engage in the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami with consistency, you will develop devotion towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, blessings of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would begin to shower upon you, have hatred to sins and you will have a mind-set of leading your life according to the Sunnah with practicing Fikr-e-Madinah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

ہمیں عالِموں اور بُزرگوں کے آداب سِکھاتا ہے ہر دَم سَدا مَدَنی ماحول

یہاں سُنّتیں سیکھنے کو مِلیں گی دِلائے گا خَوفِ خُدا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Whatever we do in this world, their consequences keep coming to us as well; if it is a righteous action, it would have a good outcome and if it is an evil action, it would bring evil. Since lying is an evil action, it produces evil. Sometimes falsehood apparently benefits us but it is followed by terrible consequences as a result of lying. If one does not face the evil consequences in this world, he will be seized in the grave and the Hereafter due to his evil doings. Let’s listen to various evils of lying mentioned in blessed Ahadees:

§ When a person speaks a lie, the angel moves a mile away from its foul smell. (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 392, Hadees 1979)

§ Telling a lie is the greatest treachery. (Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 381, Hadees 4971)

§ Lying is opposite to Iman.

(Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 1, pp. 22, Hadees 16)

§ Destruction is for the one who speaks lies to make people laugh.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 142, Hadees 2322)

§ Whoever lies in order to make people laugh, falls into Hell at a distance more than the distance between the sky and the earth.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 213, Hadees 4832)

§ A person’s face turns dark due to Lying. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 208,Hadees 4813)

§ Saying a false thing is a major sin. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 18, pp. 140, Hadees 213)

§ Telling a lie is one of the signs of a hypocrite. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 50, Hadees 106)

§ On the Day of Judgment, liars will be included amongst the most hated people in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 16, pp. 39, Hadees 44037)

میں فالتو باتوں سے رہوں دُور ہمیشہ چُپ رہنے کا الله سَلِیقہ تُو سکھا دے!

میں جُھوٹ نہ بولوں کبھی گالی نہ نِکالوں! الله مَرَض سے تُو گُناہوں کے شِفا دے!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed the devastating consequences of lying; so, the wise person is the one who sticks to the truth, abandoning the evil habit of lying. By speaking the truth, one would not only be excluded from warnings and punishments of lying but will also attain the virtues of speaking the truth.

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated:

1. Whoever becomes habitual of speaking the truth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him pious.

2. He will develop a habit of carrying out good deeds.

3. By the blessings of speaking the truth, he will remain pious and righteous until he dies.

4. He will refrain from all evils.

5. He who becomes truthful before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will have a safe end.

6. He remains safe from all kinds of torments.

7. He attains all kinds of rewards.

8. The people of the world recognise him to be truthful and righteous.

9. He has reverence and honour in the hearts of people.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 452)

10. Truth is such a Noor (light) which is a source of guidance for the truth speakers, the more Divine proximity they attain, the more Noor (light) they acquire. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 175)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how remarkable and great rewards will be blessed to the fortunate speakers of truth? Therefore, if we are also desirous of such an excellent and splendid reward, we would have to get used to always speaking the truth. Truly, where there is blessings in the Hereafter and bounties by speaking the truth, there is, sometimes, salvation from the worldly worries as well. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this connection and make up your mind and with a firm intention to make the truth a pivotal part of your conversations.

Sayyiduna Naafi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has mentioned: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا was once travelling with some of his companions. They stopped at a place and laid out a dining mat to have a meal. In the meantime, a shepherd arrived. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said to him, ‘Come and have some food.’ He replied, ‘I am fasting.’ Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah

Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said, ‘Are you observing (supererogatory) fast in this intense hot day even though you are herding goats in these mountains!’ He responded, ‘By Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! I am doing this to compensate for my previous days.’

Intending to test his piety, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا asked him, ‘Will you sell one of your goats to me? I will give you its price as well as its meat so that you can break your fast with it.’ He replied, ‘These goats do not belong to me. They belong to my owner.’ To test him further, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said, ‘You may say to your owner that a wolf took away one of the goats.’ The slave said, ‘Then where is Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? (i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is watching, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows the truth, and He will punish me for this).’ When Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُمَا returned to Madinah, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ bought the slave and the goats from his owner and then set him free as well as gifted the goats to him.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 329, Hadees 5291)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By telling the truth, one is honoured in the worldly life as well as in the afterlife. Always speak the truth and never tell a lie!

One day Hajjaj Bin Yusuf was getting a few prisoners killed; one prisoner stood up and said, ‘O leader! I have a right over you.’ ‘What is that?’ Hajjaj asked. The prisoner explained, ‘One day, such and such person was speaking ill of you and I defended you.’ Hajjaj asked, ‘Who is a witness of this incident?’ That prisoner requested to the others, ‘Whoever heard that conversation, give witness for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ Another prisoner stood up and said, ‘Yes! This incident took place in front of me.’

Hajjaj ordered to set the first prisoner free, then asked the prisoner who became a witness, ‘What stopped you from defending me like that prisoner?’ He replied truthfully, ‘What stopped me was an old enmity towards you in

my heart.’ Hajjaj Bin Yusuf ordered, ‘Set him free too, because he bravely spoke the truth .’ (Wafyaat-ul-A’yaan, vol. 1, pp. 211)

Dear Islamic brothers! The one who speaks the truth is always successful because pure gold does not fear the flame, he has always been in sheer benefit but alas! Today, the epidemic of lying has broken out in our society to a great extent. In short! Almost every person of our society whether it is a man or woman, rich or poor, minister or his advisor, officer or his subordinate everyone seems to be fallen prey to this epidemic. Unfortunately, this curse is applied even at those occasions where truth does not also bring about any worldly loss.

One of the disgraceful curses of it is lying to children. It has generally been observed that in order to comfort and calm children down, adults often make false promises which they do not keep like ‘ We will buy you a toy ’ or ‘ We will buy you a toy plane ’ etc. Similarly, in order to put fear into the hearts of children, parents often lie making statements like ‘ The bogeyman is coming ’ or ‘ Big Foot is outside ’ etc. Whoever has done this should sincerely repent for their actions. These types of false statements affect children morally and ethically and as a result, children become used to speaking lies by listening to it since their childhood. Those children who are brought up in this kind of environment tell lies in every second sentence, therefore, we should also not tell lies to children.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Aamir رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, ‘The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَ ـ لَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had arrived at our home. My mother said to me, ‘Come, I will give you something.’ Hearing this, the most Noble Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَ ـ لَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked her, ‘What do you intend to give?’ She said that she had intended to give him dates. Upon which the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَ ـ لَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘If you had not given anything, it would have been written down as a lie.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 387, Hadees 4991)

سچّی بات سِکھاتے یہ ہیں سِیدھی راہ چَلاتے یہ ہیں

اپنی بنی ہم آپ بگاڑیں کون بنائے بناتے یہ ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that lying to children is not permissible according to the Shari’ah, therefore, whoever has done this should immediately seek forgiveness and he should always cultivate the habit of speaking the truth. Refrain from lying and keep your children away from this epidemic. For this, go through the 40-page booklet ‘ Jhoota Chor ’ and translated into English as ‘ The Lying Thief ’ authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and also persuade your children to study it. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ soon they will get rid of lying.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have some honoured titles which refer to some significant positions or some distinctive degrees but by cheating and lying, these terms and titles are being used by such types of people who have nothing to do with these degrees, posts and designations and if somehow they have some connection to some extent, still they are not entitled to add these honoured terms and titles. Generally those kinds of people who know somewhat about medicines or have spent some time at a clinic, they not only regard themselves to be a ‘ Doctor ’ but love to be called as a Doctor though the word ‘ Doctor ’ refers to one who has studied to obtain that degree and it can only be used by that person who is also entitled to it. Besides that, using other titles in this way is a crime under the law and it is also considered as lying according to the Shari’ah.

Similarly, having gained some knowledge about herbs, some people like to be called and write ‘ Hakeem Sahib ’ to their names, though it is sheer falsehood and cheating. In the same way, this evil is so widespread in our societies that some lay people, having no knowledge about the Deen attempt to gain entry amongst the rank of the noble and honoured scholars, as the word ‘ Maulana ’ refers to learned people who have Deeni knowledge but it has widely been observed that completely ignorant and illiterate people not merely use the word ‘Maulana’ for themselves, but even do not hesitate to give themselves the title ‘ عَلَّامَه وَ فَهَّامَه ’ (Highly learned, highly discerning) etc., even though it is sheer falsehood and equivalent to receiving Divine retribution.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the worst and highly alarming epidemics rampant in our inner-selves is Hubb-e-Jaah (love for name, fame and glory). This urge and desire is the root of all evils and discords and sometimes it ruins one’s Deen, it is for the reason, it is a matter of great importance to refrain from this curse. The following warning of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is sufficient for a Muslim: ‘Two hungry wolves do not cause as much destruction to a herd of goats as much destruction that is caused by love for wealth and fame, to the religion of a Muslim.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

Through the abovementioned blessed Hadees, it is learnt that Hubb-e-Jaah is nothing but a total loss and destruction. Due to the evil of this epidemic, Sayyiduna Abu Nasr Bishr Haafi Marwazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I do not know any person who aspired for fame & glory and whose Deen is not ruined and he is not humiliated and disgraced. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 340)

Dear Islamic brothers! To have the desire for fame and glory is the most harmful epidemic and most of the victims are those who do not avoid changing themselves by getting the support of lying for gaining respect from the people. In the subcontinent (Pakistan and India), the word ‘ Sayyid ’ is

used for those whose genealogies have been traced to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In our societies, a non-Sayyid also likes to be called as ‘Saadaat’ for gaining awe, reverence and glory amongst the people though it is nothing but lies.

Remember! Declaring someone else to be one’s father other than one’s real father, or linking one’s lineage to a family other than one’s own is Haraam, it deprives him of Heaven and leads to Hell. Ahadees mention severe warnings against this:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Amr رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: If someone claims anybody else to be his father other than his own father, he would not even be able to smell the fragrance of Heaven, whereas its fragrance would be smelt from a distance of 500 years. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 52, Hadees 5)

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has warned, ‘If someone claims anyone to be his father whereas he knows that he is not his father, then Heaven is Haraam for him.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 6766)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said:

Dear Islamic brothers! There is a lesson here for people who claim to be the real father of their adopted children in order to avoid disappointing them. Sometimes, children live their entire lives believing their foster-fathers to be their real fathers. Hence they do not do Isal-e-Sawab or pray for their real fathers.

Remember! Even on necessary legal documents, ID cards, passports, wedding cards etc. writing one’s foster-father’s name instead of the real fathers is Haraam and leads to Hell. Divorcees and widows should not ruin their afterlife by keeping their children in the dark about their real fathers. It is not wrong for a child to call him (step-father) dad as long as everyone knows that he is not his ‘biological father’. However, if he shows this ‘dad’ to be his real father then he is a sinner and deserves Hell.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, Maulana ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی said: These days many people call themselves Siddeeqi, Farooqi, ‘Usmani, Sayyid! They should consider what a huge sandpit of sins they are stuck in. May our Merciful Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ make these people tread the straight path and make them repent from this Haraam deed leading to Hell. (Aameen) (Jahannam kay Khatrat, pp. 182)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is beyond any doubt that lying in our societies has gone viral, spreading like a virus, hardly any of our gatherings go without falsehood especially lying while joking is quite widespread. Conducting entertaining gatherings then making people laugh with excessive joking and fairy tales, similarly, spreading something false attributing it to individuals through social media is not regarded as a sin at all even though Satan is pleased by all these actions which leads one to Hell with his plans. Out of all the prevalent forms of lying, false testimony in the court is also one of them because it snatches the rights of people and dishonours them and it causes a dead-end in the social justice system.

The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: False testimony is equal to Shirk (ascribing partners to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 133)

Similarly, taking a false oath is also an extremely evil action; attaining success and progress by taking false oaths is regarded to be a great achievement in our societies and those who refrain from falsehood and remain truthful are considered as unwise and foolish and sometimes truthfulness is viewed as an obstacle in the way of success. It is for this reason that people do not hesitate to give false testimonies though it is a major sin. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Blessed and Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this connection:

1. There are three major sins: Associating partners with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, disobedience to parents, false oaths and killing somebody.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 295, Hadees 6675)

2. He who appropriated the right of a Muslim by swearing a false oath, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would make hellfire necessary for him and would declare Jannah forbidden for him. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked: O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even if it is something insignificant? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: (Yes) even if it is the frankincense. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 82, Raqm 137)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given the warning of entering the Hell for usurping other’s rights & possessions by taking false oaths? Besides the abovementioned forms of lying, falsehood is committed in some other situations, likewise relating a false dream, making false promises, spreading false rumours and celebrating April fool’s by telling lies etc. In short! Lying has been spreading rapidly in our society like a runny sore. Associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to refrain from all epidemics of our inner-selves and apply Qufl-e-Madinah (the spiritual lock of the tongue) to refrain from unnecessary talks, attend the Sunnah-inspiring weekly congregation regularly, act upon the Madani In’amaat and travel with a Madani Qafilah for three days, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will attain goodness of this world and the Hereafter.

Dear Islamic brothers! Lying is impermissible and a sinful act but there are some situations or conditions in which the Islamic Shari’ah permits a lie to be told in view of the purpose and need which carries no sin, nevertheless, if any purpose can be fulfilled by speaking the truth then lying for that will be a Haraam act. If any good purpose can be fulfilled by lying whereas it is impossible to be done while speaking the truth, now, in certain situations lying is also permissible, rather in certain situations it will become necessary, such as:

1. If any cruel person wants to kill an innocent person or wants to hurt him and that innocent person is hidden due to the fear of being killed; if the cruel man asks about his whereabouts, then even though the one who is questioned is aware of it but he can pretend to not know.

2. Or if somebody is entrusted with someone’s trust and the cruel person, with an evil intention, asks about that trust, he can refuse by pretending to have nothing. (Rad- dul - Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 705)

3. Similarly, if there is a rift between two Muslims and somebody wants to mediate, he can comment before an individual that he knows you very well and praises you or he has sent you Salam and commented in the same way in front of the second person so that enmity and hostility is removed and there is peace between both of them.

4. Even saying something untrue to your wife to make her happy (will also not be lying). (Al- Fatawa Al- Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard about the evil consequences of lying; undoubtedly, if one makes a firm determination not to speak lies, he can save himself from many sins with the blessings of speaking the truth. A liar will certainly be disgraced in the Hereafter but if his lie gets exposed in the world, he will also be humiliated in the world. When a person speaks a lie, the angel moves a mile away from its foul smell and he becomes the most hated person in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, we should make efforts to refrain from all sins while proclaiming war against lying. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the privilege to act upon this.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! ‘Law’ is the most important department of our society. There are more than 97 departments in which Dawat -e- Islami (a global non-political movement for the propagation of the Quran and Sunnah) is working.

Hundreds of thousands of lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have devoted themselves for the service of Deen under the platform of Dawat-e-Islami and the Islamic brothers attached with the profession of advocacy are calling people towards righteousness and associating people with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami with this spiritual aim: ‘ I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو

To serve the blessed Sunnah, take part in the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami with commitment. ‘Travelling with a Madani Qafilah’ for three days every month is also one of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

Dear Islamic brothers! The deep passion of learning ‘Ilm-e-Deen of the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is truly praiseworthy. We should also travel with a Madani Qafilah for three days. We would not only have the opportunity to learn ‘Ilm-e-Deen but will also earn rewards by calling towards righteousness. There are plenty of blessings of travelling with a Madani Qafilah. Let’s listen to a parable for our motivation:

In order to rid yourself from the habit of listening to backbiting and to develop a habit of offering Salah and practicing the Sunnah, keep yourself attached to the righteous Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and t ravel in the Madani Qafilah with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to learn the Sunan of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let me tell you the summary of an inspiring Madani incident of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, which an Islamic brother relayed to me. He narrated: I was unemployed and was also suffering from chronic joint pains. I was frustrated by the worries of my limited resources and troublesome joint pain. I tried to get some medical advice but was getting nowhere.

Inspired by an Islamic brother’s invitation, I set out with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in a Madani Qafilah to learn the Sunna h. By the blessings of the Sunna h-inspiring travel with the Madani Qafilah and the affectionate company of the lovers of the beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم my long-term joint pain was completely removed. The very next day after returning from the Madani Qafilah, I met an Islamic brother who found a job for me. All that happened b y the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At the time of relaying this incident of travelling with a Madani Qafilah, one year has passed and I still have my job and the pain has never bothered me again.

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before them.

3. Conversing loudly as if you are shouting, as friends freely do with each other these days, is not a Sunnah.

4. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a new-born baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

5. During conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears and the nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

6. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah .

7. Do not laugh while talking. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never laughed.

8. Excessive talking and frequent laughing affect one’s reputation.

9. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْه وَاٰله وَسَلَّم said, ‘When you see someone blessed with no interest in the world and (the attribute of) speaking less, adopt his nearness and company, as Hikmah (wisdom) is given to him.’ (Sunan Ibn -e- Majah, pp. 422, vol. 4, Hadees 4101)

10. A blessed Hadees says, ‘The one remaining silent received salvation.’

(Jami’ Tirmizi, pp. 225, vol. 4, Hadees 2509)

Mira- tul - Manajih states: Hujjat - ul -Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی states, ‘There are four kinds of conversations: (1) completely harmful, (2) completely beneficial, (3) either beneficial or harmful, (4) neither harmful nor beneficial. It is necessary to abstain from the completely harmful; do speak if the conversation is completely beneficial. If the conversation falls in the third category then be cautious. It is however, better to abstain from it; one should not waste time in this type of conversation. It is difficult to differentiate between the four types, so remaining silent is better.’ (Mira- tul - Manajih, pp. 464 vol. 6)

11. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

12. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam, and Heaven is Haraam on the one engaged in indecent speech.

(Kitab -us- Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Hadees . 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

