Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Don’t Hurt Your Parents

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ غَدًا رَاضِیا ً ، فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ Whoever likes this [thing] that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Al-Firdaus bima-Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Obeying parents

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, parents are a great blessing of Allah Almighty. Parents are a very big support in a person’s life. They are the ones who stand by a person in every affliction, problem, calamity, difficulty, and grief one may face. Allah Almighty blessed parents with a very exalted rank and status. You can get a gist of the rank, status, dignity and grandeur of parents from the fact that in the Holy Quran, Allah Almighty commanded to treat parents nicely after commanding to worship Him. Therefore, Allah Almighty states in part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayahs 23 to 25:

وَ قَضٰى رَبُّكَ اَلَّا تَعْبُدُوْۤا اِلَّاۤ اِیَّاهُ وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًاؕ-اِمَّا یَبْلُغَنَّ عِنْدَكَ الْكِبَرَ اَحَدُهُمَاۤ اَوْ كِلٰهُمَا فَلَا تَقُلْ لَّهُمَاۤ اُفٍّ وَّ لَا تَنْهَرْهُمَا وَ قُلْ لَّهُمَا قَوْلًا كَرِیْمًا(۲۳) وَ اخْفِضْ لَهُمَا جَنَاحَ الذُّلِّ مِنَ الرَّحْمَةِ وَ قُلْ رَّبِّ ارْحَمْهُمَا كَمَا رَبَّیٰنِیْ صَغِیْرًاؕ(۲۴) رَبُّكُمْ اَعْلَمُ بِمَا فِیْ نُفُوْسِكُمْؕ-اِنْ تَكُوْنُوْا صٰلِحِیْنَ فَاِنَّهٗ كَانَ لِلْاَوَّابِیْنَ غَفُوْرًا(۲۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And your Lord has commanded that do not worship anyone except Him, and treat parents with goodness; if one of them or both reach old age in front of you, so do not say (even) ‘Ugh’ to them and do not scold them, and speak to them words of respect. And spread for them the arm of humbleness with a soft heart, and request humbly that, ‘O my Lord! Have mercy on them both, just as they brought me up in my childhood.’ Your Lord is Well Aware of what is in your hearts. If you are righteous, then indeed He is Forgiving to those who repent.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states in relation to the aforementioned Ayahs: When parents become weak, their body parts are left with no power in them, and they are left weak with you in their last days the way you were powerless with them in your infancy; so do not utter any such thing from your tongue that would express them being a burden on you. Neither scold them nor speak loudly to them. Rather, speak to them with such great manners the

way a servant and a slave speaks to his master. Treat them gently and politely. Treat them with compassion and affection even when you are tired as they brought you up with affection at the time when you were powerless. Moreover, do not be stingy in buying them what they need. To cut the long story short, no matter how much we exaggerate in treating parents nicely and serving them in this world, we can never pay back the favour of our parents.

Allah Almighty says in part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 83:

وَ اِذْ اَخَذْنَا مِیْثَاقَ بَنِیْۤ اِسْرَآءِیْلَ لَا تَعْبُدُوْنَ اِلَّا اللّٰهَ  وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when We took a covenant from the Children of Israel; that worship no one but Allah, and be good to parents.

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 83)

Under this Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: After commanding to worship Him, Allah Almighty commanded to treat parents nicely. From this, we find out that serving parents is extremely important. Treating parents nicely means that one shall not utter or do any such thing that would hurt them. He shall not deny serving them physically and financially. He shall be there when they need him. If parents command him to leave Nawafil in order to serve them, then he shall leave Nawafil because serving them is superior to Nawafil. However, Fard and Wajib acts cannot be left upon the command of parents. Ways of treating parents nicely proven from Ahadees are as follows:

٭ One shall love them from the bottom of her heart.

٭ She shall speak respectful words to dignify them.

٭ She shall keep striving to please them.

٭ She shall not keep the best of her possessions away from them.

٭ She shall fulfil their wills after their demise.

٭ She shall perform Isal-e-Sawab [convey reward] through reciting Fatihah, giving Sadaqat [charity], and reciting the Glorious Quran.

٭ She shall supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty for their forgiveness.

٭ Another fact that is counted as treating parents nicely is that if they are indulged in sins or any sort of heresy, then one shall keep making the efforts of bringing them towards the right beliefs with politeness. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 28)

Dear Islamic sisters! These blessed Ayahs highlight the dignity, grandeur, rank and status of parents. Therefore, we shall appreciate our parents, remember their favours, avoid such things that would displease them, look after them in every way, treat them nicely, fulfil their permissible needs, and fulfil every permissible command of theirs. We shall look after them especially when they get old; because at that time, they are in need of most sympathy from their children because at that age, they don’t have strength in their body parts. They get afflicted with so many diseases and at such times, even their own blood relatives become strangers. The old age of parents puts a person into test and trial.

At times, parents get ill with various types of diseases in the old age. Due to this, children normally get fed up. However, remember! Serving parents in even such circumstances is mandatory. Therefore, no matter how irritable parents become due to their old age and diseases, no matter how much they argue and quarrel without any reason and stress you out, still you need to observe only patience and it is mandatory to respect and dignify them. Yes! This is the test. Let alone being rude to them or scolding them off etc., one shall not even say ‘ uff ’ in front of them. Otherwise, one can suffer a loss and become deserving of destruction in both worlds. As the one who hurts her parents’ feelings gets humiliated in this world as well as becomes deserving of the punishment in the Hereafter.

No obedience in the matters against the Shari’ah

If parents command you to perform something that is against the Shari’ah, then, in this case, Shari’ah has forbidden you to fulfil their command because

it is not permissible to disobey Allah Almighty in order to obey creation. Allah Almighty states in part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 8:

وَ وَصَّیْنَا الْاِنْسَانَ بِوَالِدَیْهِ حُسْنًاؕ-وَ اِنْ جَاهَدٰكَ لِتُشْرِكَ بِیْ مَا لَیْسَ لَكَ بِهٖ عِلْمٌ فَلَا تُطِعْهُمَاؕ-اِلَیَّ مَرْجِعُكُمْ فَاُنَبِّئُكُمْ بِمَا كُنْتُمْ تَعْمَلُوْنَ(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have emphasised upon man to show kindness towards his parents, and if they strive to make you ascribe a partner with Me about which you do not have any knowledge, then do not obey them. Only towards Me is your return so I will inform you of what you used to do. (Part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 8)

While mentioning the Shan-e-Nuzool of the revelation of this blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: This Ayah was revealed for Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . His mother was Hamnah Bint Abi Sufyan Bin Umayyah Bin ‘Abd-e-Shams. Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to treat his parents very nicely. When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam, his mother said: ‘What new thing have you done? By God! If you do not let it go, then I will neither eat nor drink, to the extent that I will die and you will remain humiliated forever and will be called the murderer of your mother.’

Then the old woman bore starvation. For one day, she did not eat, neither did she drink and nor did she sit in shade. Due to this, she became weak. Then she spent another day and night in the same very state. Then (Sayyiduna) Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to her and said: ‘O mother! Even you have a hundred lives and every single life ends one by one, I will still not leave my religion. It is up to you whether you eat or not.’ When she became disappointed from (Sayyiduna) Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he will not abandon his religion, then she started to eat and drink. Upon this, Allah Almighty revealed this Ayah and commanded to treat parents nicely and if they command you to commit Kufr [disbelief] and shirk [polytheism], then it shall not be obeyed. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 735; summarised)

What shall children do if parents fight with each other?

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: If parents have a fight, then one shall neither be on the side of the mother nor on the side of the father. It shall not be the case that out of the love for mother, one treats her father harshly. Hurting father’s feelings, answering him rudely, or talking to him disrespectfully by staring into his eyes are all Haraam acts and disobedience to Allah Almighty. It is not permissible at all for children to be on the side of one of the parent. Both of them are his Paradise and Hell. Whoever she hurts, she will be deserving of the hellfire. وَالْعِیَاذُ بِاللّٰہ (I seek Allah’s refuge).

Obeying someone in disobeying Allah Almighty is not permissible. For example, mother wants son to harm his father in any way. And in case the son does not agree to do so, i.e. he does not agree to be harsh to the father, then she gets displeased. Then he shall let his mother get displeased and not listen to her in this matter at all. Similarly, he shall not listen to his father if he wants him to do the same for his mother. How Islamic scholars have divided this is that the mother has priority in being served whereas dignity lies more for father as he is the master of even his mother. (Samundari Gumbad, pp. 21)

What if parents command to disobey Allah Almighty?

We come to know that if parents command to do something impermissible, then do not listen to them. If you obey them in impermissible things, then you will become a sinner. For example, parents instruct you to lie or leave Salah, then do not listen to them at all in these matters. No matter how displeased they get, you will not be considered to be disobedient. However, if you do listen to them, then you will definitely be disobedient to Allah Almighty. Similarly, if parents get divorced and mother insists so much and commands her children not to meet their father, then the children shall not obey this command. The children will have to meet the father as well as serve him; as, although the parents have been separated but the relationship with children remains as it was before. The rights of parents are still binding upon the children.

Blessed Ahadees in relation to treating parents nicely

Dear Islamic sisters! The way we have been emphasized in the Quranic Ayahs to treat our parents nicely, similarly, we have also been commanded in the blessed Ahadees to be kind to our parents and revere them. Therefore, we shall try our utmost to please our parents as the pleasure of Allah Almighty lies in their pleasure and the displeasure of Allah Almighty lies in their displeasure.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Pleasure of Allah Almighty lies in the pleasure of parents and displeasure of Allah Almighty lies in the displeasure of parents. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 177, Hadees 7830)

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that a person humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What right do parents have upon their children?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: (هُمَا جَنَّتُكَ وَ نَارُكَ) i.e. they both are your Paradise and Hell (i.e. you will attain Paradise by pleasing them and become deserving of Hell if you displease them). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 553; Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 186, Hadees 3662)

Paradise under the feet of mother

Sayyiduna Jaahimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I want to fight in the path of Allah Almighty and have come in your court to consult with you.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Do you have a mother?’ He replied ‘Yes.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ فَالْزَمْهَا فَاِنَّ الْجَنَّةَ تَحْتَ رِجْلَيْهَا ’ i.e. make serving her obligatory upon yourself because Paradise lies under her feet. (Nasa’ee, pp. 504, Hadees 3101)

Dear Islamic sisters! Du’as of parents are accepted in the favour of children. Keep them happy. Serve them immensely and get their Du’as. Their pleasure can be a means of protection of your faith and their displeasure can be a means of destruction of your faith. One who obeys parents always remains happy and prosperous. Wherever she may be in the world, she obtains the blessings of the Du’as of her parents.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page 6 to 7 of his booklet “ Oceanic Dome ”: Look at your parents with great sympathy and affection. How nice it is to look at parents with a merciful gaze! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When offspring look at their parents with a merciful gaze, Allah Almighty writes the reward of Hajj Mabroor (accepted Hajj) for every (such) sight.’ The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم asked, ‘Even if someone looks at them hundred times a day?’ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ نَعَمْ، اَللّٰہُ اَکْبَرُ وَاَطْیَبُ ’ yes, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the Greatest and the Atyab (the Purest).’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 186, Hadees 7856)

Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty has power over everything. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ can bestow as much reward as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is not helpless or powerless at all. So if someone looks at her parents with a merciful gaze one thousand times a day let alone hundred; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant her the reward of one thousand accepted Hajj.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Rights of parents cannot be repaid

Honestly speaking, there are loads of rights of parents and one cannot fulfil them duly. Therefore, one companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘There were such scorching stones on a path that if a piece of meat was placed over them, it would get cooked. I carried my mother on my shoulders and walked over them for six miles. Have I been free from the rights of my mother?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘The pain of contractions she went through while giving you birth, it perhaps would be the expiation for one of those contractions.’ (Al-Mu’jam-us-Sagheer, pp. 92, Hadees 257)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! What has happened to us? Which way are we heading towards? Way of our thinking has been completely changed. Respect and honour of parents is diminishing away from our hearts. Woe on such friendships and gatherings that distance us away from the feet of our parents. Now hold onto your hearts and listen to some admonitory accounts of the consequences of those who disobeyed their parents.

Punishment for disobeying mother

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Abu Awfa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: A person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘A young man is facing the time of his death. He has been persuaded to recite the Kalimah but he is unable to do so.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Did he not use to recite the Kalimah during his lifetime?’ People humbly said: ‘Why not. He definitely used to.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Then what has stopped him from reciting the Kalimah at the time of his death?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to that young man and said: ‘Young man! Say ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’.’ He humbly said: ‘I am unable to say this.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Why?’ He humbly said: ‘I was disobedient to my mother.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Is your mother alive?’ He humbly said: ‘Yes’.

(Therefore, his mother was brought in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to her: ‘Is he your son?’ She humbly said: ‘Yes.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘If a huge fire was lit and you were told that if you don’t get pleased with him, then this young man will be thrown into it. Then what would you do?’ She humbly said: ‘Then I will forgive him.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Then make Allah Almighty and us your witness and say that you are pleased with him.’ She humbly said: ‘I am pleased with my son.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to that young man: ‘Say ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’. He said ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’. Upon this, the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم glorified Allah Almighty in the following words: ‘ اَلْحَمْدُلِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ اَنْقَذَهُ بِیْ مِنَ النَّارِ ’ i.e. all praise is for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who saved him from fire for my sake. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 197, Hadees 7892)

May Allah Almighty also enable us to recite the blessed Kalimah at the time of our death.

Dreadful end of the one who used to beat his mother to please his wife

A young man’s kidneys stopped functioning. He was admitted into the hospital. His state was extremely bad. The process of his soul leaving his body started. Terrifying voices would be heard from his mouth and nose. The face would turn blue and the eyes would pop out. Two days passed in this very state. These terrifying voices turned into frightening screams. Patients of the ward started to run away. Therefore, he was shifted from that ward into another room that was at some distance from that ward. His father asked the doctor: ‘Give him a poisonous injection so that he may die. We cannot bear to see this state of his.’ When asked that what is the reason behind this terrible state of his? The father replied: ‘He used to beat his mother in order to please his wife and I used to stop him. It seems as if he is getting punished for it.’ Ah! Three days later, he passed away in the same very state.

It is the revenge of the same very action

Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: A person was beating his father at a place. People reproached him saying that ‘O unfortunate! What is this?’ Upon this, the father said: ‘Leave him because I also used to beat my father at the same very place. That’s why my son is also beating me at this very place. This is the revenge of the same very action. Do not reproach him.’ (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 69)

Dear Islamic sisters! We repent in the court of Allah Almighty and seek refuge in Him. Ah! How severe humiliation and dreadful punishment does hurting the feelings of parents lead to. We shall take a lot of care for our parents. When they call us, we should not delay replying to them without a lawful reason. Generally, people are heedless in this regard and do not even مَعَاذَ اللّٰہ consider delaying the reply to be anything bad.

Remember! Breaking your Salah just upon the call of your parents or grandparents is not permissible. However, if they are calling due to severe trouble, then one shall break her Salah. This ruling is for Fard Salah. If one is offering Nafl Salah and parents are aware of it, then one shall not break her Salah if they call her for something small. However, if parents are not aware of her offering (Nafl) Salah and then they call her, then she shall break her Salah and reply to them even if it is for something really small. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 638) (It is Wajib to offer that Nafl Salah again).

Those who hurt the feelings of their parents by ignoring them for nothing when they call them, become grave sinners and deserving of the punishment of [Hell] fire. Mother is a mother at the end of the day. At times, she can also unintentionally curse her children and if it is the moment of acceptance of Du’a, then children may face trial.

Leg severed due to mother’s curse

It is indeed quite difficult to be released of the responsibility of fulfilling the rights of parents. One will have to make constant efforts throughout her life fulfilling the rights of parents and always refraining from their displeasure. Those distressing their parents meet doom even in the world. ‘Allamah Kamaluddin Dameeri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has narrated: One leg of Zamakhshari (who was a renowned scholar of the Mu’tazili sect) was cut off. When asked by people about it, he disclosed that it was the consequence of the curse of his mother. Going into details, he said: In my childhood, I once caught a sparrow and tied a string to its leg. Coincidentally, it flew away from my hand and entered an opening of the wall but the string remained hanging out. Holding the string, I pulled it hard, and the sparrow came out of the opening writhing in severe pain. The leg of the poor sparrow was severed. Noticing this cruelty to the sparrow, my mother became very sad and cursed me with these words, ‘May your leg get cut as you have cut the leg of this bird that cannot even express its suffering.’

The matter was then ignored. After some period of time, I travelled to ‘Bukhara’ to gain religious knowledge. On the way, I fell down from my conveyance receiving severe injury to my leg. Having reached Bukhara, I underwent lots of treatments but nothing relieved the pain. Eventually,

my leg was cut off. (This way, the curse of the mother produced its effect). (Hayat-ul-Haywan-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 163)

Acting upon Madani In’amaat—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that a person displeasing her mother is made to face trials in this world. Therefore, we shall try to refrain from disobeying our parents, respect them wholeheartedly and strive our utmost to keep them pleased. In order to develop this Madani mindset, we shall associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and practically take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. how many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling out the blanks given in the booklet on the 1 st day of every Madani month.

Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, ‘ Jannat kay Talabgaraun kay liye Madani Guldastah ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make her effort to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani In’aam of making an individual effort distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month.

For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable:

Parable

Once there was an Islamic sister living at Tahseel Yazman (Bahawalpur, Punjab, Pakistan). Before being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami she was the victim of Satan that made the mortal things of this world very beautiful to her. An Islamic sister, who was educated through the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, made her realize to differentiate between good and bad. She also made her realize as to what things are good

my leg was cut off. (This way, the curse of the mother produced its effect). (Hayat-ul-Haywan-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 163)

Acting upon Madani In’amaat—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that a person displeasing her mother is made to face trials in this world. Therefore, we shall try to refrain from disobeying our parents, respect them wholeheartedly and strive our utmost to keep them pleased. In order to develop this Madani mindset, we shall associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and practically take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. how many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling out the blanks given in the booklet on the 1 st day of every Madani month.

Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, ‘ Jannat kay Talabgaraun kay liye Madani Guldastah ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make her effort to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani In’aam of making an individual effort distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month.

For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable:

Parable

Once there was an Islamic sister living at Tahseel Yazman (Bahawalpur, Punjab, Pakistan). Before being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami she was the victim of Satan that made the mortal things of this world very beautiful to her. An Islamic sister, who was educated through the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, made her realize to differentiate between good and bad. She also made her realize as to what things are good

who is unaware of the basic Islamic principles of bringing children up, non-practicing individual and deprived of the blessings of the good environment himself, how would he be able to bring his children up nicely? Perhaps, this is the very reason that the standards for bringing up children have become such that if the child does not do any work, takes a day off from school or observes laziness in this matter, if she does not agree to go to a certain function or wear a specific dress or shoes, or gives some reasoning not to do some worldly activity, then parents really take its notice. She is severely scolded over it. She is shouted at for hours for it. At the same time, if the same child misses her Salah, takes a day off from Madrasah or Jami’ah or goes there late, wanders around the whole night, watches films and dramas, listens to songs and music, adopts new and latest fashions, does not care about Halal and Haraam, consumes alcohol, gambles, lies, backbites, gives and takes bribery, adopts impermissible fashions, sits in the company of people with corrupt beliefs, wastes money in useless activities, in short, she is indulged in various types of evils, then let alone talking about them, the father does not even bother over them. It is also commonly observed that even if someone reforms them, then the parents say: ‘ She is still a child’, ‘she is naïve’, ‘she will gradually understand’, ‘you shall not be that harsh on the kids either’, etc.

The same child who is deprived of an Islamic upbringing, given extra love and leniency by the parents, when she becomes a means of disgrace for the parents, family and the society, then she stares in the eyes of the parents if they scold her or does not give her money, she shouts at the parents or even beats up parents. Then at that time, the parents recall the pieces of advice given to them by their well-wishers. Now the parents grieve over their child’s reformation, make Du’as and get others to make Du’as but all this goes in vain. It’s too late by then and they can do nothing except regret. Just due to slight carelessness of parents, a precious pearl gets wasted.

Let us listen to two admonitory parables regarding what a father faces due to not providing Madani upbringing to children and giving them too much love and leniency. Moreover, make the intention of providing your children with an Islamic upbringing.

Harm of not providing Islamic upbringing to children

A person said to his father: You wasted me in my childhood (by not providing me with an Islamic upbringing). Now I will waste you in your old age. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 1, pp. 292, Taht-al-Hadees, 311)

Although it was not right at all for him to say this to his father, but the father needs to contemplate over it.

When the childless person was blessed with offspring

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه writes in his book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’: A rich person did not have children. Someone suggested him that go to Makkah Mukarramah and make Du’a in Masjid-ul-Haraam by Maqaam-e-Ibraheem. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ your wish will come true.

So he did the same and Allah Almighty blessed him with a very cute son. He brought him up very affectionately. The only child received too much love over the need and was not provided with the right upbringing. Due to this, he started wandering around and became extravagant. The father realised it very late. He stopped giving money to his spoiled son. Due to this, he became against his father. The same very place where his father made Du’a for him, he also went there, i.e. to Makkah Mukarramah, and this unworthy son started making Du’as for the demise of his own father so that he gets the wealth of his father as heritage upon his death. (Nayki ki Da’wat, pp. 577)

Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness, spreading [the fragrance of] Sunnah and developing the devotion to pious saints in the hearts of people all over the world. Approximately 104 departments have been established in order to organize Madani activities all over the world. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’ has been established in order to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters, male and female students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madaris Al-Madinah practising and to persuade them to act upon Madani

In’amaat as per the wish of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Ameer Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: Would that besides performing other obligatory acts and Sunnahs all the Islamic brothers and sisters could also make these Madani In’amaat a part of their life and all responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate them (booklets of Madani In’amaat) in their Halqahs (areas)! Would that every Muslim could get the greatest gift of becoming the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Janna-tul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by acting upon these Madani In’amaat sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter! Let’s participate in virtuous activities actively. Not only should we act upon Madani In’amaat ourselves, but we should also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon them and earn huge reward.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of adorning oneself

Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of adorning oneself from page 78 of the book ‘ Sunnatayn aur Adaab ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah:

٭ It is Haraam for women to braid their hair with any other human hair. It has been cursed in a blessed Hadees. In fact, even the woman, who fixes braid made of human hair into other woman’s hair, is also cursed. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 614-615)

٭ If braid is made of woman’s own hair [that had been separated] and it is then attached to her hair, it is still impermissible. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 614-615)

٭ It is permissible for women to apply Mehndi [henna] to hands or feet. It is impermissible to apply henna to the hands and feet of younger children [boys]. There is no harm in applying henna to the hands and feet of children [girls]. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 599)

٭ As it is impermissible for men to imitate women, similarly, women are also prohibited to imitate men as Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم cursed feminine men who imitate women, and masculine women who imitate men. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 1, pp. 540, Hadees 2263)

٭ Women should adorn themselves with permissible things for their husbands, but within the four walls of their home. They should not go out of home after adorning themselves, as the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has stated: Woman is ‘Awrat from top to bottom (i.e. something to be concealed). When a woman comes out, the Satan stares at her. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi vol. 2, pp. 392, Hadees 1176)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

