اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Protection of Faith

(Shab-e-Qadr Bayan)

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰى عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً لَمْ تَزَل ِ الْمَلَائِكَةُ تُصَلِّی عَلَيْهِ مَا صَلّٰى عَلَیَّ فَلْيُقِلَّ عَبْدٌ مِنْ ذٰلِكَ اَوْ لِيُكْثِرْ

i.e. The one who sends Durood upon me, so until he keeps sending it, angels keep supplicating for mercy for him. Now it is up to the person whether he recites it more or less. (Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 5, pp. 324, Hadees 15680)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in today’s speech, we will be privileged to listen to the parables and narrations full of admonition and advice in relation to the “protection of faith” . Let’s first of all listen to a faith refreshing parable.

Maid of Pharaoh’s daughter

It is narrated that Pharaoh’s daughter appointed a pious devout woman as her maid. The pious woman would serve her day and night as per her capability. One day, the pious woman was combing Pharaoh’s daughter’s hair. While doing so, she dropped the comb and unintentionally uttered “(سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ)” loudly.

When the non-Muslim daughter of Pharaoh heard this, she said: ‘Did you praise my father Pharaoh?’ The believer woman replied: ‘No! In fact, I have glorified the Lord Who has created me, your father Pharaoh and the entire universe. Only He (وَحْدَہٗ لَاشَرِیْک) is deserving to be worshipped.’

Listening to the faithful conversation of the believer woman, Pharaoh’s daughter said: ‘I will tell my father about you that you do not accept him as god.’ The woman replied: ‘No worries. You may tell him.’

Therefore, she told her father Pharaoh everything about that woman. Listening to this, he called the pious believer woman and said: ‘I have heard that you believe in God other than me. Your safety lies in the fact that you abandon that new religion and worship me. Accept me as your god. Otherwise, you will be subjected to horrible punishment.’ The woman replied: ‘Do whatever you want. I will never commit Kufr (disbelief).’

Such faith-enlightening speech of that pious woman severely enraged Pharaoh. He ordered for oil to boil in a copper cauldron (a huge round metal pot). When the oil started to boil, her son was thrown into the boiling oil. Within a few moments, her son’s bones were flowing in the oil. Tyrant Pharaoh said to the woman: ‘Do you accept me to be god?’ The woman replied: ‘Not at all. My Lord is the One Who is the Owner of all the worlds.’ One by one, Pharaoh threw all her children into the boiling oil; but the courageous, patient and thankful woman did not abandon her faith.

When Pharaoh saw that she is not willing to come towards Kufr (disbelief), then the tyrant Pharaoh ordered his guards: ‘Throw her too in the oil like her children.’ When Pharaoh’s guards were taking her to the cauldron, then Pharaoh said: ‘Tell me if you have any last wish.’ She said: ‘Yes! I have one wish. If possible, when I am put into the cauldron with boiling oil in it and when all my flesh will burn, then send this cauldron at the door of the city. My hut is situated there. Place this cauldron in it and demolish the hut so that our house becomes our graveyard.’ Pharaoh said: ‘OK. Fulfilling this wish of yours is on me.’ Thereafter, the courageous believer woman was thrown into the boiling oil. Little while later, her bones also started flowing on the surface of oil.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: “On Shab-e-Mi’raaj, I came across a very pleasant fragrance. I asked: ‘O Jibraeel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم)! What is this fragrance?’ He (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم) replied: ‘This is the fragrance of the maid of Pharaoh’s daughter and her children.’”

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 10, Hadees 37834) (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, Part. 2, pp. 141 - 142)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that how firm was the Iman (faith) of that believing, patient and thankful woman. She saw her beloved children being martyred in front of her one after the other but still did not let go of her patience. Along with her children, she sacrificed her own life too but did not let go of the treasure of Iman [faith] she possessed.

Those who know the value of Iman indeed don’t let go of Iman even for a moment at any cost. They relish sacrificing their heads for the sake of Islam and Iman. They love sacrificing their life in the path of Allah Almighty. Their Iman is so firm and strong that no power in the world can make them abandon their Iman. This is the reason why Allah Almighty showers mercies and blessings upon such righteous people. Fragrance emanates from their graves even after their demise.

Alas! Millions of regrets! It has become very difficult to remain steadfast on Iman in today’s day and age. Some foolish people mark themselves as non-Muslims on the visa application form out of the greed of going abroad and earning money. Hence, they make themselves deserving of the Hell.

While mentioning ruling for such kind of people, Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ states in his book “ Kufriyah Kalimat kay baray may suwal jawab ”: ‘(Doing so,) it is Kufr. There is the ruling of Kufr for all those who mark themselves as non-Muslims in order to get their debt repaid, for their poverty to be removed, for an increase in wealth, to get a job at a non-Muslim place, on the visa application form or to get any kind of monetary discount.’ (Kufriyah Kalimat kay baray may suwal jawab, pp. 453)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Islam is an extremely eminent and dignified religion. Those who are blessed by Allah Almighty are blessed with the wealth of Iman in this world. Moreover, those fortunate people who remain steadfast on Iman remain privileged in both worlds. Therefore, it is necessary and vital for every Muslim to protect this blessing (of Iman) and remain steadfast upon it while realising its value. Because staying steadfast on Iman while leaving this world holds a lot of importance for a Muslim.

If one dies with Iman, then all the stages of the grave and Hereafter will be easy. Dying with Iman is the only thing that becomes a means of salvation in the Hereafter. No matter how many virtuous actions one performs in this world, if he does not pass away with Iman, then none of his righteous deeds will be of any use to him. It has been stated in a blessed Hadees: اِنَّمَا الْاَعْمَالُ بِالْخَوَاتِیْمِ i.e. ‘actions are dependent upon the end.’

(Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 6607)

In relation to the importance of the protection of Iman, Allah Almighty states in part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah no. 30:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ قَالُوْا رَبُّنَا اللّٰهُ ثُمَّ اسْتَقَامُوْا تَتَنَزَّلُ عَلَیْهِمُ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ اَلَّا تَخَافُوْا وَ لَا تَحْزَنُوْا وَ اَبْشِرُوْا بِالْجَنَّةِ الَّتِیْ كُنْتُمْ تُوْعَدُوْنَ(۳۰)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: Indeed those who said, ‘Allah is our Lord,’ then remained firm upon it; the angels descend upon them, (saying), ‘Do not fear, nor grieve, and be happy for the Paradise which you were promised.’

(Part 24, Surah Ha-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah 30)

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Undoubtedly, those who admitted Allah Almighty to be the Lord and admitted to His Oneness saying that our Lord is only Allah Almighty and then remained steadfast upon fulfilling the requirements of their claim, then angels descend upon them from Allah Almighty. They give them the glad tidings and say, ‘do not feel fear of the matters of the Hereafter, and do not grieve over your households etc., that you have left behind. And be pleased of the Paradise that was promised to you in the world through the sacred tongues of the Prophets of Allah Almighty. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 8, pp. 252-255) (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 8, pp. 631)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Persuasion of being steadfast in Islam

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know that steadfastness on Islam is very important. If we meet our end with Iman, then salvation is our destiny. To the extent that the glad tidings of Paradise has been given to those who remain firm on Islam and act upon the commandments of the Holy Quran. Not only this, leaving this world in the state of Iman has also been commanded in the Holy Quran.

Allah Almighty states in part 4, Surah Aal-e-Imran, Ayah No. 102:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ حَقَّ تُقٰتِهٖ وَ لَا تَمُوْتُنَّ اِلَّا وَ اَنْتُمْ مُّسْلِمُوْنَ(۱۰۲)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: O believers! Fear Allah as He should be rightfully feared, and never die but as Muslims. (Part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran Ayah 102)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the last part of the verse, it has been stated that and never die but as Muslims . It means that try your best to stay on Islam in every moment of your life so that when you pass away, you pass away on Islam. (Siraat-ul-Jinan, vol. 2, pp. 20)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Importance of Iman (faith) in the light of Hadees

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall always worry for the protection of our Iman (faith) . We shall try to safeguard ourselves against the deceptions and whispers of Satan and Nafs. Remember! The way glad tidings of Jannah has been mentioned in the Holy Quran for those who remain steadfast on Iman, similarly, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also mentioned the importance and command of protecting our Iman in blessed Ahadees. For persuasion, let’s listen to blessed Ahadees in relation to the protection of Iman.

Worry for the protection of Iman

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Soon such a time will come upon people where it will be necessary to adopt seclusion. At that time, only that person’s Iman will remain safe who would run from one mountain to the other or one place to the other out of the worry for the protection of his Iman, the way a bird or a fox keep migrating from one place to the other with their babies. Then, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: In that era, that goat grazing

shepherd will be better off who would offer Salah according to his knowledge, pay Zakah and will stay secluded from people.

(Al-Mataalib-ul-‘Aaliyah, vol. 8, pp. 597, Hadees 4366)

A Person will be resurrected upon what he dies

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: یُبْعَثُ کُلُّ عَبْدٍ عَلٰی مَا مَاتَ عَلَیْہِ i.e. ‘Every person will be raised in the same state as he dies in.’ (Muslim, pp. 1178, Hadees 2878)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states under this blessed Hadees: i.e. It is the end that matters. If somebody dies on Kufr (disbelief), then he will be raised on Kufr even if he was a believer during his lifetime. And if he passes away on Iman, then he will be raised on Iman even if he stayed upon Kufr during his lifetime. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 7, pp. 153 with amendment)

‘Allamah Abdul Rauf Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states under this Hadees: Sayyiduna Imam Jalal-ud-Deen Suyuti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has deduced from this Hadees that a flute player will be raised with his flute on the Day of Judgement, a drunkard with his (Haraam) beverage, whereas a Mu`azzin will be raised whilst calling out Azaan. (At-Tayseer, vol. 2, pp. 507)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know from the aforementioned Ahadees that we shall not be lazy in regard to the protection of our Iman. Moreover, we shall not carry vain hopes thinking that we were born as Muslims, our parents, grandparents and the whole family were Muslims, hence, we are also Muslims and will die as Muslims too. It is possible that we remain steadfast on Iman all our life, perform virtuous deeds abundantly, but معاذاللّٰہ utter a sentence of Kufr before our death and are deprived of having an end on Iman. Therefore, we shall always supplicate for steadfastness over our Iman and worry for the protection of Iman at the time of death.

The blessed scholars state: ‘The one who does not fear his Iman being snatched away during his lifetime, there is a great risk for his Iman to be snatched away at the time of his death. (Malfozaat-e-A’la Hazrat, pp. 495)

Alas! Our majority does not have the worry for the protection of Iman nowadays. If we do worry, it is to increase our bank balance. If we do worry, it is to surpass each other in the worldly matters. If we do worry, it is to earn respect and fame. Whereas, none of us has the guarantee over the fact whether our Iman will remain intact at the time of our death or not. معاذاللّٰہ, what will we do if our Iman is taken away due to the curse of sins?

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: By Allah! No one can be assured of the fact whether his Iman will remain intact or not at the time of his death. (Keemya-e-Sa’adat, vol. 2, pp. 825)

Satan in the shape of friends

Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When the state of the soul’s departure overcomes a person, then Satan comes to him along with his pupils in the shapes of his deceased relatives such as his parents, siblings, friends etc. Satan says to him: ‘O so and so! You will soon die, whereas we have already tasted death before you. Therefore, adopt such and such religion (leaving Islam) as that is the only religion that is accepted in the court of Allah Almighty.’ If the dying person does not accept to what he says, then Satan and his pupils come to him in the shape of his other friends and say: ‘Accept such and such religion (leaving Islam).’

This way, they make him recall the beliefs of all the religions. So at that moment, whosoever has deviation from Iman written in his fate, falls astray and ends up adopting the false religion.

(Majmu’ah Rasa`il-ul-Imam-ul-Ghazali, pp, 511, Summarised)

اَللّٰھُمَّ اَجِرۡنِیۡ مِنَ النَّار O Allah Almighty! Grant me salvation from the fire of Hell.

یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation

بِرَحۡمَتِکَ یَآاَرۡحَمَ الرّٰحِمِیۡنَ Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the most merciful.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that how severe is the time of one’s death. One loses his breath at that time. He loses his consciousness. The severity of thirst is at its peak at that time. During such severe times, Satan the accursed does not come in his original form along with his pupils, but does so in the shape of one’s loved ones, parents, siblings and friends. By doing so, he spreads his curse, plays around very dangerously with the Iman of people and tries different tactics to take one’s Iman away.

Our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would severely grieve over the fact of keeping Iman safe at the time of death.

Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin ‘Ammar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘When a person’s time of death approaches, then the dying person’s state is of five sorts:

1. Wealth is for his heirs

2. Soul is for the angel of death

3. Flesh is for the insects

4. Bones are for the soil

5. Virtuous deeds are for those who demand their right on the Day of Judgement.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further states: Heirs taking the wealth is bearable. Similarly, it is fine if the angel of death takes the soul away. But may it not be the case

that Satan takes away Iman at the time of death. Otherwise, we will get separated from Allah Almighty. We seek Allah’s refuge from this. Because if we gather all the separations on one side and keep the separation of Allah Almighty on the other, then this (Separation from Allah Almighty) would overweigh all the separations and no one can bear this.

(Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn, pp. 37, Summarised)

Dear Islamic brothers! If mercy and grace of Allah Almighty and that of His beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم do not stay with us at the time of our death due to the curse of our sins, if Satan the accursed dominates us and معاذاللّٰہ our Iman gets destroyed, then by Allah! We will be destined to face disgrace and humiliation. After our death, we will be thrown in the blazing fire of Hell forever. Moreover, the torment of the Hell will be so severe that our delicate bodies will not be able to endure it.

Allah Almighty says in Part 16, Surah Al-Kahf, ayah No. 105 to 107:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ الَّذِیْنَ كَفَرُوْا بِاٰیٰتِ رَبِّهِمْ وَ لِقَآىٕهٖ فَحَبِطَتْ اَعْمَالُهُمْ فَلَا نُقِیْمُ لَهُمْ یَوْمَ الْقِیٰمَةِ وَزْنًا(۱۰۵) ذٰلِكَ جَزَآؤُهُمْ جَهَنَّمُ بِمَا كَفَرُوْا وَ اتَّخَذُوْۤا اٰیٰتِیْ وَ رُسُلِیْ هُزُوًا(۱۰۶) اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ عَمِلُوا الصّٰلِحٰتِ كَانَتْ لَهُمْ جَنّٰتُ الْفِرْدَوْسِ نُزُلًاۙ(۱۰۷)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: These are the people who disbelieved in the verses of their Lord and meeting Him, therefore all their deeds are in vain, We shall therefore not establish any weight (of good deeds) for them on the Day of Resurrection. This is their recompense, the Hell; because they disbelieved and made a mockery of My Verses and My Messengers. Indeed those who believed and did good deeds, Gardens of Firdaus (Paradise) are (for) their hospitality.

The commentary that is mentioned in “Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan” in relation to these sacred verses, let’s listen to its summary in the form of Madani pearls.

٭ ‘Not establishing any weight’ means that on the Day of Judgement, their apparent righteous deeds will not hold any value nor will they carry any weight.

٭ When their apparent righteous deeds will be weighed against their sins and Kufr [disbelief] on the scale, then all the apparent righteous deeds will prove to be weightless.

٭ Value and weight of righteous deeds depend upon Iman and sincerity.

٭ When these people are void of Iman and sincerity, then how would their deeds have any weight?

٭ There will also be some Muslims who will be deprived of weight in their righteous deeds.

٭ The worst form of Kufr is to disrespect and mock a Nabi. One gets its punishment in this world as well as in the Hereafter.

٭ Those people are in a dire need of taking heed from this who mock the rightly guided scholars on media and in their personal gatherings.

٭ The blessings that Allah Almighty has for the Heaven-dwellers are way more than the human perception. (Tafseer-e-Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 6, pp. 37 to 40)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Righteous predecessors and worry for Iman

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, fortunate is that Muslim who remains engaged all his life in those actions that bring about the pleasure of Allah Almighty and succeeds in keeping his Iman intact at the time of his death. Therefore, everyone should remain cautious in regards to the protection of his Iman.

Especially those Muslims who offer Salah and observe Siyam regularly, give sadaqah, perform Nafl worship and remain engaged in other forms of

virtuous actions, at times, Satan deceives them to make them heedless of the protection of their Iman by whispering things like ‘you have performed a lot of virtuous deeds. Now stop performing them. Your virtuous deeds are enough for you to be forgiven and for you to enjoy the blessings of Paradise.’ If such thought ever comes to your mind, then remove it straightaway. Never rely on your [acts of] worship. In order to uproot this whisper from your mind, think about the weeping of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, the fear of Allah Almighty they possessed and their parables regarding protecting their Iman. Those righteous individuals would remain worried regarding the protection of their Iman despite worshipping day and night.

When the time of death of Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ approached, then he cried and signs of severe anxiety were apparent from him. People inquired the reason for crying. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘I am not crying due to leaving this world because death is dearer to me. Rather, I am crying thinking whether I am leaving this world while Allah Almighty is pleased with me or displeased? (Asad-ul-Ghabah, vol. 1, pp. 574)

Protection of Iman and seclusion

It is narrated that a person used to stay secluded from everyone. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to him and asked him the reason for this. Upon this, he said: ‘This fear has dominated my heart that may it not be the case that my Iman is snatched away and I don’t even get to know about it.’

(Qoot-ul-Quloob, vol. 1, pp. 388)

Would cry the entire night

Sayyiduna Yusuf Bin Asbaat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I once went to Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept weeping the entire night. I asked him: ‘Are you crying due to the fear of sins?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه picked up a piece of straw and said: ‘Sins hold less value than even this piece of straw in the court of Allah Almighty. What I fear is lest the treasure of Iman gets snatched away. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 155)

Give me death with Iman

At the time of the death of Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, when his son inquired after his health, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘This is not the time for answer. Just do Du’a that Allah Almighty makes me face death with Iman. Because Satan the accursed is pouring over soil on his head and is saying to me that you leaving this world in the state of Iman is a means of distress and sorrow for me. And I am saying to him that not yet, until even one breath remains, I am still in danger. I cannot be safe (from you). (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 199)

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that what great level of Allah’s fear our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی possessed. Their entire life was spent according to Shari’ah and Sunnah. Every moment of theirs was spent in the remembrance of Allah Almighty. These sacred individuals were true devotees of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they were well aware of the deceptions of Satan and Nafs. But despite this, they would remain fear-stricken in regards to the protection of their Iman. They would tremble with the fear of losing their Iman and would remain steadfast upon Islam while keeping in view the blessed teachings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, we shall also fear the hidden plan of Allah Almighty while acting upon the Seerah of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, blessed Sahabah عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ and the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and enlighten the passion of protecting our Iman in our hearts. Moreover, we should get ready to perform righteous actions with steadfastness and supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty that He saves us from a bad end.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Actions that destroy Iman

O devotees of Rasool! Along with being dependent upon the mercy of Allah Almighty, protection of Iman is also under a person’s control. Therefore, a person should supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty for the protection of his Iman. One should refrain from sins and engage himself in virtuous deeds.

If we want to keep our Iman intact at the time of departing from this world, then we will have to refrain from all those actions that serve as the cause of destroying one’s Iman. We will have to refrain from all those actions due to which, a person gets deprived of this great treasure. Let’s listen about some of the actions that serve as the cause of destroying one’s Iman. Alongside it, let’s also make the intention that we will try our utmost to refrain from such evil actions that become a cause for the destruction of Iman. May Allah Almighty keep our Iman safe. Let’s hear about some of the actions that could destroy one’s Iman.

1.Adopting bad company

Dear Islamic brothers, adopting bad company and hanging around with the people of corrupt beliefs can be harmful for one’s Iman. The way it is destructive to hang around with drunkards, gamblers and transgressors, similarly, keeping up ties with the people of corrupt beliefs, listening to their speeches, reading their books, listening to their audio and video speeches or sharing them to others through social media, eating with them or establishing relationships with them can also be fatal for one’s Iman. Moreover, it is a cause of severe destruction of one’s dunya (world) and the Hereafter.

Therefore, it is very important to keep a good company and hang around with those who possess the fear of Allah Almighty. But alas! Some unwise Muslims are becoming used to hanging around with bad friends, spending hours chatting to them, messing around with them and being involved in non-serious activities with them. The curse of evil company has dominated them such that every moment of theirs is being spent in heedlessness from the remembrance of Allah Almighty.

They miss their Salah but have no concern over it. They spend hours in those useless gatherings but they don’t care about it. They carry useless and obscene conversation with their friends and at times, they even utter sentences of Kufr that destroy one’s Iman but they are not even aware of it.

Remember! Company of evil people bears nothing but loss for this world and the Hereafter; because at times, evil company even destroys a person’s Iman. Usually, people do fear dangerous and poisonous animals, insects and such things as they will harm them but do not refrain from such company that destroys their Iman.

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Refrain from a bad company as much as possible as it ruins this world as well as the Hereafter. And adopt a good company as it balances both, this world and the Hereafter. Company of a snake takes one’s life away, whereas the company of an evil friend destroys one’s Iman.’ (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 591)

How does an evil company destroy one’s Iman? Let’s listen to an admonitory parable in this regard and try to refrain from evil company.

Bad company is a cause for the destruction of Iman

‘Allamah Muhammad Bin Ahmad Zahabi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: A person used to sit in the company of those who consumed alcohol. When the time of his death approached, someone persuaded him to recite the Kalimah. Upon this, he started uttering the following words: ‘You drink as well and make me drink too.’ He معاذاللّٰہ passed away without reciting the Kalimah. (When this is the consequence of the company of those who drink alcohol, then how harmful drinking alcohol itself would be!). A chess-player was persuaded to recite the Kalimah at the time of his death. He started uttering the following: ‘ شاھَکَ ’ [i.e. your king].’ After saying this, his soul departed his body.

(Kitab-ul-Kaba`ir, pp. 103, Summarised)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of Rasool! Develop a mind-set to stay in the company of good friends. Company of those who have correct beliefs. Company of those who possess fear of Allah Almighty. Company of those who are devotees of

Rasool. Company of those who along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat also perform Nafl acts of worship. Company of those who invite towards good and forbid from evil. Company of those who worry about the protection of faith. In order to acquire all this, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Masjid-filling movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will be successful in this world and in the Hereafter.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

2.Religious argument without knowledge

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the causes for the destruction of Iman is also to argue on religious matters without possessing knowledge about it. In religious matters, we shall mention only those things that we are absolutely sure of. Deducing things from one’s own intellect can be very dangerous for one’s Iman. As in case of stumbling over the religious matters, many a times, a person falls into the deep pits of Kufr and the person is unaware of the fact that his Iman has been destroyed. There is no shortage of such people in our society either who possess very little religious knowledge but carry such useless arguments as if they possess a great treasure of knowledge. Such ignorant people even end up uttering Kufr from their tongues.

A’la Hazrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states regarding such kind of people in Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, page no. 159-160: ‘A person committing fornication and robbery, despite these actions being sins, they are not as fatal and destructive for him as it is to speak in the matters of Divine knowledge without having [done adequate] research about it. As due to his lack of research and thorough knowledge, he will end up committing Kufr and he will not even know about it. Its example is same as the one who does not know how to swim and dives into the tidal waves of a river. Moreover, satanic deceptions regarding beliefs and religion

are not hidden at all. And Allah Almighty is well aware of everything.’ (Al-Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 2, pp. 270)

3.Not protecting the tongue

Dear Islamic brothers! Not protecting one’s tongue at times also becomes a means for the destruction of Iman. Nowadays, the state of people is such that they utter whatever comes to their mouth. The concept of being mindful of Allah’s pleasure and displeasure is diminishing away. Today’s youth hum songs containing words of Kufr in them. Same tongue is used to tell disrespectful jokes about the Paradise, Hell, angels and Allah Almighty. Using the same tongue, some people utter Kufr while mourning over their poverty. Upon the death of a young person or the breadwinner of the house, people use the same tongue to utter the words of Kufr while complaining to Allah Almighty.

Please come to your senses. Control your tongue and safeguard it from useless, obscene and Kufriyah utterances. Remember! At times, such a sentence gets uttered from our tongues unintentionally that becomes a means of the destruction of our Iman and makes us deserving of the Hell. In this relation, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop a mind-set of protecting our Iman.

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A person utters a sentence to make his companions laugh. But due to it, he falls (in the Hell) even farther than (the distance of the star) Surayya.

(Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 366, Hadees 9231)

٭ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A person utters a sentence that displeases Allah Almighty and he is not even mindful of this fact that this will make him face the displeasure of Allah Almighty. But due to it, Allah Almighty writes for him His displeasure until the Day of Judgement.

(Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 143, Hadees 2326)

اَللّٰھُمَّ اَجِرۡنِیۡ مِنَ النَّار O Allah Almighty! Grant me salvation from the fire (of Hell).

یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation.

بِرَحۡمَتِکَ یَآاَرۡحَمَ الرّٰحِمِیۡنَ Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the most merciful One.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

4.Not avoiding sins

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the reasons for the destruction of Iman is also to remain indulged in sins day and night. The one who remains engrossed in sins day and night loses his Iman due to its curse. In this relation, ‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘The way denying Allah’s verses and mocking them is Kufr and punishment of Kufr is the terrible torment of the Hell forever, similarly, a Muslim sinning continuously is also such an action that could lead him to die in the state of Kufr.

Sayyiduna Abu Ishaaq Fazari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: One person often used to sit with us and keep his face half covered. One day, I asked him: ‘You sit with us quite often and keep your face half covered. Tell me the reason for this.’ He replied: ‘I was a shroud thief. One day, a woman was buried so I went to her grave. When I dug out the grave and pulled her shroud, then she raised her hand and slapped my face.’ Then he showed us his face. It contained fingerprints of five fingers. I asked him: ‘Then what happened?’ He replied: ‘Then I left her shroud and closed the grave by pouring soil over it. I made a firm intention in my heart that I will not dig open anyone’s grave until I remain alive.’

Abu Ishaaq Fazari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says: I sent this incident in writing to Sayyiduna Imam Awza’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Upon this, he wrote back to me saying: ‘Ask him if the faces of the deceased Muslims were facing towards the Qiblah?’ I asked the shroud thief regarding it. He replied: ‘Faces of most of them were turned

away from the Qiblah.’ I sent this reply of his in writing to Imam Awza’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . In reply, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent a reply to me that had اِنَّالِلّٰہِ وَاِنَّاۤ اِلَیْہِ رَاجِعُونْ written three times on it. Along with it, it also stated: ‘Those whose faces were turned away from the Qiblah did not die on the religion of Islam. Seek pardon, forgiveness and Divine pleasure from Allah Almighty.’

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 3, pp. 137 – Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 3, pp. 51)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! Aforementioned are the causes that could become a means of a bad end. Besides these, there are also various other causes that could take one’s Iman away. For example, being lazy in offering Salah, habit of drinking (wine etc.), disobeying parents, harming Muslims, etc. (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 27)

Therefore, we shall try to refrain from all these causes in order to protect our Iman. The fortunate Muslims who depart this world in the state of Iman, Allah Almighty will make them enter the Paradise اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In order to meet our end with Iman, our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have also given different Awraad and Wazaaif along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat. The one who acts upon them will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ have his Iman secured at the time of his death. Let’s listen to 5 Awraad-o-Wazaaif (invocations) for having an end with Iman.

5 Awraad for having a good end

Once, a person came in the court of A’la Hazrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and requested for the Du’a of having a good end. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Du’a for him and said:

1. Read یَا حَیُّ یَا قَیُّوْمُ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اَنْتَ 41 times daily in the morning with Durood Shareef at the beginning and at the end.

(Al-Wazifa-tul-Kareemah, pp. 21)

2. While going to sleep, recite Surah Kafiroon daily after all your Awraad. Do not converse etc., after that. However, if need be, then recite Surah e Kafiroon again after you spoke, as the end should be upon it (Surah-e-Kafiroon). اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, your end will be on Iman. (Al-Wazifa-tul-Kareemah, pp. 34)

3. Recite the following Du’a three times in the day and three times in the evening:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِنَّا نَعُوْذُبِکَ مِنْ اَنْ نُّشْرِکَ بِکَ شَیْئًا نَّعْلَمُہٗ وَ نَستَغْفِرُکَ لِمَالَانَعْلَمُہ

(Al-Wazifa-tul-Kareemah, pp. 17)

4. It is mentioned in Tafseer-e-Saawi: The one who would remember the name of Sayyiduna Khizr عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم along with his Kunyah, father’s name and title, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will have an end with Iman. His name along with his Kunyah, father’s name and title are as follows: اَبُوالْعَبَّاس بَلْیَا بِنْ مَلْکَانَ الْخِضْر

(Tafseer-e-Saawi, vol. 2, pp. 1207 - 1208)

5. Recite بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ عَلٰی دِیْنِیْ،بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ عَلٰی نَفْسِیْ وَوُلْدِیْ وَ اَھْلِیْ وَمَالِی three times in the day and three times in the evening. Your religion, Iman, life, wealth, children will all remain protected. (Al-Wazifa-tul-Kareemah, pp. 17)

O Allah Almighty! For the sake of the blessed hair of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, save me from every calamity in this world and protect me from every grief in the Hereafter. Another Du’a in Your court is that when I am blessed with presenting myself on the blessed Raudah of Your beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then I be engaged in reciting Durood and Salaam upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his blessed court and may my soul be seized in the same very state.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Brief introduction of Dawat-e-Islami’s departments

O devotees of Rasool! As Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is spreading the Sunnahs and call to righteousness all around, at the same time, it is also rendering Islamic services in approximately 107 departments. In order to run all these departments, not millions, but billion of rupees are needed.

In Pakistan and abroad, approximately 602 Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for male and female students) of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, are opened. In these Jami’at, around 52,843 male and female students are undergoing the Dars-e-Nizami course.

In Pakistan and abroad, around 3,049 Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for male and female students) are opened. In these Madaris, more or less 144,633 Madani children (male and female) are acquiring the education of Hifz and Naazirah free of cost. This year, thousands of Huffaz from the Madaris ul Madinah of Dawat-e-Islami will be privileged to recite and listen the Holy Quran in the Taraweeh Salah.

Madani channel is becoming a means of innumerable number of Muslims’ reform and non-Muslims’ embracing of Islam. Moreover, hundreds and thousands of Islamic brothers are acquiring Islamic knowledge through it. In Ramadhan-ul-Mubarak, Madani Muzakarah is aired live twice, once after the ‘Asr Salah and once after the Taraweeh Salah. Other than Ramadan Shareef, Madani Muzakarah is aired live every Saturday.

Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat, Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah and Majlis-e-Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat-e-Attariyyah are established in different cities of Pakistan. Hundreds of thousands of Muslims are benefitting from them.

Other than this, construction of Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madina), other Masajid construction and management is also being carried out by Dawat-e-Islami.

Moreover, Madani Tarbiyyat gaahs are also established at various locations.

Different Madani courses (for example Fard Uloom course, Imamat course, Mudarris course, Islah-e-A’maal [deeds’ reformation] course, 12 Madani activities course, Faizan e Namaz course, etc.) are also conducted on regular basis.

Similarly, weekly Ijtima’aat as well as Ijtima’aat for big nights (such as Ijtima-e-Meelad, Ijtima-e-Ghausiyyah, Ijtima-e-Mi’raaj, Ijtima-e-Shab-e-Bara`at, Ijtima-e-Shab-e-Qadr, etc.) are also conducted.

‘I’tikaf for the entire month/last ten days of Ramadan is also held by Dawat-e-Islami. And a lot more.

This year too, only in Pakistan, an entire month’s ‘I’tikaf is ongoing at various places in which, thousands of devotees of Ramadan are privileged to observe ‘I’tikaf. Similarly, Sunnah ‘I’tikaf of the last ten days of Ramadan is also ongoing at hundreds of locations all around the world, in which thousands of devotees of Ramadan have privilege to observe ‘I’tikaf.

In short, in order to spread and develop successfully the Madani activities further in less time, huge funds are required for running 107 departments under Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. You too give your Madani donations to Dawat-e-Islami. Support your Madani movement, Dawat-e-Islami, in order to spread the call to righteousness.

Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, has done a great favour upon us. There are a lot of such people who until yesterday did not even know how to offer Salah. In fact, they did not know a lot of things. Dawat-e-Islami has taught and explained them (and all of us) a lot of those things.

We are indebted to Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami gave Muslims the mind-set to grow beard and wear ‘Imamah. It gave us the mind-set of the protection of faith. Now, the same Dawat-e-Islami is demanding us

that it needs to progress further and in order to achieve this goal, billions of funds are needed. Monthly expenses of Jami’a-tul-Madinah are in millions. Numerous more Masajid need to be built.

Everyone associated with Dawat-e-Islami should become active like a machine. Try your utmost to collect a considerable amount of Madani donations from your households, relatives, neighbours and shopkeepers. A lot of people give Zakah only in Ramadan. Along with Zakah, try to collect Fitrah too. Expenses are increasing every year. We have to keep our Dawat-e-Islami up and running. We have to strengthen it so that it serves the religion of Allah Almighty abundantly.

Number of Fitrah stalls should be increased. A large number of Fitrah giving people are such who pay their Fitrah by looking at the desk, chair and banner. Fitrah stalls should be held in the markets and outside Masajid. The more stalls of Madani donations we hold, higher the Fitrah we will receive. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! There are various virtues of Shab-e-Qadr and there are many blessings from the court of Allah Almighty for those who worship in this night. Allah Almighty showers His blessings immensely on His servants on this night and also frees sinners from the Hellfire by forgiving them. However, there are some unfortunate people who remain deprived of forgiveness even on this sacred night.

Angels descend with flags

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn e ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما states that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘When Shab-e-Qadr arrives, then Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم descends on the earth by the command of Allah Almighty carrying a green flag with a very large army of angels and hoists that flag on

the Holy Ka’bah. Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has hundred arms. Two of them open up only in this night. Those arms spread across East and West. Then Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم commands the angels that do Salaam and shake hands with every such Muslim who is engaged in Qiyam [worship], Salah or zikr of Allah Almighty on this night and also say Aameen upon their supplications. Therefore, this carries on until the morning. In the morning, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم commands all the angels to return. The angels humbly ask, ‘O Jibraeel! What did you do regarding the needs of the believers of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ Ummah?’ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم says, ‘Allah Almighty casted a special sight of mercy upon them and forgave everyone except for four types of people.’ The blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are those four types of people?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied:

1. A habitual drunkard

2. The one who disobeys his parents

3. The one who cuts off ties with the relatives (without a valid Shar’i reason)

4. One keeping grudge and enmity against his Muslim brother.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 336, Hadees 3695)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers, you have heard that those who consume alcohol, disobey parents, cut ties off with relatives and keep enmities among each other for no reason, remain deprived of the blessings of Shab-e-Qadr. Just ponder if we are indulged in any of the aforementioned evils. Do we harm our parents’ feelings? Are we not getting along with any of our relatives such as our [maternal and paternal] uncles and aunties, siblings etc., without any Shar’i reason? Do we have enmity hidden in our heart for any Muslim? If anyone is معاذاللّٰہ indulged in these sins, then he should repent from them sincerely and should also make the intention of seeking apology from all

those whose rights he has violated. Otherwise remember! Consequence of these sins is very dreadful.

Remember! Drinking alcohol is extremely destructive for one’s Iman, life, wealth, health and society. Alcohol is the root to all evils. Because due to the intoxication of alcohol, a person indulges in unlawful gazing, fornication and different types of sins and destroys his dunya (world) and the Hereafter.

اَللّٰھُمَّ اَجِرۡنِیۡ مِنَ النَّار O Allah Almighty! Grant me salvation from the fire (of Hell).

یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ یَامُجِیۡرُ O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation, O the provider of salvation

بِرَحۡمَتِکَ یَآاَرۡحَمَ الرّٰحِمِیۡنَ Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the most merciful.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Persuasion of Madani Qafilahs on the chand raat (Night before Eid)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ramadan Shareef is a guest of only few days now. It will soon depart from us. Then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Eid-ul-Fitr will arrive. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ every year, fortunate Islamic brothers who observe ‘I’tikaf and numerous other devotees of the Rasool travel in the Madani Qafilahs on chand raat in great numbers having the blessed enthusiasm of following the Madani aim “I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ”.

Therefore, you should also gather courage and make an intention now for travelling with the devotees of Rasool who are travelling in the Madani Qafilahs on chand raat. Contact your responsible Islamic brothers and get your name written down for the Madani Qafilah. In fact if possible, deposit

travelling expenses straightaway too. May Allah Almighty enable us to travel with the Madani Qafilah on chand raat.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Faizan e Madani Qafilah jari rahay ga اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Faizan e Madani Qafilah jari rahay ga اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Faizan e Madani Qafilah jari rahay ga اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

