M ballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Madani In’amaat—A Path to Salvation

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ یَا اَ یُّھَاالنّاسُ اِنَّ اَنْجَاکُمْ یَومَ الْقِیَامَۃِ مِنْ اَھْوَالِھَا وَ مَوَاطِنِھَا،اَکْثَرُکُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلاۃً فِیْ دَارِ الدُّنْیَا ’ ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Day of Judgement, the person who will attain salvation early from its terror and reckoning will be the one amongst you who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

چارۂ بے چارگاں پر ہوں دُرودیں صد ہزار بے کسوں کے حامی و غمخوار پر لاکھوں سَلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

-1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

-2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

-3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

-4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

-5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-6 After Ijtima’, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

-7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

-8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

-9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It is a fact that when a Muslim performs righteous deeds, she gets best reward for them. These righteous deeds bring about her honour and salvation not only in the world, but also in the Hereafter in the blessed court of Allah Almighty. On the other hand, when a Muslim commits bad deeds, that is, commits sins, she gets severe punishment for them and falls prey to destruction. In today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to Bayan about the deeds which bring about honour and salvation for a Muslim in the world and the Hereafter both. Let’s listen to a parable of a Bani Israel worshipper’s act of avoiding sins.

O Nafs! Fear Allah Almighty

There was a person from Bani Israel who was a very pious worshipper. He would remain busy worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the night and would sell some things by going around during the day. Making accountability of his Nafs [pondering over one’s own deeds called Fikr-e-Madinah in the terminology of Dawat-e-Islami] he would often say, ‘O Nafs! Fear Allah Almighty. One day, he as usual left home to earn his sustenance and reached near the door of a rich man and called out in order to sell his goods. Upon seeing this graceful and handsome young man, the wife of the rich man fell in love with him and called him inside the mansion by giving him pretext, and said to him, ‘O trader! I have fallen in love with you. I have abundant wealth and splendid clothes. Give up this work; I will give you silk clothes and plenty of wealth.’

Having heard this tempting offer, his Nafs started turning towards her, but immediately as per his habit, he said [addressing to his Nafs], ‘O Nafs! Fear Allah Almighty’ and then answered the woman, ‘I fear my Rabb Kareem’. The woman started saying, ‘You cannot leave without satisfying my desire’. This young man said again, ‘O Nafs! Fear Allah Almighty.’ He then began to think

of a way out. Finally, he said to the woman, ‘Give me some time so that I can offer two Rak’at Salah after performing Wudu.’ Having obtained permission he performed Wudu and went to the roof where he offered two Rak’at Salah and looked down from the roof which was approximately 20 yards high [around 60 feet]. He looked towards the sky helplessly and humbly said, ‘O my Rabb-e-Kareem! I have been busy performing Your worship for a long time; bring me salvation from this trouble.’ Having said this, he jumped from the roof. Allah Almighty commanded Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘Go and hold My bondman before he falls onto the ground because he has jumped due to the fear of My displeasure’. Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام rushed towards him, held him and sat him on the ground.

(Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 313 – with some minor changes)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From the abovementioned parable it has been understood that the good habit of the one, who fearing Allah Almighty makes her own accountability proves to be helpful in saving her from sins. It has become obvious by the parable that as the heart of the righteous person of Bani Israel turned towards the sin, he immediately uttered the sentence by virtue of having the habit of making accountability of his Nafs [Fikr-e-Madinah]: ‘O Nafs! Fear Allah Almighty’ and then he was overwhelmed by the fear of Allah Almighty in a way that he was protected from committing sins. It has also been found that only virtuous deeds are helpful in hard times. Sometimes by virtue of good deeds one gets such help from Allah Almighty that even the biggest trouble becomes easy. That’s why when the righteous person jumped from the height of the roof in order to get rid of the sin by presenting his acts of worship as a Wasilah (means), he remained safe from death and bodily injuries by virtue of Divine help.

Remember! No one is allowed to endanger his / her life in Islamic Shari’ah. Anyhow, we should also protect ourselves from sins and perform more and more virtuous deeds by making accountability of our deeds [i.e. by thinking if it is the disobedience to Allah Almighty what I am doing]. Not only do we get Divine help by virtue of righteous deeds, but we also get countless privileges

of the world and the Hereafter. In addition, virtuous deeds are the source of removing sins. At many places of the Holy Quran, we have been persuaded to perform virtuous deeds by mentioning their virtues. Let’s listen to three Divine sayings in this regard:

In Ayah 8 of Surah Haa-Meem As-Sajdah, part 24, Allah Almighty has stated:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ عَمِلُوا الصّٰلِحٰتِ لَهُمْ اَجْرٌ غَیْرُ مَمْنُوْنٍ۠(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed for those who believed and did good deeds, is an unlimited reward. (Part 24, Surah Haa-Meem As-Sajdah, Ayah 8)

Similarly, in Ayah 7 & 8 of Surah Al-Bayyinah, Part 30, Allah Almighty has stated:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ عَمِلُوا الصّٰلِحٰتِۙ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمْ خَیْرُ الْبَرِیَّةِؕ(۷) جَزَآؤُهُمْ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ جَنّٰتُ عَدْنٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ-رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُؕ-ذٰلِكَ لِمَنْ خَشِیَ رَبَّهٗ۠(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed those who accepted faith and did good deeds – it is they who are the best among the creation. Their reward is – with their Lord – everlasting Gardens beneath which rivers flow, in which they will abide forever and ever; Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him. (Part 30, Surah Al-Bayyinah, Ayah 7, 8)

In Ayah 114 of Surah Al-Hood, part 12, Allah Almighty has stated:

اِنَّ الْحَسَنٰتِ یُذْهِبْنَ السَّیِّاٰتِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed good deeds wipe out evil deeds.

(Part 12, Surah Hood, Ayah 114)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows limitless reward on the fortunate people who perform righteous deeds after embracing Islam.

Moreover, Heavenly gardens become their abodes and another blessing is that their wrongdoings are also wiped out by virtue of righteous deeds. Therefore, valuing life before death, health before illness, youth before the old age and free time before becoming busy, we should accumulate more and more virtuous deeds for the Hereafter and protecting ourselves from sins we should remain busy with sincerity and steadfastness performing the deeds that lead to Paradise.

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that, giving a sermon to us, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O people! Repent in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before you die and hasten to perform righteous deeds before you get busy and establish your connection with Allah Almighty by means of doing Zikr of Allah Almighty abundantly and by giving Sadaqah secretly and apparently, so you will be given sustenance, you will be helped and your loss will be compensated. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 5, Hadees 1081)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In this blessed Hadees, persuading those [who perform virtuous deeds] to ponder over the Hereafter and perform righteous deeds, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given them good news of abundant sustenance and ease in difficulties, but remember it is very necessary to make accountability of your own deeds with steadfastness for avoiding sins and performing virtuous deeds. Everyone, therefore, should ponder seriously over the consequences of their deeds by thinking: Is whatever I do or doing or want to do, beneficial or harmful to my Hereafter? Surely, the character and conduct of the Muslim, who forms the habit of making accountability of her deeds and pondering over the Hereafter, will gradually improve and her Hereafter will also get better اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The importance and benefit of making accountability of deeds can be judged by the fact that we have been especially persuaded into doing it in the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ وَ لْتَنْظُرْ نَفْسٌ مَّا قَدَّمَتْ لِغَدٍۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! Fear Allah, and every soul must see what it has sent ahead for tomorrow.

(Part 28, Surah Al-Hashr, Ayah 18)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, it is stated in Tafseer Ibn-e-Kaseer: Make your own accountability before your accountability is made and ponder how many virtuous deeds you have accumulated to present in the court of Allah Almighty on the Judgement Day. (Tafseer Ibn-e-Kaseer, vol. 8, pp. 106)

In blessed Ahadees, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also persuaded us many times to make accountability of our own deeds. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

Three blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about accountability [Fikr-e-Madinah]

اِذَا هَمَمۡتَ بِاَمۡرٍ فَتَدَبَّرۡ عَاقِبَتَهُ فَاِنۡ كَانَ رُشۡدًا فَاَمۡضِهٖ وَ اِنۡ كَانَ غَيًّا فَانۡتَهِ عَنۡهُ-1: i.e., When you desire to do some work, think about its outcome, if it is good then do it and if its outcome is bad then refrain from it.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 101, Hadees 5676)

-2 For a wise person there should be a moment in which he makes accountability of his Nafs. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 164, Hadees 4677)

3- فِكۡرَ ةُ سَاعَةٍ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عِبَادَ ةِ سِتِّيۡنَ سَنَ ةً: To ponder over (the matters of Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.’

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that we have been greatly persuaded in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees to make accountability! So if we want to succeed in the Hereafter, we should ponder deeply as to how many virtuous deeds we have performed to please our Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Rather, being sensible every one of us should form the habit of doing Fikr-e-Madinah daily without missing a day. Otherwise, we might die in the same state of heedlessness and be left with nothing but regret, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid.

What is Fikr-e-Madinah?

Remember! In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, accountability of one’s deeds or accountability is called ‘Fikr-e-Madinah’. Fikr-e-Madinah means that a person should ponder over her daily practices from the point of view of the Hereafter and then she should try to reform the activities which prove to be harmful to her Hereafter. She should take steps to bring improvement in the activities which seem fruitful from the point of view of the Hereafter. Observing Fikr-e-Madinah steadfastly brings abundant blessings. It is for this reason that our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to do Fikr-e-Madinah [making accountability of their deeds] very steadfastly and would not become negligent in it at all.

Fikr-e-Madinah all day long

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Waasi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: A person from the people of Basra asked the wife of Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ about his worship after his demise. She replied, ‘He used to ponder [over the Hereafter] sitting in a corner of the home all day long.’

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 162)

Fikr-e-Madinah all the time

It is narrated that Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not laugh for forty years. The narrator said: Whenever I saw him sitting, it seemed as if he had been a prisoner who was brought to be beheaded. When he would talk, his style would be such as if he had been telling about the conditions of the Hereafter after seeing it with his own eyes and when he would remain quiet it seemed as if fire had been blazing before his eyes. When he was asked about the reason for being so much sad and frightened, he replied: ‘I fear that if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets displeased with me by seeing some of my bad deeds and says, ‘Go away, I will not forgive you’, so in this case all of my deeds will become useless. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 198/231)

Fikr-e-Madinah daily

It has been narrated about Sayyiduna ‘Ata Sulami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who did not look towards the sky for forty years out of Divine fear, and nor did anyone see him smile: Addressing to his Nafs everyday he would say: O Nafs! Don’t cross your limits and remember! You have to go into the grave too, you have to cross the Siraat Bridge too. You will be surrounded by your enemies [hooks] who will pull you from the right and left. That time, the Qazi will be Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the prison will be Hell, whereas Sayyiduna Maalik (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) will be in charge of it. The Qazi of that day will not turn towards injustice مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and nor will the in-charge accept any bribe, and nor will it be possible to break the jail so that you can escape from it. There is only destruction for you on the Day of Judgement. You do not even know where angels will take you, whether they will take you to the place of comfort and honour in Paradise or to the place of wistfulness and narrowness in Hell. (In this way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would continue to do Fikr-e-Madinah.) During this period of time, tears would keep on streaming from his blessed eyes.

(Hikayat-us-Saliheen, pp. 50)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed the great passion of our pious predecessors for practising Fikr-e-Madinah! In the sight of these blessed personalities رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, Fikr-e-Madinah [making accountability of your own deeds] was so important that they would remain worried about their deeds all the time by thinking whether these deeds of theirs would become the source of their forgiveness after being accepted or would prove to be the cause of their destruction after being rejected in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Just ponder, when these blessed personalities would do Fikr-e-Madinah so much with steadfastness, so how much do we [sinful people] need to do Fikr-e-Madinah?

The benefits of doing Fikr-e-Madinah and loss of not doing Fikr-e-Madinah can be understood well by this example that as the businessman of this world can become a successful businessman when he succeeds in earning many times more profits than he spends and his original capital also remains intact. For achieving this purpose, he divides calculation into a daily basis, weekly basis,

monthly basis or yearly basis then not only does he ponder over it from various aspects verbally, but he also writes it down and tries to save it in different ways. Moreover, where he finds any defect, he rectifies it and removes the thing that becomes an obstacle in the way of earning profit. If he does not take accounts of his business activities, he very often has to suffer a loss instead of earning profit. If he still does not wake up to the fact after that loss then the day also comes when he even loses his original capital and finally becomes insolvent.

Similarly, the one who wishes to earn profit in the business of the Hereafter should ponder over the deeds she has performed. She should further make the deeds better which help her earn profit and should stop performing the deeds which are becoming an obstacle in the way of earing profit. Allah Almighty will enable the one to achieve success who continues to make her accountability in this manner, and she will also be privileged to enter Paradise as a profit اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If she becomes heedless instead of doing like this, she will suffer a loss, resulting in her entering Hell. (وَالْعِیاذُ بِاللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ)

The guidance Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us regarding doing Fikr-e-Madinah in an easy and better manner is appreciable and practicable. In this troublesome age, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us a comprehensive collection of Shari’at and Tareeqat consisting of the method of performing virtuous deeds easily and staying safe from sins, namely ‘ Madani In’amaat ’ in the form of questions. There are 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers, 63 for Islamic sisters, 92 for Islamic students (boys), 83 for Islamic students (girls), 40 for Madani children [boys and girls] and 27 for special [dumb and deaf] Islamic brothers.

This great gift of Madani In’amaat not only reminds us of pious predecessors, but following in their footsteps it is also the best way of doing Fikr-e-Madinah. By acting upon them we can attain the great passion for making an effort to reform ourselves and the people of the entire world. Moreover in solitude, we can correct our mistakes by analysing our deeds whether they are good or not by ticking ‘yes’ or ‘no’ in reply to the questions mentioned in the booklet of Madani In’amaat. It means these Madani In’amaat make us

appear in our self-made accountability court daily and cause our conscience to make a decision and give us the opportunity for our reformation and salvation.

In fact, these Madani In’amaat are the collection of the persuasion of the deeds which lead to Paradise and save from Hell. Noticing our practically bad condition, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has brought a unique method for reforming us so that we succeed in attaining steadfastness in doing Fikr-e-Madinah [self-accountability] after fixing time daily. That’s why doing Fikr-e-Madinah daily countless Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and students fill in the blanks given in the pocket-sized Madani In’amaat booklet. By virtue of its blessing, the obstacles in the way of becoming righteous and avoiding sins are gradually removed by the grace and favour of Allah Almighty. Moreover, we also make up our mind to act upon Sunnah regularly, hate sins and protect our faith.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Best source of salvation

If it is said about Madani In’amaat that they are a best source of following the path to salvation, so perhaps it will not be wrong because some Madani In’amaat consist of obligatory acts, some Wajib acts and some consist of Sunan and Mustahab acts and surely all these acts bring about Hereafter salvation and lead to Paradise after protecting us from Hell. Let’s listen to some Madani In’amaat out of them:

First Madani In’aam is: Today, did you make good intentions before performing some of the permissible acts? Moreover, did you persuade at least two others to do the same?

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! The intention of gaining reward in the Hereafter is necessary for the deed to be accepted. In Ayah 19 of Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ مَنْ اَرَادَ الْاٰخِرَةَ وَ سَعٰى لَهَا سَعْیَهَا وَ هُوَ مُؤْمِنٌ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ كَانَ سَعْیُهُمْ مَّشْكُوْرًا(۱۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whoever desires the Hereafter and strives for it accordingly, and is a believer – so only their effort has borne fruit.

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 19)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, a renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Three things are required for a deed to be accepted. (1) Becoming seeker of the Hereafter, that is, righteous intention [intention should be good] (2) Making an effort, that is, performing the deed correctly fulfilling all its obligations (3) Faith, that is most essential

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

Deeds depend on intentions and for every person there is the same for which he makes intention. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 6, Hadees 1)

Regarding this blessed Hadees the commentator of Bukhari Mufti Muhammad Shareef-ul-Haq Amjadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that the meaning of this blessed Hadees is that the reward for deeds depends on intention; without intention there is no right of reward. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 172)

Dear Islamic sisters! From the above-mentioned blessed Hadees we have understood the importance and excellence of intention. We, therefore, should make good intentions before every permissible and righteous work for the sake of attaining reward so that by virtue of its blessings the loads of reward continue to be accumulated in our Book of Deeds.

Similarly, one Madani In’aam is that: Today, did you speak out or treat your anger by keeping silent on feeling angry? Furthermore, did you forgive or continue to find an opportunity to take revenge?

When we ponder over this Madani In’aam, we will learn that it is an excellent method of rooting mischief and discord out from the society. Of course, when everyone will stop taking revenge, and will get the passion for forgiving and remaining patient, mischiefs and riots, quarrels and disputes will be rooted out and hence our society will become peaceful. In this Madani In’aam, we have also been persuaded to forgive others. Forgiving others means if someone makes a mistake or oppresses us in any way or hurts us in any manner so instead of taking revenge or showing anger to her by saying unkind and harsh words, we should forgive her for Divine pleasure. Suppressing anger and forgiving people are excellent qualities and fine habits. In Ayah 109 of Surah Al-Baqarah, Part 1, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَاعْفُوْا وَ اصْفَحُوْا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So leave them and be tolerant.

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 109)

The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘The one who suppresses anger though has the power to implement it, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fill his heart with His pleasure on the Judgment Day’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه not only persuades others to forgive, but he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ also forgives others himself regarding his personal matters. Moreover, in order to express the blessings of Allah Almighty on him, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ says: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I do not have the passion for revenge.’ May we also succeed in avoiding feeling angry unnecessarily, becoming emotional and taking revenge for ourselves!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard how great blessings these Madani In’amaat have! By acting upon them not only do we become steadfast in obligatory and Wajib acts, but we also get an opportunity to overcome many social and moral weaknesses which are found in us. We have heard about the blessings of a few Madani In’amaat through which it can be judged that all the Madani In’amaat contain great mercy and blessings. Therefore if we want to become practicing Muslims, we should surely act upon the Madani In’amaat given to us by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

These Madani In’amaat are the best Madani method of achieving path to salvation and becoming righteous, and above all they prove to be the cure of the disease of sins.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Acting upon Madani In’amaat—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! To beautify your manners and make your character and speech better, join Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, take part in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ and submit its card on the first Madani date of every month. We must also keep on persuading other Islamic sisters to submit the Madani In’amaat card on a regular basis. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the more we become steadfast on it, the more we will carry out good deeds.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. How many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling out the blanks given in the booklet on the first day of every Madani month. Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, Jannat kay Talabgaraun kay liye Madani Guldastah published by Maktaba tul Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make effort to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the “Madani In’aam of making an individual effort”, distribute at least 26

booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month. Target: At least 12 per Zayli Halqah.

Madani In’amaat led to Madina h

It is a summary of an account given under oath by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi: We are the descendants of a caliph of A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . That caliph was the maternal grandfather of my mother and we were all his disciples. Although we had great devotion to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه by the blessing of the Bay’at, we had no tendency to act upon Islamic teachings including even Salah. Furthermore, the darkness of fashion, songs and music had prevailed in our home. Fury and peevishness had also become second nature to us.

Fortunately, a son of my paternal aunt was associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. He invited my brother to the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’. Making individual effort, he even started taking my brother to the Ijtima’. Having returned from the Ijtima’, my brother would tell us what he heard during the Ijtima’, mentioning Imam A h mad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, thus causing me to develop a liking for the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the first time in 1985, I was inspired to attend ‘the special session’ of the annually-held Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’. During the Ijtima’ I along with other Islamic sisters listened to the speech and made heart-rending Du’a, all with the observance of Islamic veiling.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of the very same Ijtima’, I repented of my sins, developing the mindset of pondering over my afterlife. In order to remain steadfast in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I started acting upon Madani In’amaat and was blessed with the privilege of performing Hajj and paying a humble visit to Madinah along with the caravan of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the brief excellences of few more Madani In’amaat so that the desire of accountability of Nafs and actions increases in our heart. Therefore, among these Madani In’amaat, one Madani In’aam is about repentance from all sins. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said about those who repent; ‘All humans are sinners, and best among those sinners are those who repent.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 491, Hadees 4251) ٭ In the same way, evaluate the importance of the Madani In’aam about offering Tahajjud with this saying of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘The most superior Salah after obligatory Salah is the Salah offered during the night.’ (Muslim, pp. 591, Hadees 1163) ٭ There is also one Madani In’aam about the ‘Awwabeen Nawafil” offered after Maghrib Salah. In its virtue it is said, ‘one who recites six (6) Rak’at after Maghrib in such a way that he does not say anything bad in between them, then these six (6) Rak’at will become equal to twelve (12) years of worship. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 2, pp. 45, Hadees 1167) ٭ Madani In’aam regarding offering ‘Chasht Nawafil’ is also a source of attaining enormous virtue. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘O son of Aadam! Do not become tired of offering four (4) Rak’at at the beginning of day, I will be sufficient for you until the end of the day.’ (As-Sunan-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 177, Hadees 468) ٭ Acting upon the Madani In’aam regarding refraining from telling lies is also a means of attaining house in Paradise. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ I guarantee a house on the edge of Paradise for the one who ends the quarrel despite being right, a house in the middle of Paradise for the one who quits telling lie even if he would lie out of humour, and a house in the higher rank of Paradise for the one with good manners.’ (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 332, Hadees 4800) ٭ To act upon the Madani In’aam regarding refraining from backbiting is a means of attaining the blessed proximity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Whoever had reduction in his wealth and had a big family, and he offered Salah well and did not backbite Muslims, when he will come on the day of judgement, he will be with me like these two (2) fingers.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 449, Hadees 17868) ٭ Acting upon the Madani In’aam regarding learning and teaching Holy Quran in Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults is also a great privilege. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Undoubtedly, there are some chosen people of Allah Almighty

among people.’ The companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked; ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are those people?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘People who recite Quran; as they are the chosen people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and included among the special people.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 140, Hadees 215) ٭ Madani In’aam of reciting various ‘Awraad-o-Wazaaif’ (invocations) which contains the persuasion of ‘Zikr-o-Azkaar’. Regarding the virtue of Zikr, it is stated in Hadees-e-Qudsi that Allah Almighty says: ‘When My slave does My Zikr and his lips move for Me, then I am with him.’ (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 243, Hadees 3792) ٭ To act upon the Madani In’aam regarding observing Sawm on Monday is also an admired act according to the blessed Hadees. The blessed saying of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is: ‘Deeds are presented on Monday and Thursday. Therefore, I prefer that when my deeds are presented, I am observing Sawm.’ (Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 187, Hadees 747)

Blessings of Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that acting upon these Madani In’amaat is actually acting upon some commandments of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees. There are so many blessings for acting upon them that we cannot even imagine. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Steadfastness in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is also attained through Madani In’amaat. In short, Madani In’amaat are the source of salvation from calamities of the Day of Judgement and to get lots of virtues. Let’s all of us make an intention that اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ from today, we will perform Fikr-e-Madinah, meaning we will make a habit of filling the booklet of Madani In’amaat.

IT department of Dawat-e-Islami has also launched an application of Madani In’amaat, which you can install in your mobile phones and perform Fikr-e-Madinah through it.

Majlis-e-Tajiraat ([Women] Traders’ Majlis)

Dear Islamic sisters! (اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه) Dawat-e-Islami is serving the Deen in more or less 104 departments. Among these departments, one is ‘Majlis-e-Tajiraat’. Trading is such a department which holds the importance of being a backbone for every country. Moreover, economy of many countries depends on

trading. But unfortunately, today, a large number of Muslims are far away from practicing the golden Islamic principles of trading due to being distanced away from the knowledge of Deen. Therefore, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, “Majlis-e-Tajiraan” for Islamic brothers and “Majlis-e-Tajiraat” for Islamic sisters came into existence. The work of “Majlis-e-Tajiraat” is to introduce the Islamic sisters related to the trading industry with the Islamic teachings regarding trade, spread the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami among them and while associating them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, give them a mind-set to spend life in accordance with the Madani aim “I must try to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ”.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to bring the Bayan towards the end, I would like to take the opportunity to mention excellence of Sunnah, and some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Whoever loves My Sunnah, loves Me, and whoever loves Me will be with Me in Paradise.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سنّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Putting kohl: Madani pearls

In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

§ It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl/Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

§ Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

§ Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

§ Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

§ Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

