Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of the blessed daughters of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The famous Hadees book Tirmizi states: The Most Glorious Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared: اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَةِ اَکْثَرُھُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاةً ‘The closest individual to me on Judgement day shall be the one who recited Durood upon me in the largest quantity.’ (Sunan-e-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27 Hadees 484)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Hadrat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه elaborates on this Hadees: The most tranquil human on judgement day shall be whoever is closest to the Glorious Messenger of Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the route to acquiring close proximity to Allah’s Messenger صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an abundance of Durood recitation. This illustrates that the recitation of Durood is an incredibly virtuous deed; since all other deeds lead to Paradise, yet this leads to the groom of Paradise . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 100)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed offspring of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessed month of Rabi’ ul Awwal is among us. The slogans of Marhaba Ya Mustafa are resounding everywhere. The virtues, excellence, Prophetic miracles and attributes of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are being mentioned all over the world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Allah Almighty also blessed His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the blessing of sons and daughters. So in this regard, today, we will listen to the blessed account of the blessed daughters of our beloved master, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and be privileged to listen about the different aspects of their blessed Seerah.

Remember! The number of the blessed offspring of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is seven. Three sons and four daughters رِضْوانُ اللہِ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن . (Sharah-ul-Mawahib, vol. 4, pp. 313) Out of all these seven offspring, only one of his sons, Sayyiduna Ibraheem رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, was born to Sayyidatuna Mariyah Qibtiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, and the remaining of the blessed offspring were born to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 687)

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the eldest daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, let’s listen about her blessed account first.

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born ten years before the declaration of Nubuwwah in Makkah-tul-Mukarramah when the blessed age of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was thirty years. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was brought up by none other than Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was extremely pious and an embodiment of piety. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was an embodiment of patience and someone who showed immense gratitude. Just imagine! Someone who would have been brought up by none other than the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself, how great would be her blessed manners. What great habits she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would have and what great attributes and excellence she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would possess.

Dear Islamic sisters! Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that sacred personality who has been made to face a lot of hardships in the path of Allah Almighty. He was oppressed in different ways. All limits of oppressions and tyrannies were crossed. The tyrannies and oppressions of those cruel people increased to such an extent that they not only crossed all limits in afflicting oppressions and tyrannies upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم alone, but they did so upon everyone who was also associated with him. The beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, is also among those oppressed individuals who suffered the oppression and cruelties of the disbelievers.

Fell off the camel

Husband of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, Abul ‘Aas Bin Rabi’ رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, sent her to Madinah-e-Munawwarah after the battle of Badr. When the disbelievers of Makkah found out about her departure, they went in her pursuit to the extent that they found her in the place called Zi-Tuwa. Habbar Bin Aswad struck Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with a spear which made her fall off her camel, resulting in her miscarriage.

(Seerat-un-Nubuwwah Li-Ibn Hishaam, pp. 270 - 271)

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became severely grieved over this incident. Therefore, mentioning her virtues, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ ھِیَ اَفْضَلُ بَنَاتِیْ اُصِیْبَتْ فِیَّ ’ i.e. She is superior among my daughters from the aspect of suffering such great hardship while migrating to me. (Al-Mawahib Ladduniyyah; Az Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318 – 319; Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 455 - 456) She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away in the 8 th Hijri. Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Ayman, Sayyidatuna Saudah Bint-e-Zam ’ah and Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salamah رَضِیَ اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَنْہُنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن gave her ghusl (ritual bath). May we be sacrificed upon her dignity, greatness and fortune that not only did the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم give his blessed tahband for her shroud but also lowered her in the grave with his own blessed hands after leading her funeral Salah. (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had so much love and compassion for his blessed daughter that even after her

demise, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم kept blessing her. It is as if Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told the Muslims of the entire world until the Day of Judgement that a daughter deserves love and compassion, not hatred. We have come to know that the beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, was targeted for the cruellest of the oppressions and tyrannies. May we get sacrificed! Despite all this, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا still remained steadfast, showed patience upon the calamity and remained expressing gratitude to Allah Almighty. Therefore, if we ever encounter a calamity or face any hardship in the path of Allah Almighty, then we shall also show patience while having trust in Allah Almighty. Various virtues have been mentioned in the blessed Ahadees for observing patience over calamities. For persuasion, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop a habit of observing patience over calamities.

-1 Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Whomsoever Allah Almighty intends goodness for, He Almighty afflicts calamity upon him. (Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 5645)

-2 Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Calamity is afflicted upon a person according to how religious he is. If he is firm in religion, then his calamity is also firm. And if he is weak in his religion, then Allah Almighty tests him according to his religious status. A person keeps getting afflicted with calamities to the extent that all his sins are forgiven in this world. (Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 369, Raqm 4023)

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Being afflicted with calamities and challenges is not a means of hardship, but a means of mercy and privilege. Therefore, no matter how many hardships befall us, we get surrounded by calamities, troubles prevail all around us, and illnesses strike us from all corners, still we shall not utter a single word of complaint from our tongue; rather, we should develop our mindset in the following manner that if we succeed in observing patience over these calamities, then we will deserve such great and illustrious rewards from Allah Almighty on the Day of Judgement that people will be envious over them.

Those in peace will wish…

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: On the Day of Judgement, when ill and grieved people will be rewarded, then those in peace would wish that only if! Our skins were cut with scissors in the world. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 180, Hadees 2410) I.e. they would wish that such illnesses should have befallen us in the world in which our skins were cut through an operation so that we could also attain the reward today that is being given to other ill and grieved people. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 424)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! The way Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her beloved daughter Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, similarly, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also immensely compassionate and kind towards her blessed offspring.

Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم love for Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Out of the offspring of Sayyidatuna Zaynab رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, there was a son named ‘Ali’ and a daughter named ‘Umamah’ . ‘Ali’ got martyred in the ‘battle of Yarmook’. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم immensely loved Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . When the king of Abyssinia sent a garment and a precious ring as a gift in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave that ring to Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Similarly, once somebody gifted a very precious and beautiful necklace. All the blessed wives رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ thought that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will make Sayyidatuna Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا wear this necklace (because Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her the most among all the blessed wives رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ). But Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘I will make the one wear this necklace who is most beloved to me among my household.’ After saying this, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made his granddaughter, i.e. Sayyidatuna Umamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, wear that necklace. (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 318 - 321)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was also one of the beloved daughters of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born 7 years before the declaration of Nubuwwah (in Makkah-e-Mukarramah). At that time, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 33 years old.

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا attained the privilege of being among the first caravan of Muslims that migrated in Islam. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 694) She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا attained the privilege of migrating twice to Abyssinia and once to Madinah. (Tareekh-e-Damashq, vol. 3, pp. 151) Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married her to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Both these husband and wife first migrated towards Abyssinia and then towards Madinah, and were blessed with the title of Sahib-ul-Hijratayn (i.e. those who migrated twice).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Dear Islamic sisters! After the demise of Sayyidatuna Ruqayyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married (another of his daughters) Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in 3 Hijri. Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away in 9 Hijri. This very beloved daughter of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also honoured with the privilege that her blessed father, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led her funeral Salah himself and laid her to rest in the graveyard of Madinah-e-Munawwarah, ‘Jannat-ul-Baqi’ . (Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 325 - 327)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Muzakarah’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami a Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, reverence to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and other sacred personalities and having love for them is taught, and a mindset is given to act upon their blessed Seerah. Therefore,

remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time and act upon the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah in your area. One Madani out of the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also ‘Madani Muzakarah’ . Every Islamic Sister individually or by gathering family (without non-mahrams) should listen to the Sunnah-inspiring Bayans and Madani Muzakarahs of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Sunnah-inspiring Bayans from Maktaba-tul-Madinah of other Muballighs (Preachers). Cassette Ijtima should be conducted once in a month in Weekly Ijtima and Learning Halqa. It should be conducted weekly in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for elder Islamic sisters) and daily in Jamia-tul-Madinah (Islamic sisters) [Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه gets extremely happy with those who listen to Sunnah-inspired Bayan or at least one cassette Bayan/Madani Muzakarah daily].

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ٭ by the virtue of the blessing of watching and listening to ‘Madani Muzakarahs’, one develops the mindset to remain cautious in the matters of Shari’ah.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains the company of the devotees of Rasool.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one’s passion to become practicing increases.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one develops hatred towards sins.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one attains steadfastness in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah, one gets information regarding the Madani activities of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, ‘Dawat-e-Islami’ .

Let’s listen to a Madani parable:

Woke up to fact (Madani parable)

There was an Islamic sister in Punjab (Pakistan) who, before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment, would watch films and dramas on TV. Whenever she wanted to go to market, she would go without any purdah; she would not even offer Salah. In this way, she was heedlessly spending her days committing sins. Once, someone gave her cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. When she listened to them, she woke up to the fact. By virtue of the blessing of the speeches she was blessed with Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She also started offering Salah regularly and repented all of her sins especially non-observance of purdah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Burqa’ became the part of her dress. The tongue she would use to hum songs now اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is used to recite the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 32)

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Countless people have repented of their sinful lives due to the blessings of Madani Muzakarah. Let’s make an intention that we will also ensure watching of ‘Madani Muzakarah’ every week and will also keep inviting other Islamic sisters to watch the Madani Muzakarah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Other than weekly basis, Madani Muzakarahs are also conducted on different occasions, such as 10 Madani Muzakarahs in Muharram-ul-Haraam, 12 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, 11 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir, 2 Madani Muzakarahs daily in the month of Ramadan, 10 Madani Muzakarahs in the month of Zul Hijja tul Haraam, etc.

Out of the 8 Madani activities, in order to learn in detail about the Madani activity of ‘Madani Muzakarah’, read the booklet ‘Haftawar Madani Muzakarah’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All Zimmahdar Islamic Sisters of Dawat-e-Islami should definitely read this booklet.

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s now listen about the dearest daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Khatoon-e-Jannat’ Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا:

Brief introduction of Khatoon-e-Jannat رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

The blessed name of Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is ‘Fatimah’; blessed titles of Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا are ‘Zahra’ and ‘Batool’. The blessed childhood and every moment of her life were incredibly pure and clean. She got Tarbiyat (upbringing) under the blessed patronage of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would listen to the sacred sayings from her blessed parents all the time. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was extremely pious, devoted worshipper and highly virtuous woman. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is known as ‘Aabida’ (worshipper), ‘Zahidah’ (ascetic) and ‘Tahirah’ (pure). (Safina-e-Nuh, pp. 14 - 15)

Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was quite similar to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in blessed manners, habits, speech and character. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 466, Hadees 3898)

Apart from all these beautiful aspects, Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had enormous qualities.

Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had deep devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loved her so much. Let’s briefly listen to some of the blessed aspects about it:

Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا as a human ‘Hoor’

When non-Muslims demanded Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to show them the splitting of the moon into two pieces, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was in the blessed womb of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا in those days. Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘What a disgrace for the one who denied our Beloved Rasool ‘Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best Rasool and Nabi.

How appreciable the saintly miracle of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was that she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا addressed her beloved mother رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا from the blessed womb of her mother in this way: ‘O beloved mother! Do not grieve and nor do you scare; undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is with my blessed father.’

When Khatoon-e-Jannat, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was born, the whole atmosphere was illuminated by the blessed face of her. When the

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smell the pure fragrance of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would say: ‘ فَاطِمَۃُ حَوْرَاءُاِنْسِیّۃٍ ’ Fatimah [ رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ] is a human Hoor [Heavenly maiden].’

(Ar-Raud-ul-Faiq Fi-Mawaiz-ul-War-Riqaiq, pp. 274)

Resemblance to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and manner of conversation

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Ayesha رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘I have not seen anyone more similar to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in habits, manners, Seerah and character than Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’

(Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 454, Hadees 5217)

In another narration, it is stated, Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Ayesha رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘I have not seen anyone more similar to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the way of talking and sitting than Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’

(Al-Adab-ul-Mufrid, pp. 255, Hadees 974)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Khatoon-e-Jannat was a true picture (resemblance) of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but rather picture merely gives an outline of face [whereas] she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was the perfect example of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in blessed Seerah and habits too. (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 365)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a great majesty she has! The blessed way of walking, standing up, sitting down and even the way of talking of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was according to the blessed way of the blessed father ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’.

May we also spend our lives in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ acting upon the blessed Seerah (way of living) of Khatoon-e-Jannat Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ; may we become the coolness of the eyes of our parents, may we behave everyone gracefully, gently and with goodness; may we become helpful to others in the time of their trouble and distress; may we adorn our physical appearance according to Sunnah and may we protect our Batin [inner-self] from jealousy, arrogance, slandering and evil presumption.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِیہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! May our heart and life be sacrificed on the beloved daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا! She had a very deep yearning for the betterment of Muslim Ummah. Sometimes she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would make Du’as during the entire night for the grieved Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She would not make any request in the court of Allah Almighty for her ease and luxury, but rather she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would do household chores during the whole day and in the night she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would worship Allah Almighty and remain busy reciting the Holy Quran abundantly.

Worship should be like this!

Sayyiduna Imam Hassan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I saw my mother Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا that she would continue to offer Salah at the Mahrab of Masjid-e-Bayt (a specific place at home where Salah is offered) in the night until Fajr. I heard her making Du’as for Muslim men and women abundantly. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would not make any Du’a for herself. I humbly said: Dear mother! Why do you not make any Du’a for yourself? She replied: First neighbour then home. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 461)

Let’s have the privilege to listen to the sayings of blessed companions about Sayyidah Khatoon-e-Jannat’s yearning for recitation.

Recitation even despite being busy

Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once Hasnayn-e-Karimayn were sleeping. Sayyidatuna Fatimah Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was fanning them and reciting the Holy Quran. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 35)

Recitation even during cooking

Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyidah Khatoon-e-Jannat رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would continue to recite the Holy Quran even during cooking. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 35)

Dear Islamic sisters! You must have noticed that Khatoon-e-Jannat Sayyidah Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was so eager to recite the Holy Quran and perform worship that she would perform worship day and night and used to recite the Holy Quran even during her household chores. Alas! Today women listen to songs while doing household chores; it seems as if they could not do their household chores without listening to songs and music. May we be privileged to spend our nights performing worship! May we not spend any moment of ours in useless activities! May we spend every moment of ours doing Zikr and reciting Salat and Salam resulting in the blessing! May we get rid of our bad habit of listening to vulgar songs and music and singing! May we do Zikr and recite Salat and Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all the time whether we are busy with household chores or traveling!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! It is usually observed that the higher a person gets a post the better she spends her life; she eats better food, wears nice dresses, lives in expensive houses and travels by splendid cars. Similarly, her children also live a comfortable and luxurious life. But may I be sacrificed to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been blessed by the Almighty Allah with the most virtues and powers than all the creation and has been blessed with countless authorities, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم preferred Faqr and lived a life of contentment and absolute trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Since the Lady of Paradise is the dearest daughter of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, following in the footsteps of her father she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا preferred the same way of living her life that her blessed Beloved father صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم preferred. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable in this regard and attain the pearls of advice.

The ordeal of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyiduna Imran bin Husain رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a good opinion of me. Once he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said [to me]: O Imran! You have a special status before me! Will you come to inquire after my daughter Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ? I humbly replied: May my parents be sacrificed for you! I will definitely come. We left and reached the door of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knocked on the door and said Salam and after Salam asked permission to get in. Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied: Please come in! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: There is another person with me. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا asked: Huzoor! Who is the other person? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Imran! Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: By Allah Almighty Who has sent you with truth! I am covering my entire body with only one chador. Gesturing by his blessed hand he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: You make purdah like this. She humbly said: In this way, my body is covered, but my head cannot be covered. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم threw an old chador to her and said: You cover your head with it. After this he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered the home and said Salam and after Salam said: Daughter, how are you? Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly replied: Huzoor! I have two sufferings – one related to illness and the other one related to hunger! I have no such thing by which I can satisfy my appetite. Having heard this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم wept and said: Daughter, do not worry. By Merciful Rab! My rank is higher than you in the court of Allah Almighty, but I have not eaten anything for three days. If I ask from Allah Almighty, He will surely feed me, but I have preferred the Hereafter to the world. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then placing a hand on the shoulders of Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘Be happy, you are the chief of heavenly women!’ She asked: Where will Sayyidatuna Aasiyyah and Maryam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهِمَا be? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Aasiyyah is the chief of her era and you are the chief of your era; you will live in the palaces of Paradise which have no defect, no sadness and no inconvenience. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: Be happy with your paternal cousin; I have married you to the chief of the world and the Hereafter. (Mushkil-ul-Aasaar Li-Tahawi, vol. 1, pp. 36)

After almost 5 or 6 months of the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (3 rd Ramadan, 11 H) she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا passed away. (Safinah-e-Nuh, Part. 2, pp. 54)

Dear Islamic sisters: From the above-mentioned parable we have obtained three Madani pearls.

٭ Going to daughter’s home and inquire after her after her marriage are blessed Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ Living a life full of troubles and Faqr was the optional act of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, not due to any compulsion and helplessness. That’s why he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If I ask [from Allah Almighty], He will surely feed me, but I have preferred the Hereafter to the world. Similarly, the blessed household of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also very content, patient and pleased.

٭ To remain patient on poverty and Faqr-o-Faqah and its persuasion are Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . From this event, it has become obvious that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised his beloved daughter Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to have patience and remain steadfast in the trial of poverty. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself was having patience on Faqah (hunger) for many days. We, therefore, should be patient and grateful to Allah Almighty in every state and should not make any complaint at all. If Allah Almighty wills, all the problems will start to get solved. In addition, another best way of attaining the treasure of patience and thankfulness is to remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool.

Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il

Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and support Dawat-e-Islami in order to spread the message of Islam. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments. One of them is Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il (Majlis for Distribution of Books / booklets). You can also distribute booklets yourself by buying books and Madani booklets and memory cards from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. You can also get the books and Madani booklets [published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah] distributed free of charge on the various occasions for the Isaal-e-Sawab of your deceased ones by setting up stalls by contacting

‘Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasa’il’ of Dawat-e-Islami. May Allah Almighty bless us with the passion to not only take part in the great act of distributing booklets ourselves but also persuade others to do so!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of treating others with kindness

First listen to the two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ On the Day of Judgement, three types of people will be under the shade of the ‘Arsh of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One who treats relatives with kindness (will be among them). (Al-Firdaus bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 99, Hadees 2526)

٭ One believing in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Judgement Day should treat relatives with kindness. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 136, Hadees 6138)

٭ Muslims have been unconditionally commanded in Ahadees to treat relatives with kindness. The words ‘ ذَوِي الۡقُرۡبٰي ’ (i.e. relatives) were unconditionally stated in the Holy Quran. However, as there are different levels in relationship, there are also different levels of treating relatives with kindness, depending upon how close a relative.

٭ Treating others with kindness is a blessed Sunnah of our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

٭ Parents hold the greatest status in treating relatives with kindness.

٭ One can treat his relatives with kindness in different ways. For example, giving them gifts, providing them help if they need it, saying Salam to them, meeting them, talking to them and treating them gracefully and nicely. (Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

٭ One should meet his relatives on alternate days or with gaps, as appropriate, as it will develop affection. One can also meet his relatives weekly or monthly. The whole family and community should be united.

One should also help his relatives when they are in the right in any issue. All of them should favour the truth with unity. (Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

٭ Kind treatment does not only mean treating those relatives kindly who have treated you kindly. This is actually an ‘exchange of treatment’. For example, sending a gift to the relative who has sent you a gift or going to the house of one who comes to yours. In actual fact, kind treatment means establishing ties with one who cuts off ties with you and caring about the relative who ignores you and stays away from you.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 678)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

