Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

ؕ Welcome Ramadan!

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of blessed Durood

The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the Most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰى عَلَیَّ صَلَّى اللهُ عَلَيْهِ عَشْرًا بِهَا مَلَكٌ مُوَكَّلٌ بِهَا حَتّٰى يُبَلِّغَنِيْهَا

The one who recites Durood on me, Allah Almighty bestows 10 mercies on him and an angel has been appointed to present this blessed Durood to me.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 134, Raqm: 7611)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

۔1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

۔2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

۔3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

۔4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

۔5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

۔6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

۔7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

۔8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

۔9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Ramadan! Amongst the lunar months the importance and excellence the sacred month of Ramadan is not hidden from any wise person. It is the great month for which the devotees of Ramadan wait throughout the year. As this blessed month comes, Muslims become happy; their yearning for worship increases more than before and a substantial decrease in sins is observed. Muslims become extremely happy on seeing the blessings and liveliness of Sahari and Iftari. Fortunate Muslims become busy offering Tarawih with the intention act upon a Sunnah. Zikr and Durood are recited in abundance; people become more enthusiastic in spending in the way of Allah Almighty; the poor and the destitute are financially helped and many other good deeds are performed. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is the same month of blessings whose virtues and blessings our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned himself.

Welcoming Ramadan and sermon of Beloved Rasool

Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that on the last day of Sha’bān the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم delivered a sermon to us, ‘O people! An auspicious and blessed month is coming to you. In this month, there is a night that is better than a thousand months. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made it Fard to observe Siyam in this sacred month. To worship (offer Tarawih S alah) in its nights is Sunnah. If you perform a virtuous deed in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out a Fard act in any other month and if you perform a Fard act in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out 70 Fard acts in any other month. It is the month of patience and the reward for patience is Paradise. It is the month of helping [Muslims] in hard time and the month of goodness. In this month, a believer’s sustenance is increased. In this month, the one who serves Iftar to a Sawm-observing person, this [act of his] is forgiveness for his sins; he will be freed from the fire, and he will be rewarded the same as the one who observes Sawm, without any reduction in the reward of the Sawm-observing person.’ We humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Not all of us have the thing through which we serve a Sawm-observing person Ift a r .’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Allah Almighty will bestow this reward upon the one who offers a date or mouthful of water or a mouthful of milk to a Sawm-observing person for Iftar. It is the

month whose first 10 days are mercy, second 10 days are forgiveness and the last 10 days are deliverance from the Hell. The person who takes less work from his employee, Allah Almighty will forgive him and will free him from the Hell. The one who serves a Sawm-observing person with a meal to his fill, Allah Almighty will make him drink such a mouthful [of water] from my pond that he will never feel thirsty (after drinking it) and will enter Paradise.

(Ibn-e-Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 191, Hadees 1887)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have so much love and devotion to this sacred month i.e. sacred Ramadan that as the signs of this sacred month would appear, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would himself welcome this sacred month with extreme glory and would also mention its glory and dignity, virtues and blessings to the blessed companions and by doing this he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would describe its significance and importance to them. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also make their mind to perform different virtuous deeds. Therefore we should also wish Muslims this blessed month. We should also perform acts of worship ourselves in this blessed month and should make others aware of the importance, virtues and blessings of this sacred month and continue to make their mind to perform many good deeds. May Allah Almighty bless us with the real blessings of blessed Ramadan!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Manner of preparation for Ramadan

Ramadan was just round the corner and Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a famous pious person who was a historian by profession, had nothing. He

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote a letter to his ‘Alawi [1] friend stating, ‘the blessed month of Ramadan is coming, and I have nothing to spend. Please send 1000 dirhams [silver coins] to me as a loan without any interest.’ So the ‘Alawi sent him a bag containing 1000 dirhams [silver coins] to him. After a short while Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received a letter from his another friend with the following message, ‘I need 1000 dirhams to spend in the blessed month of Ramadan.’ Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent him the same bag of dirhams.’ The next day, the ‘Alawī friend who gave Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه the dirhams and the friend who received the dirhams from Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه both came to the house of Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . ‘Alawi friend said, ‘The blessed month of Ramadan is coming and I had nothing except for these 1000 dirhams, but when I received your letter I send all of my 1000 dirhams to you. For my own need, I wrote a letter to this friend of mine to send me 1000 dirhams as a loan. He sent me the same bag of dirhams I sent to you. So it has been learnt that you borrowed dirhams from me, I borrowed dirhams from this friend of mine and he borrowed from you. I sent you the bag which you sent to him, and he sent me the same bag.’ Then with mutual consent these three personages shared the money between themselves.

The following night Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to have a dream in which he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You will get a lot tomorrow.’ The next day, the chief Yahya Barmaki called Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and asked, ‘Last night I had a dream in which I saw you worried; what’s the matter?’ Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه told him the entire story. Yahya Barmaki replied, ‘I cannot say as to which of you is more generous. Undoubtedly, you all three are generous and deserve to be respected. The chief then gave 30,000 dirhams (silver coins) to Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and 20,000 dirhams each to the other two. Further, he also appointed Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as a Judge.

(Hujjatullahi-‘alal-‘Aalami, pp. 577; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Rasool! From the above-mentioned parable it has become obvious that Muslims are generous; Muslims prefer others’ choice to their own choice; Muslims help other Muslims who are suffering from troubles. Unfortunately! Now we are losing the passion and enthusiasm for helping other Muslims; now we ourselves eat well, earn well, wear well and live a splendid life; we also enjoy different kinds of blessings in the Sahari and Iftari of the blessed month of Ramadan, but unfortunately now we have forgotten to help our poor and needy relatives, neighbours and other Muslims. Anyway, following in the footsteps of these great personalities we should help Muslims practically in the blessed month of Ramadan and in other months. Remember! Serving Muslims Iftari and water is a kind of help. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, great excellence has been mentioned for serving someone Iftar and water in the month of Ramadan.

Virtues of serving someone Iftar

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who serves [any Muslim] Halal food or water as Iftar, angels during the month of Ramadan and Jibraeel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم in the night of Qadr make Du’a of forgiveness for him. (Mu'jam Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 262, Hadees 6162)

It is stated at another place: The one who serves water to a Sawm-observing person, Allah Almighty will make him drink from my pond and he will not be thirsty until he enters Paradise.

(Ibn-e-Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 191, Hadees 1887)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Rasool! Allah Almighty has countless favours upon us; He bestows things upon the sinful people like us day and night throughout 12 months; blessed Ramadan is the great blessing of Allah Almighty for which no matter how deeply we become grateful to Him it will not be sufficient. Forgiveness is given from the beginning of this month to the end of this

month. It is the great month in which Allah Almighty bestowed five special gifts upon the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Five special blessings

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘In Ramadan, my Ummah has been given five such things which were not given to any other Nabi عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام before me:

۔1 On the first nig ht of blessed Ramadan, Allah Almighty has mercy on them and the one on whom Allah Almighty has mercy will never be tormented.

۔2 The smell emanating from their mouths in the evening (due to hunger) has a higher status in the sight of Allah Almighty than even the fragrance of musk.

۔3 Angels continue to make Du’as for their forgiveness every day and night.

۔4 Allah Almighty orders Paradise: ‘Be adorned for My (righteous) bondmen; soon they get rid of the sufferings of the world and will find peace in My house and My mercy.’

۔5 On the last night of blessed Ramadan, Allah Almighty forgives everyone.’

A person from the nation stood up and humbly asked, ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Is it Layla-tul-Qadr?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘No. Do you not see that labourers are given their wage when they finish their work?’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 56, Hadees 7)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Ramadan! Have you heard! The glory and greatness of blessed Ramadan is very eminent! In this sacred month, Allah Almighty has mercy on His servants. Muslims should have prepared for this month from the blessed month of Rajab and should have pleased Allah Almighty by worshipping Him and reciting the Holy Quran, but unfortunately majority of Muslims spend this month heedlessly like other months too.

‘Passing time’ during Sawm

Similarly, there are some people who observe Sawm, but then feel that their time is not passing. So putting the honour of Ramadan aside they indulge themselves in Haraam and impressible activities to pass their time.

Which worship is the best?

O the devotees of Ramadan! Save the sacred moments of blessed Ramadan from wasting them in useless activities! Life is very short, consider it to be precious. Instead of passing [wasting] your time in playing different games and listening to songs in the name of ‘passing time’ (rather wasting time) try to spend your time in reciting the Holy Quran and Durood and doing the Zikr of Allah Almighty. The more thirst and hunger we feel اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the more we will be rewarded for having patience. It is narrated, اَفْضَلُ الْعِبَادَاتِ اَحْمَزُھَا (The best worship is the one that has more hardship).’

(Tafseer Kabeer, part 29, Al Muzzammil, That-ul-Ayah 1, 6/685

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Ramadan and recitation of the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic sisters! In the blessed month of Ramadan, a large number of devotees of Ramadan are usually seen reciting the Holy Quran a lot with great enthusiasm. But alas! Many unfortunate people remain deprived of this privilege in this month. In this matter, we should follow in the footsteps of our pious predecessors. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this sacred month, our pious predecessors would have the privilege of not only reciting the Holy Quran completely once a day, but they would do it many times a day.

Routine of Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Ibrahim رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Sayyiduna Sa'd bin Ibrahim رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not do Iftar until he would completely recite the Holy Quran on the 21st, 23rd, 25th, 27th and 29th of blessed Ramadan. He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would keep pondering over the Hereafter matters between Maghrib and Isha Salah and would often send me to call

Miskeens [poor people] at the time of Iftar so that they could also eat with him.

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 3, pp. 199, Raqm 3695)

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! One should learn how to love Quran, have yearning for its recitation and value Ramadan from them who would recite Quran a lot in the month of forgiveness. We should also make the intention of reciting the Holy Quran a lot in the month of Ramadan and welcome this guest of Allah Almighty happily with respect and honour. For persuasion, let’s listen to some virtues of reciting the Holy Quran.

Virtues of reciting Holy Quran

٭ Those who recite the Holy Quran have been praised in the Holy Quran. (Part 1, Al Baqarah, Ayah 121)

٭ Loving the Holy Quran [reciting it and acting upon it] is a source of loving Allah Almighty and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mu'jam Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 132, Hadees 8657)

٭ One gets the reward of 10 virtues for reciting one letter of the Holy Quran.

٭ The home in which Quran is recited becomes blessed for its dwellers.

٭ Goodness increases in the home.

٭ Angels visit the home and Satans get out of it. (Ihya-ul-'Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 826)

٭ On the Judgement Day, the Holy Quran will come to intercede for the forgiveness of the sins of its reciters. (Muslim, pp. 403, Hadees 804)

٭ Allah Almighty will bestow better (Sawab) upon reciters of the Holy Quran than the reward of those who give thanks. (Kanz-ul-A'maal, vol. 1, pp. 273, Hadees 2437)

٭ Those who recite the Holy Quran and act upon its commandments are Allah-loving and His special people. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 140, Hadees 215)

٭ Recitation of the Holy Quran is an excellent act of worship for this Ummah.

(Shu'ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

٭ For the one who recites the Holy Quran standing in Salah there are 100 virtues in exchange for every letter.

٭ For the one who recites the Holy Quran in the sitting position there are 50 virtues in exchange for every letter.

٭ 25 virtues are for the one who recites [it] in the state of Wudu apart from Salah.

(Ihya-ul-'Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 366)

٭ Recitation of Quran is a means of cleaning hearts. (Shu'ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 352, Hadees 2014)

May Allah Almighty bless us with the desire and yearning for reciting the Holy Quran.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Three levels of Sawm

Dear Islamic sisters! There are three levels of Sawm:

۔1 Sawm of common people

۔2 Sawm of the pious

۔3 Sawm of the ascetic

1. Sawm of common people

The literal meaning of Sawm is ‘to abstain’. In Shari’ah terminology, it means to abstain from deliberately eating, drinking and having conjugal relationship from dawn (Subh-e-Sadiq) to sunset. This is called the Sawm of common people.

2. Sawm of the pious

In addition to abstaining from eating, drinking and having conjugal relationship, preventing all the parts of body from evils/sins is the Sawm of Khuas i.e. special people.

3. Sawm of the ascetic

Devoting yourself completely to the worship of Allah Almighty after preventing yourself from all the [ worldly] activities is the Sawm of the ascetic. (Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 175; Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 90)

O the devotees of Ramadan! The aim of Sawm is to protect our body parts from sins along with refraining from eating, drinking etc., we should make all our body parts observe Sawm strictly and should protect ourselves from every type of evils because we stop eating and drinking during the day by observing Sawm in the month of blessed Ramadan though this eating and drinking was absolutely permissible during the day before Ramadan. We then should ponder over it ourselves that the things which are Halal before blessed Ramadan have been forbidden during the days of this sacred month, so the things which are already Haraam before blessed Ramadan such as lying, backbiting, telling tales, abusing, watching films and dramas, listening to songs and music, gazing unlawfully, hurting the feelings of Islamic sisters without any Shar’i permission, etc., will automatically become even more severely Haraam in blessed Ramadan. Now ponder! How can a person attain the blessing of Sawm who stops eating and drinking pure and Halal things but continues to perform Haraam deeds that lead to Hell?

Remember! The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has warned, ‘If anyone does not refrain from indecent talking and evil acts (remember) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not need his act of remaining hungry and thirsty.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 628, Hadees 1903)

Fighting and quarrelling while observing Sawm!

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! Alas! Some have become so bad that it seems as if they find a way of troubling, quarrelling and causing inconvenience to others in the month of blessed Ramadan. If someone

abuses someone or hurts her in any way, so for the sake of Allah Almighty instead of forgiving the offender, the person who has been hurt gets ready to fight her.

Remember! One should not speak such things at all which cause trouble to a Muslim, but rather one should become humble. We can stay safe from all these evils only when we protect our body parts from sins by making them also observe Sawm strictly (i.e. abstain from committing sins through them). The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Sawm is not the name of only abstaining from eating and drinking, but rather Sawm is that one should avoid using useless and obscene language. If someone abuses you or behaves badly towards you, so say, ‘I am observing Sawm’.

(Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 67, Hadees 1611)

Now let’s have some examples of sins committed by body parts:

Sin committed by eyes

The sin committed by eyes is to see things which are declared Haraam by Allah Almighty. Every Muslim should protect their eyes from seeing Haraam things and should observe Sawm through their eyes by looking at only permissible things such as the Holy Quran, sacred Ka'bah, the fragrant streets of sacred Makkah, the Green Dome, the beautiful view of Arab deserts, etc.

Sin committed by ears

The sin committed by ears is to listen to those things from which Allah Almighty has forbidden, therefore do not listen to songs and music at all, do not listen to false jokes, do not listen to backbiting, tale-telling and faults of other people etc., and do not eavesdrop any two Islamic sisters’ private conversation. Observe Sawm through ears! It can be done by listening to only permissible things such as listening to recitation of the Holy Quran, Hamd and Na'ats and Manqabat about pious predecessors, Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs and good things.

Sin committed by tongue

The sin committed by a tongue is to utter those things which displease Allah Almighty, therefore protect the tongue from being impure by abusing, lying,

backbiting, telling tales, etc. May our tongue be used only for righteous and permissible things! For example, recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr and recite Durood, recite Hamd and Na’at, deliver Sunnah-inspiring speeches, present the call towards righteousness, etc.

Sin committed by hands

Using hands for the disobedience to Allah Almighty is the sin of hands. So we should try not to use them to beat anyone unjustly, to give and take bribe, to neither steal anyone’s possession nor shake hands with a non-Mahram. Whenever we have to use our hands, we should use them only for virtuous deeds such as for touching the Holy Quran in the state of Wudu, shaking hands with pious Islamic sisters, etc.

Sin committed by feet

The sin committed by feet is to go to a place from which Allah Almighty has prohibited; therefore we should not go to the cinema and to the bad gatherings at all. May our feet be used only for righteous acts! To walk for presenting the call towards righteousness, to walk to Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima,

May Allah Almighty enable us to protect our body parts from sins and perform righteous and permissible acts in Ramadan and other months as well!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! Another way of welcoming the blessed Ramadan and spending it in performing virtuous deeds is to present the call towards righteousness to Islamic sisters, forbid them from evils and make their mind to observe Fard Siyam by telling them the virtues of blessed Ramadan; make individual efforts abundantly. May we get such blessings from ‘Welcoming Ramadan’ arranged by our individual and collective efforts

that the Madani blessings of Siyam be seen everywhere. May we try to send the pamphlet named ‘Horrific Grave scene of the one indulging in sins during Ramadan’ published by Maktaba tul Madinah to every home.

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are receiving the blessings of the blessed month of Sha'ban and soon the blessed month of Ramadan will also arrive. The blessed Urs of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna Khadija tul Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is on 10 th blessed Ramadan. Let’s listen to a brief zikr of hers in relation to it.

Introduction to Sayyidah Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

The name of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna Khadija tul Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is ‘Khadijah’, father’s name is ‘Khuwaylid’ and mother’s name is Fatimah. Her Kunyahs are Umm-ul-Qaasim and Umm-e-Hind. Her titles are Taahirah, Sayyidah, Siddiqah and Al-Kubra. Her last title is so much used with her name that it seems as if it is the part of her name. She was the first woman to embrace Islam. She is the mother of Khatoon-e-Jannah Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and the grandmother of the chiefs of the youth of Jannah Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . She sacrificed her entire wealth for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and spent her entire life looking after him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not perform Nikah with any other woman in her life. She lived almost 25 years with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and on the 10 th year of the announcement of Prophethood, in the sacred month of Ramadan, she passed away at the blessed age of 65 and was laid to rest in the famous graveyard of sacred Makkah, Jannat-ul-Ma’la. In order to get more information about her blessed life, study the book ‘Faizan-e-Ummahat ul Mu`mineen’ from page 31 to 39 and a booklet, ‘Faizan-e-Khadija tul Kubra’, published by Maktaba tul Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The

Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol.1, pp. 97, Hadees 175) O devotees of Rasool! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about condolence. First of all read two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

۔1 The one who offers condolence to the grieved is as much rewarded as the grieved.

(Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 338, Hadees 1075)

۔2 The believer who condoles with his troubled brother, Allah Almighty will make him wear the dress of Karamah on the Judgment Day. (Ibn Majah, Raqm 2, 268/1601)

٭ Condolence means to advise a troubled person to have patience. Condolence is a Sunnah.

(Bahar-e-Shari'at, vol. 1, pp. 852)

٭ Condolence is also permissible even before the burial, but it is better to express condolences after the burial. It applies when the family members of the deceased do not wail; otherwise, condolences should be expressed before the burial to console them.

(Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 141)

٭ Only the Mahram of the woman should condole with her. It should be said while condoling: May Allah Almighty forgive the deceased and bless him with the space in His Jannah!

(Bahar-e-Shari'at, vol. 1, pp. 852)

٭ There is no harm if the relatives of the deceased sit in his home so that people come to them to express their condolences. However, it is bad to sit at the door of the home or on a road after laying a dhurrie or carpet on it. (Al Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 176)

٭ If people come to the home of the deceased after burying him and then go back to their homes after expressing condolences by chance, there is no harm in it, but it should not be practised as a custom. (Bahar-e-Shari'at, vol. 1, pp. 853)

٭ The one who has already offered condolence once should not go to condole again as it is Makruh. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, pp. 177)

Announcements

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The system of the world goes well by virtue of presenting the call towards righteousness and forbidding [people] to commit evil acts. If it is stopped, then disturbance will occur. People will continue to do good as long as they perform virtuous deeds and call people towards righteousness, and refrain from evils and forbid from them (evils). (Nayki ki Da'wat, pp. 16) اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Islamic sisters go for Madani Daura (visit) on every _________ from _______ at ____________. You are also requested to make a firm intention to attend Madani Daura. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! The Holy Quran, which is the Kalam of Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on which Islamic teachings are based, is such a Kalam recitation of which is not only worship, but beholding it is also worship. Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! ‘Faizan-e-Tilawat Course’ will start from the 1 st of Ramadan, at _________ from __________ to ___________. So let’s make intention that we will not only attend this course ourselves, but we will also persuade others to do so. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salma رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If a woman offers Salah in her room, it is better for her than to offer Salah in the verandah of her home and if she offers Salah in the verandah, it is better for her than to offer Salah in the courtyard and if she offers Salah in the courtyard, it is better for her than to offer Salah outside the home. (jannat mayn lay jaanay walay a'maal, pp. 102)

O devotees of Rasool Islamic sisters! One of our Madani In'amaat is to offer Salah in Masjid-e-Bayt. If you fix any place in your home to offer Salah, then this specific place will become your Masjid-e-Bayt. So let’s make intention to offer Salah of Tasbih and Taraweeh, etc., in Masjid-e-Bayt at our homes. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ All the responsible Islamic sisters should make this intention: We must attend Weekly Madani Daurah in order to attain the blessings of the month of Ramadan.

All the Islamic sisters should also make the following intention: ‘We will attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly’ because if we attend

weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima regularly, we will learn good things. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in approximately 107 departments at home and abroad. Let’s make up our mind to spend money on preventing sins and spreading Islam.

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima for Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters take place at thousands of places, wherein hundreds of thousands Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters gain the Islamic knowledge by attending them. Only in Pakistan, 529 weekly Ijtimas for Islamic brothers whereas, 6501 for Islamic sisters are being conducted.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty then this (Sadaqah) becomes a veil between him and the fire’

Please give your Madani donations (charity) to Dawat-e-Islami to cover the expenses of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami'a-tul-Madinah and other departments being run by Dawat-e-Islami within the country and overseas and attain Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward).

Please make intention that I will give all my Wajibah and Naafilah Sadaqahs (Zakat, Sadaqah, Charity etc.) to the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah Almighty enable us to act accordingly.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

All Islamic sisters are requested that the pamphlet “Horrific Grave scene of the one indulging in sins during Ramadan” published by Maktaba tul Madinah may kindly be purchased in the maximum quantity or minimum 12 or as much as one can afford and distribute them and also affix them at prominent places in their homes. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the mindset of refraining from sins would be developed by its blessing.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaikh-e-Tareeqat Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat conducts Madani Muzakarah daily in the blessed month of Ramadan after Asr and Taraweeh Salahs. It is telecast live on Madani Channel. All Islamic sisters are requested to attend these 2 daily Madani Muzakarahs and also persuade other family members accordingly. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ countless Madani pearls of knowledge and wisdom would be obtained.

