اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

The Night of Mi’raaj

Observations of Allah’s Mercy in Paradise

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world.’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2229)

تمہارا نام مصیبت میں جب لیا ہوگا ہمارا بِگڑا ہوا کام بن گیا ہوگا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent His Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as the perfect example of miracles. A great number of miracles were bestowed upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One of the greatest miracles of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the miracle of Mi’raaj (Ascension of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to the Heavens and beyond). The Most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made to ascend Heaven where he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed many Divine rewards. Today, I am privileged to present you with some of those Heavenly observations.

On the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a person with his hair combed, sitting on a chair beside the doors of Jannah. Seated by him were some people with bright faces and some with darkened faces. Those with darkened faces took a bath in a river and came out clean. They then entered another river and took a bath and came out even more purified. Upon entering a third river and bathing, they were purified so much that their colour turned bright like their companions. They then sat next to those companions with bright faces.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘O Jibra`eel! Who are these people?’ He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! This man (on the chair) is your father Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام ; he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the first person on earth who combed his hair. These radiant people have never mixed their Iman with any evil and wickedness, and those who have a touch of darkness are people who mixed their good deeds with some bad ones, but they repented, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has accepted their repentance. The first river in which they took a bath in, is a blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the second one is a favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the third one is what Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made them to drink, ‘Tahoor’ (pure) wine.’ (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 401)

بچا جو تلوؤں کا اُن کے دَھووَن بنا وہ جنت کا رنگ و روغن

جنھوں نے دُولھا کی پائی اُترن وہ پھول گلزارِ نُور کے تھے

وہ بُرجِ بطحا کا ماہ پارا بِہِشت کی سیر کو سِدھارا

چمک پہ تھا خُلد کا ستارہ کہ اس قمر کے قدم گئے تھے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed those darkened people that a river of Divine Mercy and blessings washed and purified them, this was followed by a river of Divine favour which further purified them and when they drank from Sharab-e-Tahoor, they became extremely bright. Remember that they attained salvation from the darkness of sins because they sought sincere forgiveness in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted their repentance and brightened their faces. In fact, true repentance not only removes the darkness and stains of sins but also blesses the bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with success and prosperity. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says:

وَ تُوۡ بُوۡۤ ا اِلَی اللّٰہِ جَمِیۡعًا اَ یُّہَ الۡمُؤۡ مِنُوۡنَ لَعَلَّکُمۡ تُفۡلِحُوۡنَ ﴿۳۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And O Muslims, all of you, turn in repentance together towards Allah, in the hope of attaining success.

(Part 18, Surah An-Noor, verse 31)

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah’s mercy and compassion is so great that the umbrella of His kindness and mercy is always ready to take each sinner under its shade; no matter how big the sins are, one should not delay in seeking repentance and one should never lose hope in the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The mercy and kindness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is far beyond our understandings. As a result

of true repentance, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives the sins of His bondsmen even if their sins reach to the limits of the sky. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves those who beg for forgiveness:

وَ ہُوَ ا لَّذِیۡ یَقۡبَلُ التَّوۡ بَۃَ عَنۡ عِبَادِ ہٖ وَ یَعۡفُوۡ ا عَنِ السَّیِّاٰتِ وَ یَعۡلَمُ مَا تَفۡعَلُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۲۵﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He is the One that accepts repentance from His servants and forgives sins and He knows all that they do.

(Part 25, Surah Ash-Shura, verse 25)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is learned through this blessed verse that Divine mercy has been descending abundantly upon the bondsmen. So, if the bondsmen commit any sin, since they are human beings, they should immediately present themselves in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and seek true repentance. The Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَلنَّدَمُ تَوْبَۃٌ ’ i.e. feeling shame (for sins) is repentance. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 346, Hadees 7687)

As it is a fact that sometimes remorsefulness and repentance work wonders and brings about such a change which is not even possible by long and hard worship. Whoever seeks repentance purifies himself from sins as it is mentioned in a blessed Hadees: ﴿ اَلتَّائِبُ مِنَ الذَّنۡۢبِ كَمَنۡ لَّا ذَنۡۢبَ لَه ٗ ﴾ (Whoever repents of his sin, it is as if he never committed the sin at all).

(Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 4250)

Undoubtedly, the Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is immense, if anyone seeks true repentance, it is as if, he has not committed any sin and even Jannah waits for those who perform good deeds.

During the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by a valley from which a fresh and pleasant breeze was blowing with the fragrance of Musk. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard a voice there

and asked Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام as to what this pleasant breeze with the fragrance of musk and voice were. Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام replied: It is the voice of Heaven, saying, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Grant the dwellers of Jannah entry into me and those for whom You promised me and no doubt, I have pleasant fragrances, silk, brocade, pearls, corals, gold, silver, perfect things, honey, milk and pure wine etc. in abundance. So grant them entry into me as You had promised me.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘In you, I will grant refuge to every Muslim man and woman who believe in Me and My Prophets, they perform good deeds, do not associate partners with Me and fear Me. I will bestow upon those who ask Me; I will give recompense to those who lend to Me; I will fulfil the needs of those who have trust in Me; I am Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ); none is worthy of worship except Me; I do not go against My promise.’ Listening to this, Heaven said, ‘I am pleased now.’ (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 399)

بزمِ ثنائے زُلف میں میری عروسِ فِکر کو

ساری بَہارِ ہَشت خُلد چھوٹا سا عِطر دان ہے

عرش پہ تازہ چھیڑ چھاڑ فرش میں طُرفہ دُھوم دَھام

کان جِدھر لگائیے تیری ہی داستان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you listened regarding the voice of Jannah? How unique and excellent blessings and bounties have been mentioned by it! Even it humbly wanted in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that let the fortunate people enter into it. Upon this, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the creator of universe, described the characteristics and attributes of successful true believers. Let’s listen to those attributes:

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said regarding those fortunate inheritors of Paradise in verses 1 to 11 of Surah Al-Mu`minoon, part 18:

قَدۡ اَفۡلَحَ الۡمُؤۡ مِنُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۱﴾ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ فِیۡ صَلَا تِہِمۡ خٰشِعُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۲﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ عَنِ اللَّغۡوِ مُعۡ ـ رِضُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۳﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِلزَّکٰوۃِ فٰعِلُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۴﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِفُرُوۡجِہِمۡ حٰفِظُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۵﴾ اِلَّا عَلٰۤی اَزۡوَاجِہِمۡ اَوۡ مَا مَلَکَتۡ اَیۡمَا نُہُمۡ فَاِ نَّہُمۡ غَیۡرُ مَلُوۡ مِیۡنَ ۚ﴿۶﴾ فَمَنِ ابۡتَغٰی وَرَآءَ ذٰلِکَ فَاُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡعٰدُوۡنَ ۚ﴿۷﴾ وَالَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِاَمٰنٰتِہِمۡ وَ عَہۡدِہِمۡ رٰعُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۸﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ عَلٰی صَلَوٰ تِہِمۡ یُحَافِظُوۡنَ ۘ﴿۹﴾ اُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡوٰرِثُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۱۰﴾ الَّذِیۡنَ یَرِثُوۡنَ الۡفِرۡدَوۡسَ ؕ ہُمۡ فِیۡہَا خٰلِدُوۡنَ ﴿۱۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Succ essful indeed are the believers. Those who humbly cry in their prayers. And who do not incline towards indecent matters. And who pay the (obligatory) charity. And who guard their private organs. Except from their wives or the legal bondwomen that they possess, for then there is no blame upon them. So whoever desires more than these two – they are crossing the limits. And those who keep proper regard for their trusts and their pledges. And who guard their prayers. They are the inheritors. Those who will get the inheritance of Paradise; they will abide in it forever. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, verse 1-11)

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that all these qualities such as offering Salah with humility and presence of heart and mind; turning away from dirty, false and evil vain talk, falsehood, and all that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden; guarding the private parts, avoiding transgressing the due limits of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping the trusts and covenants of the bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these can make one deserving of Jannat-ul-Firdaus. We too should cultivate these qualities in ourselves so that we could also become deserving of Jannat-ul- Firdaus.

Remember! Firdaus is the best and the highest part of Jannah. Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has

stated: ‘There are one hundred levels in Jannah and between each level is a distance like the distance between the earth and the sky. Firdaus is the greatest and superior of them all, and above it is the Divine throne and from it originate the rivers of Heaven, therefore, whenever one prays for Jannah, he should mainly pray for Jannat-ul-Firdaus. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 238, Hadees 2538) If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has answered this prayer then it will be the greatest blessings of the Hereafter.’ (Siraat-ul-Jinan, vol. 6, pp. 508)

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Let us be among the inheritors of Jannah and those who enjoy the greatest blessings of it, and guard us from all those sources leading to Hell.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

یا خُدا! میری مغفرت فرما! باغِ فِردَوس مَرحَمَت فرما!

مُصطَفٰے کا وسیلہ تَوبہ پر تُو عِنایت مُداومَت فرما!

مَوت ایماں پہ دے مدینے میں اور مَحمود عاقبت فرما!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The greatest blessings and favours which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has prepared for his virtuous bondsmen, all these bounties and blessings have been shown to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the night of Mi’raaj (Ascension).

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: I entered Jannah (on the night of Ascension), I saw stones which were made of pearls and soil of Musk [1] ; thereafter I saw four rivers, the first river was of water which does not change; the second was of milk, the taste of which does not change; the third was of pure wine which is delicious (non-intoxicating) to those who drink it and the

fourth one was of clean and pure honey. The pomegranates of Jannah were like large leather buckets in size and the birds were as camels [in size]. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has prepared such marvellous and wonderful favours for his pious bondsmen which have never been witnessed by any eye nor did anybody hear about it ever and nor did anyone have any idea about it.

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 2, pp. 394)

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the methods of enjoying the blessings of Jannah is to develop the habit of reciting Salat upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم along with other obligatory and necessary acts of worship. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created a tree in Heaven whose fruit is smaller than a pomegranate and larger than an apple, it is softer than butter, sweeter than honey and more fragrant than Musk. The branches of this heavenly tree are made of pearls, its trunks are made of gold and the leaves are made of chrysolite. ‘ لَا يَاۡكُلُ مِنۡهَا اِلَّا مَنۡ اَكۡثَرَ مِنَ الصَّلَا ةِ عَلٰي مُحَمَّدٍ ’, the fruit of this tree will be eaten only by that person who would recite Salat abundantly upon the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Haawi, lil-Fatawa, vol. 2, pp. 48)

Recitation of Salat is such a beautiful worship, that in the state of intense heat on the Day of Judgement, at the heavenly fountain of Kawsar, the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will recognise those who would recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi upon him in abundance.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Some people will approach the fountain of Kawsar and I will recognise them by virtue of their recitation of Salat (Durood) in abundance. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 264)

یا الٰہی جب پڑے محشر میں شورِ دارو گیر اَمن دینے والے پیارے پیشوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی جب زبانیں باہر آئیں پیاس سے صاحبِ کوثر شہِ جُود و عطا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی سرد مُہری پر ہو جب خورشیدِ حشر سیّدِ بے سایہ کے ظِلّ لوِا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی گرمیِ محشر سے جب بھڑکیں بدن دامنِ محبوب کی ٹھنڈی ہوا کا ساتھ ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also develop the habit of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in abundance. Remember! Though it seems to be a very small act of worship as one can recite a lot of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in a very short period of time, but look at the great generosity of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that how Merciful He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is upon his bondsmen that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants loads of treasures of rewards against this seemingly small blessed act.

Sayyiduna Abu Talhah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to me with signs of joy manifest on his blessed face stating that (Sayyiduna) Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) came to him stating humbly that Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) said: ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Are you not pleased that when anyone from your Ummah sends Salat (Durood) upon you once then I shower mercy ten times upon him, and when anyone from your Ummah sends one Salam, then I send Salams ten times upon him.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 189, Hadees 928)

Dear Islamic brothers! How fortunate is that person who makes himself deserving of 10 virtues of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by reciting Salat in the court of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Each of us must be yearning to receive the special blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; when reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi just once brings this excellence that he is blessed with peace and 10 blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and it is his good fortune, as who can guess the Divine blessings showering upon the one who recites Salat upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم daily.

بیکار گفتگو سے مری جان چھوٹ جائے ہر وقت کاش! لب پہ درود و سلام ہو

یوں مجھ کو موت آئے تمہارے دیار میں چوکھٹ پہ سر ہو لب پہ درود و سلام ہو

ہو جائیں ختم کاش! گناہوں کی عادتیں ایسا کرم اے سیّدِ خیر الانام ہو

آقا! غم مدینہ میں رونا نصیب ہو ذکرِ مدینہ لب پہ مرے صبح و شام ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! How Merciful and Compassionate our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ is that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers great blessings and favours upon his bondsmen that we cannot even imagine. Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘On the blessed night of my Ascension I found a declaration written on the door of Heaven, that the reward for Sadaqah is multiplied by ten times, whereas the reward for giving a loan is multiplied by eighteen times. I asked, ‘O Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام), why is a loan rewarded more than charity?’ He said, ‘Because a needy person may ask for charity when he does not need it, but the borrower only borrows in cases of dire need.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-ut-Sadaqat, pp. 154, Hadees 2431)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this blessed Hadees, we have also learnt that if any Muslim needs a loan, we should help him with good intentions according to our ability, for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and earn rewards in abundance. Islam gives the message of brotherhood, sympathy and tenderness. In the time of trouble and difficulty of our Muslim brother, we should help him and should do our best for him. However in today’s times, the approach of sympathy and helping others is dying out and the greed for hoarding money has led to such an extent that the spirit of cooperating with one another and showing concern for one another has become a rare occurrence. If only we follow the Islamic teachings in a true sense and consider the troubles and worries of our brother as ours and try to remove them immediately.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: One who removes the trouble of a Muslim in the world, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remove the trouble of that person on the Day of the Judgement. One who relieves a poor person in the world, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will relieve him in the world and in the Hereafter, one who covers up the shortcomings of any Muslim, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will cover up his shortcomings and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to help a bondsman as long as he continues helping his own brother. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 373, Hadees 1937)

Dear Islamic brothers! Doing good to a Muslim, helping him in his time of difficulty, showing gentleness when asking the debtors to repay the debts or giving him more respite are from the righteous qualities. Sometimes, due to these virtuous deeds, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives His sinful bondsmen, as Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: There was a man who had never carried out any good deed; nevertheless, he used to give loans to the people. He would often say to his servants, ‘If you find a prosperous debtor, then take the money that was loaned and if he is poor then do no ask for it (but grant him more time). If only our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants us salvation.’ When this man passed away; Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ asked, ‘Have you did any good deed?’ He humbly said, ‘No, however! I used to give loans to the people and when I used to send my servant to recover it, I would instruct him to only ask if the debtor was prosperous and if he is poor then do not ask for it but grant him more time, perhaps Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ may grant us salvation because of this.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘I have forgiven you.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 285, Hadees 8738)

گناہوں سے بھرپور نامہ ہے میرا مجھے بخش دے کر کرم یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great the mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are that whoever keeps his attention on the Divine blessings and always has a good opinion about it then he never experiences the deprivation of the blessings and mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated: ‘ اَنَا عِنۡدَ ظَنِّ عَبۡدِيۡ بِيۡ ’ i.e., ‘I am as My bondsman thinks of Me.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 541, Hadees 7405)

Keep your attention towards the Divine mercy and blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and listen to another beautiful parable regarding forgiveness.

It is narrated, a Bedouin humbly asked the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will call the creation to account? The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. He humbly asked, ‘Will He call (the creation) to account, himself?’ The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Yes’. Thereafter that Bedouin smiled. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked the reason for his smile. He humbly said, ‘ اِنَّ الۡكَرِيۡمَ اِذَا قَدَرَ عَفَا وَاِذَا حَاسَبَ سَامَحَ ’ When a benevolent (person) has power over someone, he forgives, when he calls him to account, he overlooks . The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘This Bedouin has spoken the truth. Understand this, that no one is more benevolent than Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the most Benevolent of all.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 262)

لاج رکھ لے گنہگاروں کی نام رحمٰن ہے ترا یا رَبّ

عیب میرے نہ کھول محشر میں نام ستار ہے ترا یا رَبّ

بے سبب بخش دے نہ پوچھ عمل نام غفار ہے ترا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Take part with enthusiasm in the 12 Zayli Madani works for refraining from sins and propagating the calling towards righteousness. One of the Zayli Madani works is also a Madani In’amaat. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would not only make the accountability themselves but also persuade others as Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘O people make accountability of your deeds before the doomsday fall and you are held accountable of them.’

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp.56)

In this sinful era, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has provided a mechanism for performing good deeds in the form of a questionnaire namely ‘Madani In’amaat’, a comprehensive blend of Shari’ah and Tareeqah. There are 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers, 63 for Islamic sisters, 92 for male Islamic students, 83 for female Islamic students, 40 for Madani children. Similarly, Madani In’amaat have also been formed for special Islamic brothers (i.e. blind, mute and deaf) and prisoners. Madani In’amaat cards can be bought from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. After going through them thoroughly, you will be aware that it is a systematic mechanism of self-accountability. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, hurdles in the path of becoming pious and avoiding sins are removed by virtue of acting upon Madani In’amaat.

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to cultivate the habit of earning virtues; getting rid of malice & jealousy and other inner self maladies; developing brotherhood amongst one another; attaining pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; awakening the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ within us, raising deep yearning for the protection of Iman; frightening ourselves of the torment in the grave and Hell; adopting Sunnahs; igniting the love of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and attaining the neighbourhood of the Beloved Rasool, associate with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ with the blessings of this Madani environment, many people, immersed in sins came towards the right path. Let us listen to a Madani parable:

Here is a summary of the account given by an Islamic brother. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I love Madani In’amaat and I do Fikr-e-Madinah every day. Once I travelled with devotees of Rasool in a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami, a global & non-political movement of the Quran and Sunnah.

Our Qafilah reached Baluchistan (Pakistan). It was in this Qafilah that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opened the door of mercy for this sinner. When I slept at night, I saw the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream. His blessed lips began to move, and these words were uttered, ‘I will take with me into Heaven all those who carry out Fikr-e-Madinah everyday in the Madani Qafilah.’

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the Heavenly observations of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is narrated that during the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some incredibly towering palaces in Jannah and upon inquiring about them, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: These are for those who suppress their anger, tolerate and forgive people and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes those who do favours.

(Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 1, pp. 405, Hadees 3011)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the good news of grand palaces in Jannah, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given to those people who suppress their anger! Anger is a part of human nature and is an involuntary action that leads to conflict and discord, breaking relationships between brothers, divorce between husband and wife, hatred with each other and even massacres. When something is said that is contrary to one’s mood or temperament or something is done that is against his temperament on such an occasion, it usually leads to anger. At that time we should be patient and control our anger, because it is an attribute of the pious people to forgive and tolerate and to suppress their anger when they are angry. This attribute of the pious people has been mentioned in Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, that they do not lose control when in a state of anger, but they suppress the Nafsaani anger despite having the power of displaying their anger, they forgive the mistakes of their subordinates or even the oppression of criminals, therefore, despite having the ability, they do not take revenge of their Nafs. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much those righteous people who do not harm others, but benefit others, and He will give them the reward for their good deeds. If they perform good deeds according to their ability, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give them reward according to His Grandeur. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 4, pp. 187)

Remember! The act of forgiving a person who makes a mistake, despite having the ability to take revenge, is the best habit to develop, in doing so our society will become a place of peace, and conflicts and riots will come to an end. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the virtue of suppressing our anger:

1. The one who becomes angry, but thereafter becomes patient, then he becomes deserving of the love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Al-Kamil fi Du’afa-ir-Rijal, vol. 8, pp.112)

2. The one, who suppresses his anger despite having the ability to take revenge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will call him before the people so that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ can give him the authority to choose any of the Hoors (pure maidens) of Paradise.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 462, Raqm 4186)

3. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The bravest amongst you, is the one who controls himself when he is in a state of anger, and the most tolerant is the one who forgives despite having the ability to take revenge.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 207, Hadees 7694)

حُسنِ اَخلَاق اور نَرمی دو دُور ہو خُوئے اِشتِعَال آقا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw tents similar to domes made of pearls with soil of musk in Jannah. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم inquired from Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: ‘ لِمَنۡ هٰذَا يَا جِبۡرِيۡل ’ i.e., O Jibra`eel! For whom is this made? He humbly said, ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! This is for the Imams and Muazzins of your Ummah [nation].’

(Al-Musnad, vol. 3, pp. 321, Hadees 1428)

During the glorious night of Mi’raaj, the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by a person who was covered in the Noor of the blessed ‘Arsh. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم inquired, ‘Who is he?’ ‘Is he an angel?’ The reply was, ‘No’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then asked, ‘Is he a Prophet?’ The reply was, ‘No’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘Who is he then?’ The reply came,

قَدۡ اَفۡلَحَ الۡمُؤۡ مِنُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۱﴾ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ فِیۡ صَلَا تِہِمۡ خٰشِعُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۲﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ عَنِ اللَّغۡوِ مُعۡ ـ رِضُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۳﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِلزَّکٰوۃِ فٰعِلُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۴﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِفُرُوۡجِہِمۡ حٰفِظُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۵﴾ اِلَّا عَلٰۤی اَزۡوَاجِہِمۡ اَوۡ مَا مَلَکَتۡ اَیۡمَا نُہُمۡ فَاِ نَّہُمۡ غَیۡرُ مَلُوۡ مِیۡنَ ۚ﴿۶﴾ فَمَنِ ابۡتَغٰی وَرَآءَ ذٰلِکَ فَاُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡعٰدُوۡنَ ۚ﴿۷﴾ وَالَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِاَمٰنٰتِہِمۡ وَ عَہۡدِہِمۡ رٰعُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۸﴾ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ عَلٰی صَلَوٰ تِہِمۡ یُحَافِظُوۡنَ ۘ﴿۹﴾ اُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الۡوٰرِثُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۱۰﴾ الَّذِیۡنَ یَرِثُوۡنَ الۡفِرۡدَوۡسَ ؕ ہُمۡ فِیۡہَا خٰلِدُوۡنَ ﴿۱۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Succ essful indeed are the believers. Those who humbly cry in their prayers. And who do not incline towards indecent matters. And who pay the (obligatory) charity. And who guard their private organs. Except from their wives or the legal bondwomen that they possess, for then there is no blame upon them. So whoever desires more than these two – they are crossing the limits. And those who keep proper regard for their trusts and their pledges. And who guard their prayers. They are the inheritors. Those who will get the inheritance of Paradise; they will abide in it forever. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, verse 1-11)

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that all these qualities such as offering Salah with humility and presence of heart and mind; turning away from dirty, false and evil vain talk, falsehood, and all that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden; guarding the private parts, avoiding transgressing the due limits of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping the trusts and covenants of the bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, these can make one deserving of Jannat-ul-Firdaus. We too should cultivate these qualities in ourselves so that we could also become deserving of Jannat-ul- Firdaus.

Remember! Firdaus is the best and the highest part of Jannah. Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has

compulsory upon you all the time. If you do this, indeed you will be granted such blessings that you will be admired for.’ (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 168)

گدا بھی مُنتظر ہے خُلد میں نیکوں کی دعوت کا

خُدا دن خَیر سے لاۓ سَخی کے گھر ضِیافَت کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is unlimited and infinite. We should have hope in the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for our forgiveness, but it should also be remembered that if we do not fulfil the basic demands of faith, if we miss the Faraaid and Wajibat, have evil thoughts in our minds, are engrossed in attaining worldly pleasures, and then keeping in mind the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we also hope for forgiveness, then surely this is foolishness. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَلۡاَحۡمَقُ مَنۡ اَتۡبَعَ نَفۡسَه ٗ هَوَاهَا وَ تَمَنّٰي عَلٰي اللّٰهِ الۡجَنَّ ةَ ’ A foolish person is he who follows his Nafsaani (Inner) desires and hopes for Paradise from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 207-208, Hadees 2467)

Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Mu’aaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘According to me, the biggest deception is that when a person, hoping for forgiveness, without feeling ashamed, is busy committing sins and without His عَزَّوَجَلَّ worship he hopes for His عَزَّوَجَلَّ closeness and by planting the seed of Hell that person looks for the harvest of Paradise and despite committing sins, he desires the home of the obedient people. Furthermore, this person awaits rewards without doing good deeds and hopes from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, despite this person’s injustice and violence. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then recited these couplets: You hope for salvation, but do not follow the paths leading to it, surely a ship does not sail on land.

کام زِنداں کے کیے اور ہمیں شوقِ گلزار ہے کیا ہونا ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! The loss of having useless hopes is that,

1. A person becomes bold in committing sins. The habit of accepting such destructive things from Satan after committing every sin makes a person heedless of his previous sins and he becomes bold and courageous in committing sins in the future.

2. We do not like good advice, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, sometimes we express our feelings of not having any concern for the verses and Ahadees containing that warn us of punishments.

3. As such people are in fear of being criticized for such thoughts, they follow the advice of their Nafs to get rid of this fear and try to convince others by giving reasons so that they may stay safe from them. Now the one listening to them if he accepts their reasons, it is considered to be a very huge success. Unfortunately, they do not understand that by doing this, they help Satan attract other people as well to this path. Therefore, besides hoping for the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ take interest in performing good deeds and try to protect yourself from sins.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Currently, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is the best source of protecting one from sins, developing an interest to do good deeds, it makes a person have hope in the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whilst it makes him terrified of the punishments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, therefore, considering this opportunity sufficient, we too must always associate ourselves with this Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated, ‘Students are a precious asset to a country and future leaders of the nation. If they are trained in Shari’ah and Sunnah, then divine fear and devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will prevail everywhere in society.’ In order to familiarize teachers and students with the Sunnah of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Madani activities are being performed in educational institutes like religious Madaris, schools, colleges and universities. Countless students attend Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’aat and travel with Madani Qafilahs.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Several impious students who were fond of worldly sciences have now become regular in Salah and are following Sunnah. Furthermore, ‘Faizan of Quran & Hadees Course’ is also conducted in vacations for the religious training of students.

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the heavenly observations of Divine Mercy that took place on the night of Mi’raaj, through its blessings we have learnt:

§ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made three streams in Paradise—one of His mercy, second of blessing and the third one of pure wine. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will quench the thirst of the inhabitants of Paradise with these streams.

§ Those, who sincerely repented of their sins, had been shown such Divine Mercy that by diving into the stream of Divine Mercy the darkness of their faces was washed away, then they dived into the stream of Divine blessing, their colour further improved, and then when they drank from the stream of Tahoor (pure) Wine, their faces became absolutely bright. Remember, the reason how they got rid of the darkness of sins was that they sincerely sought repentance from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ of their sins (in the world), and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted their repentance and illuminated their faces.

§ Paradise has 100 levels; Firdaus is the most superior Paradise. Begging for Jannat-ul-Firdaus has been mentioned in the blessed Hadees.

§ For His righteous bondsmen, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has prepared such gifts in Paradise which no one has ever seen, nor has anyone heard of them, nor has their thought ever crossed anyone’s mind.

§ During the Bayan, we heard about the fortunate ones who were blessed with Paradise. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also include us among them!

§ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Some people will arrive at the pond of Kawsar, I will recognize them due to abundance of Salat (Durood). Therefore, we should recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi in abundance.

§ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw tomb-like tents made of pearls whose soil was of musk; this is for the Aimmah (Imams) and Muazzins of the Ummah of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us for the sake of His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to perform all those deeds, which will lead us to the ever-lasting gardens of Paradise and enable us to protect ourselves from all those acts, which will lead us to the dark ditch of Hell.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I now take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Paradise.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some important Madani pearls about speaking from the booklet written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه named ‘ 101 Madani Pearls ’:

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before them.

1. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

2. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a new born baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

3. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

4. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

5. Do not laugh while talking. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never laughed.

6. Excessive talking and frequent laughing affect one’s respect.

7. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When you see someone blessed with disinterest in the world and (the attribute of) speaking less, adopt his nearness and company, as Hikmah (wisdom) is given to him.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, pp. 422, vol. 4, Hadees 4101)

8. A blessed Hadees says, ‘The one remaining silent received salvation.’

(Jami’ Tirmiżi, pp. 225, vol. 4, Hadees 2509)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

