اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

With the blessings of celebrating Milad

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَـوَیْتُ سُنَّتَ الاعْتِکَاف

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ غَدًا رَاضِیًا فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ Whoever likes this [thing] that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased with him when he is

presented in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2226)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Safar-ul-Muzaffar is coming to an end. After this, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the blessed luminous month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal

will be among us. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this blessed month, millions of devotees of Rasool all across the world celebrate with great pomp and circumstance the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and express their devotion and reverence. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this relation, Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat are conducted by the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e- Islami, in various cities and countries. Beautiful parables regarding the blessed Seerah and different blessed attributes of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are mentioned in these Ijtima’aat. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ too, we will be privileged to listen to the faith enlightening Ayahs of the Holy Quran, Tafseer [commentary of the Holy Quran], blessed Ahadees, parables, narrations and sayings of the blessed Islamic scholars in relation to the reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, we will also try to derive Madani pearls gathered from it and implement in our lives too, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Reverence to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم became the cause of forgiveness

Sayyiduna Wahb Bin Munabbih رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated that there was a person in Bani Israel who spent 200 years of his life disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and finally died in the same very state of disobedience. The Bani Israel held his dead body by his leg, dragged it and threw it on the pile of garbage. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to His Rasool Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام to pick him up from there and perform his funeral Salah after his funeral rites. When Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام asked people about him, they testified that he was a man of ill character. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly requested in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Bani Israel are testifying that he was a man of a bad character who had spent 200 years of his life disobeying You.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام that “he was indeed a man of a bad character but it was his habit that whenever he would open the blessed Torah to recite and see the blessed name of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), he would kiss it and touch it on his eyes and would recite Salat upon him. That’s why, I valued this action of his, forgave his sins and

performed his Nikah with 70 Hoors (beautiful maidens of Paradise). (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 4, pp. 45, Hadees 4695)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! This faith-refreshing parable has freshened up the hearts and minds of the believers. Just ponder! That person who remained indulged in sins for a long time without performing any good deeds, but only due to respecting the blessed name of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he received such a gift that Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, arranged his funeral rites. All his past sins were forgiven and he became deserving of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Just ponder! When an Ummati of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام deserved to be forgiven by the virtue of respecting the blessed name of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then how much infinite mercies of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would shower upon that person of the Ummat-e-Muhammadiyyah who not only has respect for the blessed name but also has great respect for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and everything that is related to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, it has also been learnt from this narration that kissing the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the intention of reverence is not only permissible but also a source of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Remember! After embracing faith, reverence for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم holds immense importance. Many blessed Ayahs prove the importance and need of the reverence to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, it is stated in the Ayah 8 and 9 of Surah Al-Fath, part 26:

اِنَّاۤ اَرْسَلْنٰكَ شَاهِدًا وَّ مُبَشِّرًا وَّ نَذِیْرًاۙ(۸) لِّتُؤْمِنُوْا بِاللّٰهِ وَ رَسُوْلِهٖ وَ تُعَزِّرُوْهُ وَ تُوَقِّرُوْهُؕ-وَ تُسَبِّحُوْهُ بُكْرَةً وَّ اَصِیْلًا(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have indeed sent you (O Beloved) as present and seeing (Haazir and Naazir) and giving glad tidings and warning. In

order that, O people, you may believe in Allah and His Messenger, and honour and revere the Messenger (Prophet Muhammad), and you should glorify Allah, in the morning and evening. (Part 26, Surah Al-Fath, Ayah 8, 9)

Summary of what A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has said regarding this blessed Ayah is as follows: ‘O Muslims! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ mentioned three purposes of sending the religion of Islam and revealing the Holy Quran: Firstly, to embrace faith upon Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; secondly, to have reverence for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; thirdly, to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Have a look at the beautiful order of all these three things. First of all, faith has been mentioned and His own worship has been mentioned last, whilst reverence for His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been stated in the middle as reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will not benefit without faith.’

Dear Islamic brothers! From the abovementioned blessed Ayahs and the blessed sayings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it has become clear that reverence to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the very essence of the faith. If a person without honouring the greatness of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم makes efforts to perform other good deeds, none of his deeds will be acceptable. A small defect in the reverence of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can become the cause of destroying all his good deeds. As it has been stated in the 2 nd Ayah of Surah Al-Hujurat, part 26:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا لَا تَرْفَعُوْۤا اَصْوَاتَكُمْ فَوْقَ صَوْتِ النَّبِیِّ وَ لَا تَجْهَرُوْا لَهٗ بِالْقَوْلِ كَجَهْرِ بَعْضِكُمْ لِبَعْضٍ اَنْ تَحْبَطَ اَعْمَالُكُمْ وَ اَنْتُمْ لَا تَشْعُرُوْنَ(۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Do not raise your voices higher than the voice of this Conveyor of the unseen (Prophet Muhammad), and nor speak aloud in his august court just like you speak aloud to one another amongst yourselves. In case your deeds go to waste whilst you are unaware.

(Part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, Ayah 2)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, Hakim-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: We come to know that even a very minor element of disrespect to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an act of unbelief, as it is the act of unbelief that destroys good deeds. Let alone other acts of disrespect, good deeds are destroyed even if someone speaks in a loud voice in his blessed court. The meaning of the Ayah is that one should neither speak loudly before him صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, nor call him out with ordinary titles which are used to call each other. One should not say uncle, father, brother and Bashar [ordinary human being], rather say ‘ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰه ’ [Rasoolullah], شَفِيۡعُ الۡمُذۡنِبِيۡن [Shafi’-ul-Muznibeen]. (Noor-ul-Irfan, pp. 823)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that the sacred book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is mentioning the greatness and dignity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and teaching us the manners of visiting his blessed court that just speaking loudly in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a grave sin due to which all the good deeds get destroyed.

Renowned commentator of the Holy Quran Hakim-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The courtly manners of worldly kings are manmade, but the manners of the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have been made and taught by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, these manners are not only for humans, but are for all the jinns, humans and angels. Angels also used to visit the blessed court after seeking permission. These manners are forever. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 823)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! All the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are respectable. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded (us) to observe reverence for the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام at various places in the Holy Quran and has also made a promise of favours and blessings to those who obey these commands . Therefore, it is stated in the 12 th Ayah of Surah Al-Mai`dah, part 6:

وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And believe in My Messengers and respect them, and lend Allah a good loan, so I will surely remove your sins, and I will surely admit you to Gardens; beneath which rivers flow.

(Part 6, Surah Al-Mai`dah, Ayah 12)

After having faith in the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in particular, those who have reverence for him are blessed with the glad tidings of success. Therefore, it is stated in the 157 th Ayah of Surah Al-A’raf, part 9:

فَالَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا بِهٖ وَ عَزَّرُوْهُ وَ نَصَرُوْهُ وَ اتَّبَعُوا النُّوْرَ الَّذِیْۤ اُنْزِلَ مَعَهٗۤۙ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُوْنَ۠(۱۵۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So those who believe in him, and honour him, and help him, and follow the light (i.e. Quran) which was sent down with him, it is they who are successful. (Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 157)

Remember! These rewards will be attained only when we consider the greatness and respect of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and the respect of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in particular, as a part of our faith and refrain from even the slightest form of their disrespect. While teaching us how to respect the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden us to raise our voices in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as forbidden us to call the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out in an ordinary way. Therefore, it is stated in the 63 rd Ayah of Surah An-Noor, part 18:

لَا تَجْعَلُوْا دُعَآءَ الرَّسُوْلِ بَیْنَكُمْ كَدُعَآءِ بَعْضِكُمْ بَعْضًاؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: (O people!) Do not make the calling of the Messenger amongst yourselves just like one calls the other amongst yourselves. (Part 18, Surah An-Noor, Ayah 63)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated: Commentators also mention one meaning [of this Ayah] that whenever someone respectfully calls him out, then he should do so with utmost humbleness, respect and reverence using the reverend titles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم like ‘Ya Nabiyyallah! Ya Rasoolallah! Ya Habeeballah!’ in a soft voice and a humble manner.

(Tafseer Khaza`in-ul- ‘Irfan, part 18, Surah An-Noor, Taht-al-Ayah 63)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما has said: First the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was called as ‘Ya Muhammad’, ‘Ya Abal Qaasim’ (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbade from saying these [words] to show the reverence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would say ‘Ya Nabiyyallah’, ‘Ya Rasoolallah’.

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 19)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! How important the matter of reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not even like the fact that anyone addresses His Beloved Habeeb (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) by taking his name. The Islamic scholars have explained: To call out Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by taking his name is Haraam. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 157)

Remember! The reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not only limited to his blessed apparent life, but it is essential for every Muslim to accept his eminence and greatness until the world exists.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Respect and reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after his apparent life and apparent demise i.e. in every state, is compulsory and fundamental for the Ummah; because the more reverence to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم increases in the hearts, the more Noor (light) of faith will keep increasing.

(Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 216)

Dear Islamic brothers! We came to know that love for the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and showing great respect towards him in every matter are the means of increase in faith as well as the root of faith. Try to understand it from the following example that if the roots of a tree are cut, the tree dries out and its fruits and flowers decay and fall off. In the same way, reverence for the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is like the root of the plant of faith. Without this, the plant of faith cannot flourish and its fruits and flowers in the shape of good deeds get wasted. Therefore, in order to preserve your good deeds and grow the tree of faith further, consider the respect of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as compulsory. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم displayed such examples of the reverence of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which cannot be found in the history. Let’s listen to a few parables of devotion to the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of those ardent devotees:

1. It has been narrated that the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would knock on the door of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with their nails due to the great respect and reverence. (Sharh Shifa by Mulla ‘Ali Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 71)

2. Likewise, in the year of the Treaty of Hudaybiyah, the Quraysh sent Sayyiduna ‘Urwah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who had not embraced Islam at that time) to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He saw that when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform Wudu, the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would move forward so quickly to take the water of Wudu that it seemed as if they would start fighting with each other. When the Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed sacred saliva would come out or when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would clean his blessed nose, the blessed

companions would take it into their hands and rub it on their faces and bodies (in order to gain blessings from it). Whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would command them to do, they would immediately obey. When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would converse, they would remain silent and due to the element of respect of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they would not look at the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by raising their eyes. When Sayyiduna ‘Urwah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went back to the people of Makkah, he said to them: O group of Quraysh! I have been to the courts of Qaisar [Caesar], Cyrus [Kisra] and Negus [Najjashi]; but by Lord Almighty! I have never seen any king with such dignity and majesty among his nation as I have seen for (Sayyiduna) Muhammad (Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) among his Companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم . (Shifa, vol. 2, pp. 38)

3. Once, the uncle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, was asked: ‘ اَنۡتَ اَكۡبَرُ اَمۡ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰه ’ Are you older or the Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) ? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: ‘ هُوَ اَكۡبَرُ مِنِّيۡ وَاَنَا كُنۡتُ قَبۡلَه ٗ ’ i.e. He (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is indeed greater, I was just born before him .

(Kanz-ul-Ummal, vol. 13, pp. 224, Hadees 37344)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how great love and respect the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that despite being older in age, they would still refer greatness towards Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, we too should not only become the embodiment of devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also relate the beautiful parables of the blessed Companions’ devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to our children so that the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also embeds firmly in their hearts right from their childhood.

For this purpose, reading the 274-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, titled Sahabah Kiraam ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool will be highly beneficial. In addition to this, with the blessings of associating yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, travelling with three days Madani Qafilahs every month, acting upon the Madani In’amaat and attending Madani

Muzakarahs and weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the treasure of the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be achieved.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Daurah’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Another great means of attaining the love of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also ‘Madani Daurah” (Madani visit). In a ‘Madani Daurah’, invitation towards righteousness is conveyed by paying visits to houses and shops. In Zayli Halqahs, along with the weekly Madani Daurahs, ‘Madani Daurah’ is conducted daily according to the schedule of the Madani Qafilah.

1. Conveying invitation towards righteousness is such an important obligation that all the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, in fact master of all the Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, was also sent in this world for this very purpose. These sacred personalities went through so many troubles and difficulties but duly fulfilled the great task of conveying the invitation towards righteousness and forbidding evil.

2. Due to the blessings of ‘Madani Daurah’, there has been Madani reformation in the lives of many people.

3. Due to the blessings of ‘Madani Daurah’, number of Salah-offering people increases in Masjid.

4. ‘Madani Daurah’ is an excellent tool to associate with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, those people of the society having ill character.

5. Due to the blessings of ‘Madani Daurah’, Islamic brothers attain the privilege of acting upon the Sunnahs in addition to the Faraaid. Therefore, we shall also spare time and fully take active part in this great Madani activity.

اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The booklet of this Madani activity named ‘Madani Daurah’ has also been published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. In order to learn further important organisational information regarding Madani Daurah, read this booklet. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of Madani Daurah.

Went towards the Masjid

A Madani Qafilah of the devotees of Rasool reached the city of Bab-ul-Islam Sindh, Tando Aadam, for 3 days. After Salat-ul-‘Asr, deaf and mute Islamic brothers went for a Madani Daurah with other (normal) Islamic brothers. They reached youngsters playing cricket in a ground nearby the Masjid. One Islamic brother told them that we also have those Islamic brothers with us who are deprived of the faculty of hearing and speaking. They will convey you the invitation towards righteousness in the sign language. Deaf and mute Islamic brothers conveyed them the invitation towards righteousness in the sign language and persuaded them to come to the Masjid along with them. Thereafter, other Islamic brother also persuaded them. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, after listening to the invitation towards righteousness, the cricket playing youngsters walked towards the Masjid with the Muballigh [preacher] with their heads lowered. This way, due to the blessings of the ‘Madani Daurah’, number of the Salah-offering people increased.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The way reverence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is important, in the same way, reverence of the blessed Companions, wives, family members, offspring and sacred relics which are associated with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, including the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is also very important. Usually, the Zikr of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done in all Islamic gatherings; but especially in the Ijtima of Milad, the blessed Zikr of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is done, the glory and dignity of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is mentioned, and the beautiful parables of the blessed life of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

are relayed. Therefore, celebrating Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is also a form of revering beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 9, pp. 56)

Sayyiduna Imam Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Celebrating Milad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is showing reverence for the status of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Haawi lil-Fatawa, vol. 1, pp. 222)

Similarly, Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Yusuf Saalihi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Celebrating Milad brings about the love and reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 1, pp. 365)

We are fortunate that soon اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be privileged with the blessed month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal. As soon as this blessed month arrives, devotees of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم rejoice from the bottom of their heart and busy themselves in preparing for the Jashn (celebrations of) Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi. And why should it not be done? As upon the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the entire universe became joyous; the ‘Arsh rejoiced; the Kursi also became happy and the jinns were stopped from going to the sky. They started saying to one another: ‘Undoubtedly we had to take great pains in our way.’ The angels started reciting Tasbeeh with extreme pleasure; the winds began blowing and swaying with ecstasy and exposed the clouds; branches in the gardens started bowing down and the calls of ‘ اَهۡلًا وَّ سَهۡلًا مَرۡحَبَا ’ were heard from every corner of the universe. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 243) In short, arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the complete source of mercy and blessings.

Noor at time of birth

Noor emerged from the blessed body of the mother of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that illuminated the palaces of ‘Basra’.

(Al-Mawahib, vol. 1, pp. 167)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Celebrating Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is a sacred act and those who celebrate it are blessed with countless Islamic and worldly blessings from Allah Almighty. It is stated in Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan:

‘The blessings of a blessed gathering of Milad remains in the home for the whole year.’ (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 9, pp. 57) Similarly, Sayyiduna Imam Qastalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘One of the proven blessing of conducting a gathering of Milad in the days of the blessed month is that peace and tranquillity prevails throughout that year. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on the one who celebrates the nights of the Milad month like Eid.’ (Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 148)

One who celebrates Milad has also been given the glad tidings of Paradise in addition to worldly blessings. The famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Shah ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Reward of those who celebrate the blessed night of the arrival of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make them enter Jannat-un-Na’eem by His Grace and Mercy. Muslims have always been celebrating the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they invite guests out of happiness, cook food, and give Sadaqah (charity) in abundance. They express their joy openly and spend whole-heartedly, hold Zikr of the blessed birth of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, decorate their houses and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ showers His Mercy on them due to the blessing of all these righteous deeds.’ (Masabata min-As-Sunnah, pp. 74)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that how pleased Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets with those who celebrate the Milad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and what great rewards and honours He Almighty blesses them with. Therefore, decorate your homes, Masajid, shops, vehicles and also your localities/ Mahallah with green flags to rejoice over the blessed birth of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Display loads of lights or light up at least 12 bulbs. Attend the Ijtima’-e-Zikr-o-Na’at on the 12 th night of Rabi’ ul Awwal with the intention of gaining reward, and at the time of dawn, welcome the dawn of blessings with tearful eyes, raising green flags whilst reciting Salat and Salam. If possible, observe Sawm on the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal as well, as our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to celebrate his Yaum-e-Wiladat by observing Sawm every Monday.

Sayyiduna Abu Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked about the Sawm of Monday. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘I was born on this very day and revelation descended upon me on this very day.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 591, Hadees 1162)

Remember! The commandment of rejoicing over the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been proven from the Holy Quran. Therefore, it has been stated in the Holy Quran, part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah No. 58:

قُلْ بِفَضْلِ اللّٰهِ وَ بِرَحْمَتِهٖ فَبِذٰلِكَ فَلْیَفْرَحُوْاؕ-هُوَ خَیْرٌ مِّمَّا یَجْمَعُوْنَ(۵۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Say you (O Beloved), ‘Only Allah’s Bounty and His Mercy; and only upon it they should rejoice.’ That is better than all their (accumulated) wealth. (Part 11, Surah Yunus, Ayah 58)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, the renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: O Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! After giving this glad tidings to people, also command them to rejoice openly upon receiving the Grace and Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Generally, rejoice all the time, but special celebration should be made on those dates when these blessings were granted i.e. Ramadan, in particular, Shab-e-Qadr and Rabi’-ul-Awwal, in particular, the 12 Rabi-ul-Awwal. As the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, i.e. the Holy Quran, descended in Ramadan and ‘ رَحْمَۃٌ لِّلْعَالَمِیْن ’ (the mercy for the entire universe), i.e. the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born in Rabi’-ul-Awwal. To celebrate this grace and mercy is better than worldly accumulated possessions, money, home, property, livestock, agriculture and even children etc.; because the benefit of this joy is not personal but national, not temporary but forever, not only limited to this world but also in the Hereafter, not only physical but also spiritual. It has no destruction but Sawab (reward). (Tafseer Na’eemi, vol. 11, pp. 369)

Belief of the Ahl-us-Sunnah

Dear Islamic brothers! According to the belief of Ahl-us-Sunnah, the blessed gathering of Milad is one of the most excellent acts of Mustahabbat [commendable actions] and one of the most superior virtuous acts.

(Al-Haq-ul-Mubeen, pp. 100)

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah, Maulana, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘The blessed Milad, that is to say,

talking about of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, is permissible. In the same relation, his صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم excellence, miracles, Seerah, attributes, blessed matters of his life, childhood and apparent arrival in this world are also mentioned in the same gatherings. These facts are also mentioned in Ahadees as well as the Holy Quran. If Muslims mention these narrations in their congregations or particularly hold a congregation to deliver such narrations, then there is no reason to declare these congregations impermissible. Inviting people to attend such congregations is inviting them towards goodness. The way announcements are made for speeches and congregations, advertisements and leaflets are published and distributed, articles are published in the newspapers, and the speeches and congregations are not declared to be impermissible due to these means of advertisements, in the same way, this Majlis of blessed Zikr [Milad] cannot be declared impermissible and an innovation if invitations are sent out for it too.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vo. 3, pp. 644)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi and Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic brothers! Which other day would be more a ‘Day of Gift’ for Muslims than the day of the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Because all the enlivening and blessings of the universe are bestowed upon us by the virtue of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; and this day is even greater than the day of Eids as both the Eids have also been bestowed upon us by its sake. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi is celebrated in Pakistan as well as in many countries in a dignified manner every year at countless locations. On the night of 12 Rabi’-ul-Awwal, a great Ijtima’-e-Milad is held and on the day of Eid, i.e. 12 th Rabi-ul-Awwal, numerous Milad procession rallies are held resounding with chants of ‘ Marhaba Ya Mustafa ’, in which millions of devotees of Rasool participate.

The department of ‘Imamat course’

Therefore, in order to celebrate Jashn-e-Wiladat, you too remain associated with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and support Dawat-e-Islami to propagate the Sunnahs . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is conveying the call towards righteousness and propagating Sunnahs all across the world through its more or less 104 departments. Out of these departments, one department is also the ‘Majlis Imamat course’. This department makes Islamic brothers undergo the Imamat course who desire to become an Imam. While mentioning the importance of the Imamat course, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ states: “The one willing to become Imam should definitely do the Imamat course even if he is a Madani, because in the Imamat course, one is edified specifically on the rulings of Imamat.’ After knowing the details of what one learns in the Imamat course surrounded in the company of the devotees of Rasool, then perhaps every such Muslim who has the passion of Deen would wish that only if he is also blessed with the privilege of doing the Imamat course. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the Imamat course, one is edified beautifully over the basic beliefs. In the Imamat course, rulings regarding Wudu, Ghusl, Salah, Imamat, shrouding/funeral and burial, purity and impurity, conducting someone’s marriage and donations etc., are taught. In the Imamat course, reciting the Holy Quran with the proper rules of articulations is taught. In the Imamat course, moral edification is also provided. In the Imamat course, one is also thoroughly edified to carry out the Madani activities. At the end of the course, certificate is also given. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to the blessings of the Imamat course, Islamic brothers leave as Imam and attain a dignified status in the society. Therefore, for whomsoever it is possible should definitely attain the knowledge of Deen through the Imamat course. May Allah Almighty enable every Islamic brother associated with Dawat-e-Islami to attain the privilege of doing the Imamat course.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction of the booklet “The Dawn of Blessings”

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain further blessings of Milad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, reading the booklet “The Dawn of Blessings” of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ will be extremely beneficial. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this booklet contains proofs over celebrating Milad and taking out the Milad procession rallies in the month of Rabi’ ul Awwal, method of taking part in it, good intentions regarding conducting a gathering of Milad, Madani parables and various other Madani pearls. Therefore, purchase this booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Read it yourself and persuade others to do so as well. This booklet can also be read, downloaded, and printed out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has blessed the devotees of Milad with some important Madani pearls in his letter. Let us also go through some of the Madani pearls:

Madani pearls of the letter of Attar

1. On the first night of Rabi’-un-Noor, make this announcement three times in all the Masajid: ‘Congratulations to all Islamic brothers and sisters! The moon of Rabi’-un-Noor has been sighted.’

2. All the devotees of the Rasool including Nigran and Zimmahdaran should travel with a Madani Qafilah for at least three days particularly in this blessed month. Islamic sisters should deliver Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat for at least thirty days in their homes (only to the ladies and Maharim) and then make the intention to continue it after Rabi’-un-Noor as well.

3. If the flag bears lettering or image of Na’layn (image of the blessed shoe-sole of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), make sure that the flag neither

tears nor falls on the ground. Further, as soon as the month of Rabi’-un-Noor ends, remove the flags immediately. If there is risk of disrespect, use simple green flags i.e. without that sacred image/lettering.

(Sag-e-Madinah displays only simple green flags at his home named Bayt-ul-Fana [the dying home]).

4. If possible, buy 12 booklets titled ‘ The Dawn of Blessings ’ and 112 pamphlets or at least 12 pamphlets titled ‘12 Madani pearls for celebrating the Milad of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and gift them especially to the leaders of the organizations that arrange Milad gatherings.

5. Spend the 12 th night in Ijtima’-e-Zikr-o-Na’at and welcome the ‘the dawn of blessings’ with tearful eyes at the time of breaking of dawn, raising your flags and reciting Salat and Salam. After Salat-ul-Fajr, say Salam and congratulate each other warmly on this grand occasion of Eid and continue to do so for the rest of the day.

6. Our Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would celebrate his birth by observing Sawm on Mondays. Keeping this in mind, you should also observe Sawm on 12 th Rabi’-un-Noor and participate in the Madani procession carrying green flags. Remain in the state of Wudu as long as possible. Recite Na’ats, Salat and Salam and walk grandly with your gaze lowered. Do not give the chance to critics by committing any cheap act.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding condolence

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls regarding condolence from the booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ titled “ Method of Becoming Pious ”: Firstly, listen to the two sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The one who condoles a grief-stricken person will attain the same reward as the grief-stricken person. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 338, Hadees 1075)

٭ The believer who condoles any of his grief-stricken brother, Allah Almighty will make him wear the attire of Karamah on the Day of Judgement. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 268, Hadees 1601)

٭ Condolence means: Giving the mind-set of observing patience to a grief-stricken person. Condoling is Masnoon [an act of Sunnah]. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 852)

٭ Condoling is also permissible even before the burial; but it is better to do so after the burial. This is when the household of the deceased do not start wailing and mourning. Otherwise, do so before the burial for comforting them. (Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 141)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of condolence will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 08 November 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding condolence

٭ The time of doing Ta’ziyat is till three days from the death and it is Makruh afterwards as the grieve will revive again [for the family members]. However, if the person doing Ta’ziyat and the family members are not present at the same place, or they are present but this person is unaware [of the situation], then there is no harm in doing Ta’ziyat afterwards. (Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 141)

٭ It is Mustahab to do Ta’ziyat with all the relatives of the deceased whether he is a child or an adult, man or a woman. However, only Maharim of a woman should do Ta’ziyat with her. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 852)

٭ Say the following while doing Ta’ziyat: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless you with patience and grant you great reward for this calamity, and may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive the deceased.

٭ Remember that it is impermissible and a sin to do Saug [mourning] of the deceased or not wear good clothes etc. on Eid due to Saug after the days of Saug [mourning] have passed. However, it is not a sin if someone does not wear good clothes due to any other [permissible] reason.

٭ It is unanimously agreed that Noha, i.e. to cry loudly after stating the attributes of the deceased exaggeratedly which is called ‘Bayn’, is Haraam. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 854)

٭ The doctors say that if (the person who is deeply grieved at the death of his loved one) does not cry at all at the death, he gets affected by a serious illness. Shedding tears takes away the heat of the heart.

Therefore, never stop one from crying like this (without doing Noha). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 501)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of guest for the host

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a of “guest for the host” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اَللّٰهُمَّ، بَارِكْ لَهُمْ فِی مَا رَزَقْتَهُمْ،وَاغْفِرْ لَهُمْ وَارْحَمْهُمْ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Give blessing in the sustenance that you provide them, and forgive them and shower mercy upon them.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1130, Hadees 2024; Khazeenah Rahmat, pp. 116)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

