Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Fire in grave . 4

Horrible well of dreadful valley in Hell 5

Torment of Hell and sufferings of the world . 6

Lightest punishment of Hell 7

Four sayings of Allah about Salah . 10

Salvation for the one who offered Salah with presence of heart and humility of body 12

Sins are wiped out by Salah . 12

Each Salah is expiation for the past sins . 13

Salah contains cure . 13

Blessing in sustenance . 14

Sada-e-Madinah . 14

Got Site for Faizan-e-Madinah . 15

A’la Hadrat’s devotion to Salah . 17

Salah prevents people from evils . 19

Mistakes committed in Salah . 21

Introduction of book ‘Laws of Salah’ 22

Summary of Bayan .. 22

Putting kohl: 4 Madani pearls . 23

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 25

2. All sins forgiven .. 25

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 26

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 26

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 26

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 27

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 27

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 27

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Importance of Salah

Along with Indication of Mistakes Committed during Salah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat 100 times upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and hellfire, and will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement .’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

کیوں کہوں بیکس ہوں میں، کیوں کہوں بے بس ہوں میں

تُم ہو میں تُم پر فِدا، تُم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Fire in grave

Sayyiduna ‘Amr Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A sister of a person died in Madinah Munawwarah, so she was buried after funeral rites. When his brother reached home he recalled that he had forgotten the bag of dirhams in the grave. He went to the grave with a person, removed the earth of the grave and found the bag. He then said to the one who was with him: You just get a little away so that I can see the condition of my sister. He removed a brick and saw that the fire was blazing in the grave. He closed the grave and went to his mother and asked about his sister. The mother replied: Your sister used to offer Salah after the stipulated time of the Salah and I think she also sometimes offered Salah without Wudu. Further, she used to spy on the secrets of the neighbours outside their doors when they were resting.

(Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 6, pp. 75, Hadees 97)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Here listen to a ruling that from this admonitory parable it has been understood that it is a very grave sin to become lazy in offering Salah which may bring about torment in the grave. We should also offer all five-time Salahs with zeal and enthusiasm in the Masjid with Jama’at and should not become lazy at all in offering Salah because it is a sign of hypocrites. When hypocrites used to stand up for Salah before believers, they used to stand up uninterestingly and lazily because they had no faith in their heart through which they would get yearning and joy for worship. They used to worship only to show off people. In Ayah 142 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated about them:

وَ اِذَا قَامُوْۤا اِلَى الصَّلٰوةِ قَامُوْا كُسَالٰىۙ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when they stand up for prayer, they do it unwillingly.

Regarding this blessed Ayah it has been mentioned in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Not offering Salah or only offering Salah in the presence of people, whereas not offering Salah in privacy or offering Salah with humility of heart and body in the presence of people and hastily in privacy or getting into different thoughts during Salah, not making any efforts to offer Salah with full concentration etc., are all signs of laziness. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 2 pp. 335)

Alas! Nowadays in our society, merely due to laziness, everyday Salahs are being missed, whereas the same laziness immediately turns to briskness for committing sins. There are some people who if miss one or few Salahs, they do not deliberately offer Salahs for weeks, but rather for months. If any Islamic brother making his individual effort persuades them to offer Salah, they respond: Now اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I will start offering Salah from the next Friday or I will start offering Salah regularly from the month of Ramadan. Thus they acknowledge openly without any shame or hesitation that they will continue to commit the grave sin of missing Salah until Friday or the sacred month of blessed Ramadan. Undoubtedly, all these are the disaster of having no fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and no yearning for worship; otherwise one who is overpowered by the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and has yarning for worship, offers Salah regularly at all costs and refrains from the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Missing Salah deliberately is a sin and an act leading to Hell. In Ayah 59 of Surah Maryam, part 16 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And after them came the unworthy successors who squandered prayer and pursued their own desires, so they will soon encounter the forest of Ghayy in Hell.

Horrible well of dreadful valley in Hell

Dear Islamic brothers! ‘ غَیّ ’ [Ghayy] has been mentioned in the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, it means, ‘a valley of Hell’. Sadr-ush-Shari’ah Mufti Muhammad

Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘Ghayy’ is a valley in the Hell which is the deepest and the most heated one; it has a well, named ‘ ہَبْ ہَبْ ’ [Hab Hab]. When the fire of the Hell is about to extinguish, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens this well due to which the fire of Hell blazes as usual (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated)

كُلَّمَا خَبَتْ زِدْنٰهُمْ سَعِیْرًا(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whenever it is about to extinguish, We will inflame it more for them. (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 96)

This well is for those who do not offer Salah, adulterers/fornicators, drinkers, usurers and for those who cause troubles to their parents.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 434)

Torment of Hell and sufferings of the world

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you listened that there is a valley in the Hell named ‘Ghayy’ which is the deepest and the most heated one and when the fire of the Hell is about to extinguish the valley is opened due to which the fire of the Hell begins to blaze again. Just ponder when a person who does not offer Salah will be put into this dangerous valley, what would happen to him?

Remember! Hell is the manifestation of Allah’s anger and wrath. The way His mercy and blessings have no end and beyond human intellect and comprehension, similarly, there is no end of the anger and wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Every painful thing, disease or trouble and grief which can be imagined such as pulling out the nails of a living person with an instrument, hitting someone by knives or sticks, smashing someone’s bones to pieces by running over him a heavy car, sprinkling salt and chilli over parts of the body after cutting them, peeling the skin of a living person, carrying out the operation of a person without making him unconscious or the pains of different types of diseases such as headache, fever, abdominal pain or dangerous diseases like heart attack, cancer, pain of kidney stone, itch, intense state of confusion, etc. etc., whatever imaginable worldly sufferings and tortures are extremely light as compared to the pains

and torments of the Hell. In short, if only one person suffers from all the diseases and calamities of the world, even then his suffering cannot become equal to the lightest torment of the Hell.

Lightest punishment of Hell

Let’s listen to the blessed saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the lightest punishment of Hell: The person who will be given the lightest torment of the Hell will be made to wear the shoes of fire, due to which his brain will boil as the copper pot boils. He will feel that he is being tormented the most though he is being made to suffer the lightest torment.

(Sahih Muslim pp. 111, Hadees 517)

Dear Islamic brothers! Fear the torment of Hell; have mercy on your weak bodies; get rid of laziness and while protecting yourself from sins start offering Salah. It is extremely sad that we miss Salah due to being occupied with useless talks and activities, and do not realize that we are constantly disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is bestowing lots of blessings upon us day and night without our asking, but we do not offer Salah only five times a day in His court in the whole day. Alas! We recite Awraad and Wazaaif [invocations] told by people in order to protect ourselves from worldly diseases, worries and troubles, but do not comply even one time with the command of our Creator, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Who has commanded us to offer Salah hundreds of times in the Holy Quran. Alas! Despite having heard about the torments of the grave, terrors of the Hell and horrors of the Judgement Day we are still heedless.

Remember! Five-time Salah are Fard [obligatory] for every adult and sane Muslim man and woman. The one who does not consider Salah to be Fard [obligatory] is out of Islam though his name and other acts are like Muslims. The person, who considers Salah to be Fard [obligatory] but misses even one Salah deliberately, is an extreme transgressor, sinner and deserver of the torment of the Hell.

A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The one who deliberately misses a single Salah deserves to be in Hell for thousands years until he repents and does its Qada.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 9, pp. 158)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just imagine when a person has to remain in the Hell for thousands of years for only deliberately missing one Salah, so the person who deliberately misses all the Salah [which are to be offered throughout the day], or rather he does not offer Salah at all, so how severe torment he will deserve. Remember! Even Satan himself seeks protection from the one who deliberately misses Salah.

It has been narrated that a person was going somewhere in a jungle. Satan also accompanied him. He did not offer a single Salah throughout the day and the night fell. Satan started escaping from him. Surprised, the person asked him as to why he was escaping, so the Satan replied, ‘I only refused to perform Sajdah before [Sayyiduna] Aadam [ عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ] once throughout my life, so I was accursed and today you have missed all five Salahs. I am feeling scared lest wrath befall upon you and I also become its victim.’

(Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 144)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also offer all five Salahs with Jama’at in the first row regularly. Let’s listen to some admonitions for not offering Salah in order to frighten ourselves from the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to form the habit of offering Salah:

1. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: My Khaleel صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised me, ‘Do not make anyone the partner of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ even though you have been cut into pieces or burnt. Do not deliberately miss Fard [obligatory] Salah because the one who deliberately misses Salah, protection is lifted from him and do not drink wine at all because it is the root of every evil.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, pp. 2620, Hadees 4034)

1. The one who misses Salah will meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the state that He will have His wrath upon him. (Majma-uz-Zawaid, vol. 2, pp. 26, Hadees 1632)

2. The one, who misses Salah, decreases his family and wealth.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 132, Hadees 19085)

3. The one who deliberately misses Salah is undoubtedly out of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 12, pp. 195, Hadees 13023)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The person who does not offer Salah is not protected by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By virtue of Salah a person is protected from disasters in the world, loss of faith at the time of death, being unsuccessful in the test of the grave and the calamities on the Judgement Day.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 69)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Being negligent in offering Salah brings about the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, deserving of Hell and decrease in family and wealth. Commanding us to offer Salah regularly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 238 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

حٰفِظُوْا عَلَى الصَّلَوٰتِ وَ الصَّلٰوةِ الْوُسْطٰىۗ-وَ قُوْمُوْا لِلّٰهِ قٰنِتِیْنَ(۲۳۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Guard all your prayers, and (particularly) the middle prayer; and stand with reverence before Allah.

The importance of Salah can also be judged from the fact that the Beloved Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had also made Du’a for himself and his offspring especially about offering Salah which has been mentioned in Ayah 40 of Surah Ibraheem, part 13:

رَبِّ اجْعَلْنِیْ مُقِیْمَ الصَّلٰوةِ وَ مِنْ ذُرِّیَّتِیْ ﳓ رَبَّنَا وَ تَقَبَّلْ دُعَآءِ (۴۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O my Lord! Keep me as one who establishes prayer, and some of my descendants; O our Lord! And accept my prayer.

(Part 13, Surah Ibraheem, Ayah 40)

On the Judgement Day, first of all a question will be asked about Salah. It is stated in blessed Hadees, ‘ اَوَّلُ مَایُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَا تُہ ’ i.e. On the Judgement Day, first of all, a person will be asked a question about his Salah.

‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated about the blessed Hadees, ‘Undoubtedly Salah is a sign of Iman [faith] and an important act of worship’. (At-Tayseer Sharh Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 391)

A person came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and asked a question about the best deed three times, so the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied three times the same that Salah is the best deed.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 580, Hadees 6613)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that Salah is very important act of worship which has been commanded to offer regularly in the Holy Quran. Therefore, we should not only offer Salah with Jama’at in the first row with Takbeer-e-Aula regularly, but also we should take our sensible children with us to the Masjid. Remember! If we offer Salah regularly and take our sensible children to the Masjid, they will be inclined to Salah from their childhood and then they will get used to offering Salah when they become grown-up because if something is stuck in children’s mind from their childhood, naturally it becomes stronger in their mind when they become grownups.

Four sayings of Allah about Salah

Despite knowing the importance of Salah if someone does not offer Salah, he is very unwise and making himself deserving of Hell though offering Salah is the source of worldly and Hereafter privileges. Not only have we been commanded

to offer Salah, but we have also been persuaded to do it after mentioning the reward for it in the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to three sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about it. In Ayah 162 of Surah An-Nisa, part 6 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ الْمُقِیْمِیْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ سَنُؤْتِیْهِمْ اَجْرًا عَظِیْمًا۠(۱۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who establish prayer, give charity, believe in Allah and the Last Day; to them, We shall soon give a great reward.

In Ayah 3 and 4 of Surah Al-Anfaal, part 9 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

الَّذِیْنَ یُقِیْمُوْنَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ یُنْفِقُوْنَؕ(۳) اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٌ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ وَ مَغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌۚ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Those who keep the prayer established and spend some in Our path from what We have provided for them. These are true Muslims; for them are ranks with their Lord, and forgiveness and the honourable sustenance.

In Ayah 12 of Surah Al-Ma`idah, part 6 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ قَالَ اللّٰهُ اِنِّیْ مَعَكُمْؕ- لَىٕنْ اَقَمْتُمُ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَیْتُمُ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اٰمَنْتُمْ بِرُسُلِیْ وَ عَزَّرْتُمُوْهُمْ وَ اَقْرَضْتُمُ اللّٰهَ قَرْضًا حَسَنًا لَّاُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ لَاُدْخِلَنَّكُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُۚ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And Allah said, ‘Indeed I am with you; surely, if you keep prayer established and pay Zakah (poor-due), and believe in My

Messengers and respect them, and lend Allah a good loan, I will surely wipe out your sins, and I will surely admit you to Gardens beneath which rivers flow’.

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great are the favours for Salah-offering people that at some places good news of Paradise and forgiveness are being given to them and at other places good news of rewards are being told to them. Great persuasion and importance of Salah have also been stated in blessed Ahadees. If we get busy preparing for Salah leaving our all worldly activities as the time of Salah begins and offer Salah with extreme presence of the heart/mind and humility of the body, so not only do we attain lots of goodness of this world, but we will also attain its Hereafter benefit as this Salah will become a source of our forgiveness and salvation on the Day of Judgement.

Salvation for the one who offered Salah with presence of heart and humility of body

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made five Salahs obligatory. The person who performs Wudu for them properly and offers them at their fixed times, and performs their Ruku’ and Sujood with presence of the heart, so it is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive him; and the one who does not perform them, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has no reward for him; He my forgive him or torment him.

(Sunan Abu Dawood, vol. 1, pp. 186, Raqm 425)

Sins are wiped out by Salah

The fortunate Islamic brothers who offer five-time daily Salahs, all of their sins are wiped out, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: If any of you has a stream in his courtyard and he takes Ghusl (bath) daily five times in it, so will there be any dirt left on him? People humbly replied, ‘No’. The Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: Salah washes away the sins as water washes away the dirt. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 165, Hadees 1397)

Each Salah is expiation for the past sins

If the fortunate Islamic brother, who offers Salah regularly, commits sins (due to humanly weakness) between the gap of two Salahs, so the next Salah becomes expiation for the sins, that is, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives the sins which are committed between both the Salahs.

Sayyiduna Haaris رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was sitting with us when a Muazzin came. Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got some water and performed Wudu. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: I have seen the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performing Wudu in the same way and I have heard the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying that ‘the person who performs Wudu the way I have performed this Wudu and then offers Zuhr Salah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins, that is, the sins which were committed between the Fajr Salah and the Zuhr Salah; when he offers ‘Asr Salah then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins committed between the Zuhr Salah and the ‘Asr Salah; when he offers Maghrib Salah, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins, committed between the ‘Asr Salah and Maghrib Salah; when he offers ‘Isha Salah, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgives his sins, committed between the Maghrib Salah and the ‘Isha Salah, then he may spend the whole night lying and when he performs Wudu after getting up and offers Fajr Salah, so his sins, committed between the ‘Isha Salah and Fajr Salah, are forgiven and these are the virtuous deeds which keep the evils away. (Al-Ahadees-ul-Mukhtarah, vol. 1, pp. 450, Hadees 324)

Salah contains cure

The fortunate Islamic brothers who offer all five-time Salahs, by virtue of its blessing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows cure upon them from diseases. Nowadays such new diseases are affecting people, the names of which have never been heard before. Despite spending hundreds of thousands of rupees these diseases are spreading. Acting upon the sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم if we offer Salah regularly, so اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we can attain salvation from the diseases. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ فِی الصَّلٰوۃِ شِفَاءً ’ undoubtedly, Salah has cure .

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 98, Hadees 3458)

Therefore, we should not only offer Salah ourselves regularly whether we are ill or healthy, but we should also make our family members offer Salah regularly.

Blessing in sustenance

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows blessing upon the sustenance of the fortunate Islamic brother who offers all five-time Salahs regularly. In today’s critical age, everyone is trying to earn money, but despite spending the whole day for earning money everyone makes this complaint: I earn this amount of money even then there is no blessing in it . Remember! Offering all five-time Salahs properly [all the acts of Salah be performed without any haste] with presence of the mind/heart and humility of the body taking into consideration all the Wajibat, Sunnahs and etiquettes is a source of goodness and blessing in livelihood.

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, gives us the mind-set of offering all five-time Salahs regularly with Jama’at. You also associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and start offering Salah regularly. Further, take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah and also persuade others to do so. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Sada-e-Madinah’.

Sada-e-Madinah

What is Sada-e-Madinah? Waking Muslims up to offer Fajr Salah in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is called ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ and it is a great deed which was done by blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . These personages used to wake up their family members for Salah. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said that my respectable father, Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would offer Salah in the night as much as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills. Near the end of the night, he would also wake up his family members for Salah and would say to them: ‘ اَلصَّلٰوة ’ i.e. Salah . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then would recite the following blessed Ayah:

وَ اْمُرْ اَهْلَكَ بِالصَّلٰوةِ وَ اصْطَبِرْ عَلَیْهَاؕ-لَا نَسْــٴَـلُكَ رِزْقًاؕ-نَحْنُ نَرْزُقُكَؕ-وَ الْعَاقِبَةُ لِلتَّقْوٰى(۱۳۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And command your family to establish prayer, and yourself be steadfast over it; We do not ask any sustenance from you; We will provide you sustenance; and the excellent result is for piety.

(Part 16, Surah Taahaa, Ayah 132)

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 360, Hadees 1240)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of calling Sada-e-Madinah and make intention to call out Sada-e-Madinah.

Got Site for Faizan-e-Madinah

An Islamic brother has stated: We reached a city along with a Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami. After the Fajr Azan, we started making Sada-e-Madinah. Suddenly, a modern young man came out of his home and joined us and offered Fajr Salah with Jama’at in the Masjid. Later on, his father who was a wealthy person came to meet the Islamic brothers of the Madani Qafilah. He said, ‘By virtue of the blessing of Sada-e-Madinah, my disobedient son has started offering Salah five times.’ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The father of the young man was extremely impressed and he donated a site to Dawat-e-Islami in that city for the construction of the Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah.

صدائے مدینہ دوں روزانہ صدقہ

ابُو بکر و فاروق کا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! How beautiful act of worship Salah is! It carries numerous virtues and excellence. Few, out of them, are as follows:

§ Salah is the pillar of religion [Islam].

§ Salah protects people from diseases.

§ Salah is the source of blessings in sustenance.

§ Salah averts the torment of Hell.

§ Salah is the light in the pitched dark grave.

Wherever, in Glorious Quran and Hadees, performing of Salah is mentioned, it implies that Salah should be performed with all Fard (obligatory) and Wajib (mandatory) acts. For men, one of the Wajib acts is to perform Salah with Jama’at. The abundance of rewards and the glad-tidings have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees, for those who perform Salah with Jama’at. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for persuasion:

1. Salah with Jama’at is 27 times greater than a Salah offered alone.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 232, Hadees 645)

2. Whoever performs Wudu properly, walks for the obligatory Salah and offers Salah led by the Imam, his sins will be forgiven.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 9, Hadees 2727)

3. When a bondman offers Salah with Jama’at, begs for his need from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like that His bondman returns before his need is fulfilled. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 299, Hadees 10591)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also develop the habit of performing five times daily Salah in Masjid with Jama’at. You must have noticed that the handicapped and elderly people, despite their physical impairment, approach the Masajid anyway and offer Salah the way they feel better. If, such individuals, despite facing such a great trouble, prefer to offer Salah with Jama’at then we, to the greatest degree, should perform Salah with Jama’at.

Worldly, we try to excel each other today for example if we happened to see someone’s luxurious bungalow, we have a desire to have like that; if we happened to see someone’s excellent dress, we have a desire to wear like that; when we see someone’s brand new shining car, our hearts are inclined towards it; when we see someone’s flourishing business, it makes our mouth water. In short! We have become excessively greedy of worldly wealth that we sigh and moan all day and night in pursuit of wealth and do not take even a single pause when acquiring wealth. Would that by seeing someone doing virtuous deeds we also feel greed for good deeds. If only, having seen others going to Masjid, we could long for performing five times daily Salah; having seen others going to Masjid, we could also become amongst those who have devotion to the Masajid! A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه undertook long journeys and during facing the trials and the sufferings of travelling etc., he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه never missed even a single Jama’at, let alone missing any Salah. In this connection, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

A’la Hadrat’s devotion to Salah

At the age of 52, A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embarked on Hajj for the second time. After performing Hajj rites, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill for more than 2 months, when he recovered somewhat, he geared up to behold the blessed ‘Rauda-e-Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ as such he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left by boat; from there, he reached ‘Raabigh’ after 3 days crossing through ‘Jeddah’, and from Raabigh, through camel ride, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached ‘Bayr-e- Shaykh’ near Madinah. But a very little time was left for Fajr Salah, on the other hand, the camel riders wanted to stop their camels at the destination (Madinah) but there was a strong probability that Fajr Salah time would end. Observing this situation, Sayyidi A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, along with his fellows, stayed there and the caravan left.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a bucket (made up from special jute) but there was no rope through which water can be drawn from the deep well; therefore, he tied Imamah Sharifs together to get water and made ablution and performed his Fajr Salah in time. Thereafter the serious weakness after a long illness was a major concern for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as it was rather impossible for him

to walk miles. Shortly after, a stranger ‘Jammaal’ was there with his camel. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه expressed thankfulness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and rode the camel.

(Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 217)

مُصطفٰے کا وہ لاڈلا پیارا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

غوثِ اعظم کی آنکھ کا تارا واہ کیا بات اعلٰی حضرت کی

Dear Islamic brothers! سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Such was the devotion of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه towards Salah and the acts of worship that despite the trials and sufferings of long illness, he let the caravan go but did not like to miss the most superior act of worship ‘Salah’. We should offer Salah with punctuality whether it is a sad time or a happy occasion. Those who do not know how to offer Salah should not feel ashamed at all in learning it, and those who know how to offer Salah but do not offer it and keep suffering satanic whispers such as: ‘We are very sinner people, how can we appear in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Or ‘let us become pious first and grow beard then we would start offering Salah’. People with such notions should deny all these satanic whispers, and start offering Salah immediately. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by its blessings, they will refrain from sins. As Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in Glorious Quran:

اِنَّ الصَّلٰوةَ تَنْهٰى عَنِ الْفَحْشَآءِ وَ الْمُنْكَرِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the prayer stops from indecency and evil. (Part 21, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 45)

Commenting on the above-mentioned blessed Quranic Ayah, Sadr-ul-Afadil ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: He who is punctual of Salah, performs it properly, ultimately gives up the evils he was indulged in, at the end of the day. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, an Ansari young man used to offer Salah with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and used to commit many major sins [too]. A complaint was lodged against him in the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, [upon

this], the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘His Salah will prevent him from evil things one day.’ So, he sought repentance very soon and he became a better person.

Salah prevents people from evils

Let’s listen to a parable in this regard: Once a man fell in love with a woman, remains restless all the time and he was badly afflicted by the pains of separation. After all, finding some courage, he wrote a letter expressing his love and longing for the meeting. That woman belonged to a very noble family, hence, she blushed (felt shy) after receiving letter from her self-made lover. As she was a married woman and was also aware of the rights of her husband that in case of disobedience to her husband, nothing will be left except the destruction of world and Hereafter. Therefore, after thinking something she handed over that letter to her husband. Her husband, besides being very pious, was also a wise man. He had implicit trust in his life partner. Both were enjoying a pleasant and happy married life. Luckily he was an Imam in a Masjid. So, in response to the letter, he got this reply sent with the reference of his wife that ‘offer Salah five times a day in congregation, consecutive (40) days behind the Imam of such and such Masjid then it will be decided’.

Being a lover, he had to comply with the demand; he accepted the condition and started offering Salah. Time kept passing by degrees; blessings of Salah kept revealing to him. His condition of heart was changed when 40 days were over. Hence, he sent this message that with the blessings of Salah the scales fell from my eyes. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, I used to dream about committing forbidden acts but now it is a great favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that I am free from the shackles of your love and now it’s overwhelming love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in my heart bestowing me divine favours. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have repented of your love and my evil intention and I beg your pardon.

When that pious woman informed her husband about it, pious person knew no limits of joy after listening about the reform of spoilt Islamic brother and he suddenly uttered, صَدَقَ اللہُ الْعَظِیْمُ فِیْ قَوْ لِہٖ (i.e., Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated absolute truth):

اِنَّ الصَّلٰوةَ تَنْهٰى عَنِ الْفَحْشَآءِ وَ الْمُنْكَرِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the prayer stops from indecency and evil. (Part 21, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 45)

Dear Islamic brothers! Here is a fact that despite offering Salah, we don’t refrain from impermissible and forbidden acts; despite offering Salah, we keep disobeying our parents; despite offering Salah, we remain overcome by ‘Bay-Perdagi’ (women without veils) and immoral activities; despite offering Salah, we watch movies and dramas; despite offering Salah, we play and listen to music and songs; despite offering Salah, we remain engaged in evil acts such as swearing, backbiting, tale-telling, foul language, hurting others, violating others’ rights, interest and bribe etc. How surprising it is that despite offering Salah, we don’t have beard which is the sign of devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Grow [your] beard and trim [your] moustaches and act against fire-worshippers.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 125, Raqm 600)

Despite the above-mentioned blessed saying of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we shave this sign of devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ruthlessly and pour out in stinky drains even though shaving and shortening the beard less than a fist-length is Haraam. Then why we do it?

Dear Islamic brothers! May be we fail to comply with the apparent and hidden Sunnahs and Adaab (decorum) of Salah properly; it is for the reason we still remain deprived of the blessings of Salah. If we had performed Salah complying with all its Sunnahs and Adaab, we must have witnessed the blessings of Salah. Regrettably, a number of people do not even perform Salah and many out of those who perform, do not know the basic rulings of Salah and due to such mistakes, they waste their Salahs. Let’s listen to the mistakes committed during Salah:

Mistakes committed in Salah

1. Usually some people are accustomed to scratching continuously in the state of Salah. Remember scratching an itching place 2 times in a Rukn of Salah is allowed scratching an itching place three times in any Rukn nullifies Salah.

Similarly, some people do not regard for Ta’deel-e-Arkaan i.e., they perform Ruku’, Sujood, Qawmah and Jalsah in haste though it is Wajib to stay in these Arkaan long enough to recite ‘ سُبحَانَ الله ’ and avoiding it, is Makruh Tahreemi which makes Salah Wajib-ul-I’adah i.e., it will be performed again.

Another usual mistake that is noticed is that people do not perform Sajdah properly; in the state of Sajdah, either they lift their feet from the ground or just touch the tips of their toes on the ground. Salah remains invalidate if the requirement of Sajdah would not be fulfilled. It is Fard to touch the middle part of one of the toes to the ground, it is Wajib to touch the middle parts of three of the toes to the ground and it is Sunnah to touch the middle parts of all the 10 toes to the ground.

One of the common mistakes in Salah is that people approach Masjid exactly when it is time of Jama’at, and resultantly they make ablution in a hurry and stand in a row for Salah without rolling down their sleeves. Remember! Salah is Makruh Tahreemi if sleeve is left rolled up to more than half wrist.

Some people, while performing Salah individually, recite in such a low voice that they can’t even listen to it themselves and some even do not move their tongues and recite in heart whereas ruling is that one should recite in such an audible voice that he himself can listen to it. If there is no hindrance e.g. noise or any hearing problem and the voice is very low that the reciter himself can’t listen to it then Salah will get invalidated.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction of book ‘Laws of Salah’

Dear Islamic brothers! One should have knowledge about Wajibat of Salah, Makruhaat, Mufsidaat (the acts which invalidate Salah) and other necessary rulings along with the correct method of making Wudu (ablution) and Ghusl (ritual bath) so that our Salah should not be wasted because learning of ruling & laws is as necessary upon every adult and sane Muslim as offering Salah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has authored ‘ Namaz kay Ahkam ’ [Laws of Salah], a 499-page book upon the rulings of Salah with the passion of serving the Muslims; it is in fact an extremely easy book containing the collection of 12 booklets written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat. It is a great gift for Ummat-e-Muslimah. It consists of methods of Wudu, Ghusl, method of performing Salah, virtues of Salah, obligatory acts, Wajibat, Sunan, Makruhaat and Mufsidaat. Besides that, method of performing Qada Salah, Azan, words used for answering Azan and its virtues, Travellers’ Salah, Eid Salah, method of funeral Salah and important rulings pertaining to it have also been added.

No doubt, this book is a need of every house; therefore, all Islamic brothers should buy it from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and not only study it yourselves but also motivate other family members to read it. For Islamic sisters, ‘ Islami Behno ki Namaz ’ [Salah for Islamic Sisters] is a remarkable book authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat. It is highly important for Islamic sisters to read it.

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard Bayan (speech) about the importance of Salah:

Urging people repeatedly to establish Salah in Glorious Quran and blessed Ahadees lay great emphasis on its importance.

Salah carries enormous worldly and Hereafter benefits.

Cure of diseases lies in Salah.

Salah prevents one from evil acts.

Salah wipes out sins.

Salah brings blessings in sustenance.

So, habituate yourself to perform five times daily Salah with Jama’at because this Salah will act as a shield for you in the grave and in the Hereafter. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us the privilege to perform five times daily Salah with Jama’at in the first row.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Putting kohl: 4 Madani pearls

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

1. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl/Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

2. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

§ Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

§ Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

§ Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہ ِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہ ُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

