اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Attributes of Successful Trader

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Whoever recited the Holy Quran, glorified Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

وِردِ لَب ہر دَم دُرُودِ پاک ہو یا شہہِ عرب و عجم! کردو کرم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Islam is a complete religion and has to be followed in every field of human life. Islam not only shows us the methods of worship, it also guides us fully about the matters of life so that no field of life can be incomplete and Muslims may not be in need of any others except Islam in any act. Some forms of acquiring wealth are permissible and some are impermissible. For earning Halal sustenance it is essential to acquire what is permissible and to abstain from what is impermissible. A person should act upon permissible manners and avoid that which is impermissible.

In today’s Bayan, many Madani pearls will be mentioned under the title ‘Successful Businessman’. Firstly, let’s listen to the fragrant qualities of the blessed companion Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam’s biography, his character and then we will try to acquire the Madani pearls of instructions by listening to his magnificent sayings for success in business.

On page 120 of ‘ Karamat-e-Sahabah ’, a 346-page book published by Maktaba-tul- Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Shaykh-ul-Hadees ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has talked about the introduction of Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in this manner: ‘Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the son of Sayyidatuna Safiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا who is the paternal aunt of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, as a relative, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is a paternal cousin of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, a nephew of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and a son-in-law of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also one of the ten fortunate blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم whom the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the good news of being Jannatis.’ (Karamat-e-Sahabah, pp. 120)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Once Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked about the secret of him being a successful businessman, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: I have never bought anything without seeing and I have never rejected little profit and whoever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wants, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him blessing. (Al-Istee’aab, vol. 2, pp. 92)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard when Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked about the secret of his success in business, then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated beautiful Madani pearls and also said that this is not my excellence, but whoever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wishes for, is granted blessings. From this it can be easily understood that the manner of business and employment, of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی was very great indeed.

Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a great example of piety for others to follow. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away in this blessed month of Jumadal Ukhra. In relation to his blessed ‘Urs, we will listen to his blessed Zikr today. Since he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was an honest and a successful businessman, we will also receive the privilege of listening to his رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ blessed qualities in business principles.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very honest. Many a times, people used to place their belongings in his security. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani, Sayyiduna Miqdad, Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Awf and Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood and seven other glorious companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم appointed Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as a guardian over their wealth after their death. Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would look after their wealth with absolute honesty and would spend on their children from his own earnings. (Tareekh Damishq, vol. 18, pp. 397)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors like the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم or the righteous people of the past used to be truthful, honest, just, pious, selfless and used to have the passion for goodness and helping

others and with all these attributes they would continue to follow the Islamic business principles, that’s why Muslims were prosperous in their blessed eras. But now Muslims have developed evils like injustice, untruth, deception, usury, selfishness etc. in their characters, except those who are protected by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Now business conditions are not good due to different types of defects. Acting upon the rules prescribed by the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees, if we earn our sustenance, learn the principles of Islamic business and act upon them, if we follow our pious predecessors in the matters of business, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there will be a great change in the Islamic society and Muslims will prosper once more. Furthermore, the most important thing is that the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be attained.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned the purpose of commerce. Let’s listen to its summary: The more the needs of people are, the more difficult it is to satisfy them. If a person starts doing all the work alone to fulfil his needs (for example, he cultivates the land by himself, then grinds the grains himself, sews the clothing himself after weaving it) then he may fail and may not spend the days of his life easily. It is the perfect system of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has divided all humans in different fields and different types so that every group may do their own work and the collaborative effort of all these groups may fulfil the needs of all people. For example, some people cultivate, whilst others weave the cloth, some do other types of work with their own hands. Those who cultivate also need clothes, similarly those who weave the cloth are dependent on those who cultivate for getting grain etc. Everyone depends on each other, that’s why the need was felt that whatever was produced should be sent to each other so that all could fulfil their needs and there could be no

trouble in their work as well. Things started then and the matters of buying and selling and every kind of other matter etc. came into being.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 2, pp. 608)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, commerce or trade is a good and permissible act, that’s why the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would trade with each other; they also used to trade in clothes etc. with each other. Similarly, Islamic scholars and pious people, after them, did the same, but never disregarded the business principles as prescribed by Islam. It is stated in verse 29 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5:

یٰۤاَیُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡ ا لَا تَاۡ کُلُوۡۤ ا اَمۡوَالَکُمۡ

بَیۡنَکُمۡ بِالۡبَاطِلِ اِلَّاۤ اَنۡ تَکُوۡ نَ تِجَارَۃً عَنۡ تَرَ اضٍ مِّنۡکُمۡ ۟

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Consume not unjustly the property of one another among yourselves except it be a trade by your mutual consent.

(Part 5, Surah An-Nisa, verse 29)

Imam Ahmad Bin Hajar Makki Haytami Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: In this blessed verse, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has clearly stated that trade is permissible on condition that it is to be done with the parties’ consent and consent can be obtained provided that there is no cheating and corruption. Therefore, the one who wants to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the one who wants safety of his religion and the world and the Hereafter and respect, should make efforts for his religion and should never follow anything related to cheating or corruption in business.

(Az-Zawajir, vol. 1, pp. 520)

اے ملاوٹ کرنے والے مان جا خوف کر بھائی عذابِ نار کا

چھوڑ دو اے تاجرو! کم تولنا جُھوٹ چھوڑو بیچنے میں بولنا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! It is a human need to desire and earn Halal sustenance for one’s parents, siblings, family members by means of business in a permissible way. The attention to earn Halal sustenance has been focused many times in the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has even persuaded and commanded [us] to continue with its search. It is stated in verse 11 of Surah An-Naba, part 30:

وَ جَعَلۡنَا النَّہَارَ مَعَاشًا ﴿۪۱۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We have made the day for seeking livelihood. (Part 30, Surah An-Naba, verse 11)

It has been stated in another place:

فَانۡتَشِرُوۡ ا فِی الۡاَرۡضِ وَ ابۡتَغُوۡ ا مِنۡ فَضۡلِ اللّٰہِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then, disperse in the land and seek the grace of Allah. (Part 28, Surah Al-Jumu’ah, verse 10)

Sayyiduna Ka’b Bin ‘Ujrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that once, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting with the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . In the meantime, a young man passed by. Having seen a powerful and a strong man the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم said, ‘Would that he could

spend his youthfulness and strength in the way of Allah!’ Upon this the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

1. If this person has come out to look for sustenance for his small children, so he is in the way of Allah.

2. And if this person has come out to look for the sustenance for his old parents, so even then he is in the way of Allah.

3. And if he has come out to protect himself (from begging people or from eating Haraam), so he is in the way of Allah.

4. However, if he has come out for ostentation and pride, so he is in the way of Satan. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 136, Hadees 6835)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the importance of the great effort to serve parents and to bear the expenses of children that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarded that person as one who is in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Those who keep Halal and Haraam in view, besides the truth, justice and honesty do trade, jobs or work as labourers are not only the beloved ones of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but they will also be resurrected with the good people. Furthermore, they will be forgiven and on the Day of Judgement the brightness of their faces will be like the full moon. Let’s listen to four sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the excellence of trade and general work so that the importance of trade may become more evident.

1. اَلتَّاجِرُ الصَّدُوۡقُ الۡاَمِيۡنُ مَعَ النَّبِيِّيۡنَ وَالصِّدِّيۡقِيۡنَ وَالشُّهَدَاء: i.e. a true and honest businessman will be with the Prophets, Siddiqeen and martyrs.

(Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 5, Hadees 1213)

2. اِنَّ الل ّٰ هَ يُحِبُّ الۡمُؤۡمِنَ الۡمُحۡتَرِفَ: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves the professional (who works for his livelihood) true believer. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 327, Hadees 8934)

3. مَنۡ اَمۡسٰي كَالًّا مِنۡ عَمَلِ يَدَيۡهِ اَمۡسٰي مَغۡفُوۡرًا لَه ٗ: i.e. The one who works with his own hands till the evening and feels tired, he does the evening after being forgiven. (Al- Mu’jam - ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 337, Hadees 7520)

4.

مَنۡ طَلَبَ الدُّنۡيَا حَلَالًا اِسۡتِعۡفَافًا عَنِ الۡمَسۡئَلَةِ وَسَعۡيًا عَلٰي اَهۡلِه وَتَعَطُّفًا عَلٰي جَارِ ه لَقِيَ اللّٰهَ وَ وَجۡهُهُ كَالۡقَمَرِ لَيۡلَةَ الۡبَدۡرِ

i.e. the one, who desires for the world in a Halal way to protect himself from begging, to make much effort for his family members and to be kind to his neighbour, will meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the state that his face will be as bright as the full moon.

(Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 5, pp. 258, Hadees 7)

تاج و تخت و حکومت مت دے کثرتِ مال و دولت مت دے

اپنی رِضا کا دیدے مُژدہ یا الله مِری جھولی بھر دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Besides listening to the attributes of a successful businessman, listen to the attributes of Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the sixth companion amongst ‘ Asharah Mubashsharah . ‘ Asharah Mubashsharah are those 10 blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم whom the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the good news of

Jannah. Feeling a sense of responsibility, a great mother like Sayyidatuna Safiyyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave her beloved son a great Madani upbringing.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Halal livelihood is not only a deed of excellence, besides many other Prophets’ it is also a beautiful Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, therefore, it should be joined as a Sunnah. The blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام joined different professions for their livelihood. Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, first of all, used to do the work of cloth manufacturing, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام started cultivation. Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام was in the wood profession, Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام in dressmaking, Sayyiduna Hood and Saalih عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام in business, Sayyiduna Ibraheem and Sayyiduna Loot عَـلَـيْهِمَا السَّلَام in cultivation and Sayyiduna Shu’ayb عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام used to rear animals. Likewise, Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام would graze goats and Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام would make armour (iron knitted clothing used in battles in the past). Despite being the king of the entire world, Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام would make fans and small baskets (with lids) of date leaves and our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would do trade. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 228)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام also did trade and industry to earn Halal sustenance. There is no doubt that the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام are free of every kind of evil and sin. If evils had to be committed in trade or it had any evil, then the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام would definitely not have joined it. As a matter of fact, evils and corruption are not in business, but rather they are in our own characters. For their prevention, Shari’ah has fixed the yardstick of permissible and impermissible and Halal and Haraam, so that no Muslim may become a victim of injustice nor could anyone be deprived of their rights. Therefore, those,

who act upon these commandments, succeed in this world and the Hereafter and those who do not pay attention to these commandments and without distinguishing between Halal and Haraam act upon the desires of their Nafs, ultimately fail in this world and in the Hereafter.

In his book ‘ Islami Zindagi ’ [Islamic Life], Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: It is a big crime to remain idle, and to join an impermissible profession is a graver sin than that. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given us hands and feet etc. to work, not to leave them idle. Likewise, the profession (for e.g.) of stopping the supply of grain when it is needed is Makruh. The business of Haraam things is Haraam such as playing songs, dancing, rearing of hawks, rearing of fighting quails (animal fights), etc. Similarly, the professions of giving false evidence, the business of wine such as selling and getting it sold or buying and getting it bought etc. are all Haraam. (Islami Zindagi, pp. 144)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If we have a look at the blessed biography of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, everywhere we will see the Madani parables of piety and abstinence and their desire to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would do trade, but when they had to carry out any right of the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then their trade did not prevent them from making the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and they would perform it. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 9, Taht-al-Bab: 11)

Discussing the same practice of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in His sacred book the Holy Quran, has stated:

رِجَالٌ ۙ لَّا تُلۡہِیۡہِمۡ تِجَارَۃٌ وَّ لَا بَیۡعٌ عَنۡ ذِ کۡرِ اللہِ وَ اِقَامِ الصَّلٰو ۃِ وَ اِیۡتَآءِ الزَّکٰوۃِ ۪ ۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: By men whom neither trade nor business diverts from the remembrance of Allah and performing of Salah and paying of the Zakah . (Part 18, Surah An-Noor, verse 37)

Sayyiduna Ibn Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saw that those working in the market used to leave their (business) goods as they heard the Azan and went for Salah. Upon this he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed the verse, ‘ رِجَالٌ لَّا تُلۡهِيۡهِمۡ ’ in favour of these people. (Al- Mu’jam - ul-Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 222, Hadees 9079)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder over beauty of Islam in the past, when Muslims were the embodiments of piety & abstinence. People used to trade for Halal earnings by abstaining from dishonesty and deception etc. Therefore, following in the footsteps of our pious predecessors we too should do trade as per Shar’i principles. In the light of the blessed Hadees, let’s analyse what the principles of commerce are and what the attributes of a successful businessman should be in Islam.

Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly the most purified earning is of those businessmen who do not tell a lie when they speak, do not act deceitfully when they are entrusted with something, do not break a promise when they make one; when they buy something they do not find faults with it, when they sell something, they do not praise it excessively, when they have to pay somebody something, they do not become lazy in paying it and when somebody has to pay them something, they do not become strict in its collection. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 221, Hadees 4854)

Remember! It is a great crime and a huge breach of trust to deceive someone else or to tell a lie in either business or any other matters.

Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin Aseed Hadrami رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that he heard the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: It is a huge breach of trust that you say something to your brother and he is considering you to be truthful in it, though you are lying to him. (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 381, Hadees 4971)

Likewise, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The ones, who are buying and selling, have the authority until they finalize the deal. If during making a deal they speak the truth and mention the truth, blessing is put in their goods and if they conceal and tell untruths, then perhaps they may earn some profit, but will lose the blessing of their goods, because a false oath makes a thing sell, but removes the blessing.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 366, Raqm 4)

Dear Islamic brothers! When telling a lie is an absolute sin, how terrible a sin will it be to rob a Muslim by telling him a lie during buying and selling. Alas! Nowadays the act of lying abundantly is considered as a marvel and a sign of progress, whereas truth is considered a foolish thing and a hindrance in the path of progress. Even some people swear false oaths in order to sell their goods. These people should keep in mind that whatever sustenance Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has written for them in their destiny, will be provided to them. Neither speaking the truth will reduce their sustenance, nor by telling lies can they get more sustenance than what is fixed for them. However, telling lies is an act that may prove to be the cause of a huge loss of blessings and economic destruction.

No matter how much success a liar achieves, he will face punishment for those lies. For example, if he is not punished in this world, it will be his loss in the Hereafter and undoubtedly there is no loss bigger than the loss in the Hereafter. If only we could do good to our Muslim brothers and get into the habit of trusting Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the matters of sustenance! Alas! Nowadays in business matters, everywhere untruth and cheating have become widespread because people have stopped trusting in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the fulfilment of their

needs. A successful businessman should make his mind to trust in the One and Only Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Who has taken the responsibility of the livelihood of every living being, for the fulfilment of his needs.

میں جھوٹ نہ بولوں کبھی گالی نہ نکالوں

الله مرض سے تُو گناہوں کے شِفا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Zikr of Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also being done besides listening to the attributes of a successful businessman. Let’s listen to the faith-refreshing parable in which the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم called the sixth companion of the ‘Asharah Mubashsharah, Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam with the following, رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ‘ فِدَاكَ اَبِيۡ وَاُمِّيۡ ’:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Zubayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that on the occasion of the battle of Ahzaab (8 Shawwal or Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam, 5 AH) Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Abi Salamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and I were on duty of guarding the women. Suddenly I saw my respectable father, Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ visiting the Banu Qurayzah two or three times. Upon his return its reason was asked, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then replied, ‘O my son! Did you really see me?’ I humbly said, ‘Yes!’ he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked who would retrieve the news of Bani Qurayzah? That’s why I carried out this service and when I reached the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم bringing his blessed parents together said, ‘ فِدَاكَ اَبِيۡ وَاُمِّيۡ ’ i.e. O Zubayr, may my mother and father be sacrificed upon you! (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 539 Hadees 3720)

تم کو تو غُلاموں سے ہے کچھ ایسی مَحَبَّت

ہے ترکِ ادب ورنہ کہیں ہم پہ فِدا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Traders, in fact all of us should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and participate in the Madani activities, so that not only could we live a righteous life, but we could also have the privilege of conveying the call towards righteousness to others. A large number of people have had Madani transformations in their lives by virtue of the Madani blessing of Dawat-e-Islami. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic brother of how he associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and what blessings he attained after being associated with this Madani environment.

No words can express the greatness of delivering Dars from Faizan-e Sunnat . One brother from the Lines Area of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi narrated: I was standing on the roof of my house when I saw an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami, with a green ‘Imamah on his head, giving Chowk Dars all alone by the street corner. No one was sitting there to listen to him. Even though I was far away from religion and would avoid Islamic brothers who wore green ‘Imamahs, when I saw that brother giving Dars all alone, I felt bad. I went down and joined his Dars in sympathy. Joining that Dars became a source for my reformation and I became attached to the Madani environment. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at the time of giving this statement, I am in charge of Madani In’amaat in my locality. There was a time when I used to run away from people wearing green ‘Imamahs and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today the crown of the green ‘Imamah is shining on my head.

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few attributes of a successful businessman and the Islamic brothers who are related to this field should, in particular, make intention to have them.

Remember! Nothing in this world is done without hard work. Business needs hard work, skill and smartness. A lazy person can never succeed in any type of work. There is a famous saying that ‘no pain no gain’; no matter how rich a businessman be he should not totally depend on his servants. He should do some work himself as well.

A very important attribute for a businessman in business is to be very polite. As a matter of fact, every Muslim should be polite, but for a businessman it is a must. On the other hand, people avoid an ill-mannered and ill-tempered person and if a customer goes to such a person once, he does not want to go to him again.

A businessman should be of good character, habits and must be honest. How can a wicked businessman who is of bad character and also earns Haraam be successful?

Likewise, it is essential for a successful businessman not to be hasty and inexperienced. Some businessmen start their shops or business and want to become wealthy overnight. If things are not sold for two days or they suffer some loss, they immediately lose their heart and close their shop or business. This should not be done.

An inexperienced businessman spends too much on a small business. When his small shop cannot bear so many expenses, he becomes unsuccessful. Therefore, this too should not be done. Furthermore, it is extremely essential to avoid extravagance and unnecessary expenses.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want to spend our life according to the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and want to become a very good Muslim who lives his life according to the Shari’ah, then we should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Travel regularly with the Madani Qafilahs of the lovers of the beloved Rasool, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the peace of both worlds will be attained. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for the circulation and propagation of Islam, Dawat-e-Islami is working in many departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Traders’.

Islam has bestowed very clear principles of business upon its believers, but unfortunately due to a lack of Islamic knowledge and the attractions of this world have prevented Muslims of today from following these golden principles. Now it is essential that someone shows these businessmen the real Islam. Therefore, under the global & non-political movement of preaching the Quran and Sunnah (Dawat-e-Islami), a department named ‘Majlis Traders’ has been established whose job is to provide the business community with those Islamic teachings pertaining to business, to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami amongst them and associating them with Dawat-e-Islami to make their minds to spend their life according to the Madani aim ‘I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Efforts are made to deliver Madani Dars either in the Masjid or at any suitable place as per the method prescribed by Madani Markaz for the achievement of the Madani aim and for creating a Madani environment in the market places.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دُھوم مَچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Likewise, it is essential for a successful businessman to become aware of the rules and manners of business. Many of the manners are such that it is compulsory for a trader to act upon them as per the Shari’ah. Therefore, let’s listen to a few manners of business from page 184 of Siraat-ul-Jinan, volume 2, so that a businessman may not be deprived of blessings by displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ through making any kind of Shar’i mistakes.

1. A businessman should refresh his good intentions in his heart daily in the morning: I will go to the market to fulfil my family members’ needs with Halal earnings, so that they become independent of people and I may get enough leisure time that I worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and continue to follow the path of the Hereafter. This intention should also be made that I will be kind, sincere and honest with people, I will ask people to carry out good deeds, prevent them from evils and I will investigate those who act deceitfully.

2. A businessman should know how to check counterfeit and genuine notes. He should neither accept counterfeit notes nor should he give it to anyone else so that the right of Muslims is not wasted.

3. If someone gives a counterfeit note (and the one he has given has not been found) then it should not be given to another person {and if the one who has given it is found then (getting the original amount back from him) he should not be given the counterfeit note back either}, it should rather be torn and thrown away so that he may not cheat any other person.

4. He should not praise his goods excessively as it is an untruth and an act of deception. If a buyer already knows the qualities of his goods, then there is no real need in the seller praising the goods, as this is unnecessary.

5. If a defect is found in the goods that is good, then it should not be concealed from the customer, otherwise he will be an oppressor and a sinner.

6. No one should be deceived in weight and measurement, a businessman should weigh and measure accurately.

7. A businessman should not deceive anyone else in the price, concealing the original price.

8. He should not make too much profit, even though a buyer agrees to this injustice due to any compulsions.

9. He should buy the goods from the poor at a high price, so that they can be pleased, such as the yarn of the widow and the fruit which has been obtained or bought from the poor because such an act of overlooking is superior to even Sadaqah .

10. He should pay off his debt to the creditor before the creditor asks for it. Instead of calling him he should visit him to pay off his debt.

11. The worldly market should not prevent him from the market of the Hereafter (i.e. the Masajid).

12. He should try not to stay too long in the market.

(Kimiya -e- Sa’adat, vol. 1, pp. 326-340)

مجھے مال و دولت کی آفت نے گھیرا بچا یا اِلٰہی بچا یا اِلٰہی

نہ دے جاہ و حشمت نہ دولت کی کثرت گدائے مدینہ بنا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned Madani pearls are great methods of increasing sustenance and for the progress of a country and nation. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, pious predecessors and saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی possessed these attributes in every field of their practical life. For these blessed dignitaries the meaning of economic prosperity was not this at all in which no matter how much loss a country and nation suffers, no matter how poor a Muslim brother becomes financially, my financial conditions should be better, my personal property and wealth should be increased. They never tolerated this that they should consider other Muslims’ wealth the foundation stone of their property after making them penniless by any means whether permissible or impermissible, because those holy people would not accept today’s businessmen’s notion that ‘ money should be earned by any means ’, but they used to be true well-wishers of their Muslim brothers and used to consider the loss of Muslims to be their own loss. Therefore, keeping in mind the sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the practices of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی during business we should also awaken the passion for doing good to Muslims.

میرا دل پاک ہو سرکار دُنیا کی مَحَبَّت سے

مجھے ہوجائے نفرت کاش آقا مال و دولت سے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Study the 68-page booklet named ‘ Aslaf ka Andaz-e-Tijarat ’ [Business Manners of the Pious Predecessors], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami for further information on trade. This booklet can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The program of ‘Ahkam-e-Tijarat’ [Rulings on Business] is broadcast on Madani Channel, a 100 per cent Islamic channel of Dawat-e-

Islami. It is the best program to learn Shar’i rulings on business. Watching this program will also teach you Islamic business principles, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Take part in the 12 Zayli Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami with enthusiasm for propagating the call towards righteousness. One of these Madani works is called ‘Chowk Dars’ (Dars at a busy square). Remember! In Chowk Dars, ‘Ilm-e-Deen (Islamic teachings) are conveyed and similarly, Chowk Dars is a brilliant source of ‘ اَمۡرٌ بِالۡمَعۡرُوۡفِ وَنَهۡيٌ عَنِ الۡمُنۡكَر ’ and it brings uncountable blessings with it.

www

Dear Islamic brothers! Let us listen to a few excellences of Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

1. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Every Prophet had a Hawaari (disciple), and my Hawaari is Zubayr.’

2. The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: O Zubayr! This is Jibra`eel; he greets you and says he would remain with you on the Day of Qiyamah, he would not even let a spark of Hell reach you.

(Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 18, pp. 370)

3. The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Talhah and Zubayr (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) will be my neighbours in Jannah.

(Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 18, pp. 391)

4. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is one of the pillars of the Deen.’

(Tareekh Damishq, vol. 18, pp. 396)

23. Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated, ‘(Sayyiduna) Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is amongst those, about whom, the Glorious Quran says: These are the people, despite being injured they presented themselves on the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’.’ (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 18, pp. 358)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have heard about the successful businessman Sayyiduna Zubayr Bin ‘Awwam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . We have heard that a successful businessman is he who does trade with good intentions, does trade by Halal and permissible manners, learns Shar’i Islamic principles of business, does business for his small children and old parents, does not speak lies, but speaks the truth. A successful businessman is honest, not deceitful. His business does not prevent him from offering Salah, observing fasts, performing Haj, paying Zakah etc. He does permissible trade in a permissible manner, keeps his promises, does not find faults with the goods at the time of purchasing them, does not excessively praise goods at the time of selling them, does not become lazy in paying his back his debts.

A successful businessman is that person who is active, not lazy, polite, not hasty, who exposes the defects of his goods himself at the time of selling it. He does not inaccurately weigh and measure; he asks to do good and prevents from evils; he neither accepts fake notes nor does he give fake notes to anyone else. If someone gives him a fake note, he discards it. He buys the goods from the poor at a high price, and sells goods to them at a low price. He pays off his debts to the creditor before the creditor asks for it. He does not pay off his debts after calling the person, but rather he goes to that person to pay off his debts. A successful businessman is he who the worldly market does not prevent from the market of the Hereafter (i.e. the Masajid); he is not a servant of wealth, but a servant of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the true slave of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow us with life and death according to His Will! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be pleased with us forever and may we succeed in this world and the Hereafter!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some miscellaneous manners about the Holy Quran. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Miscellaneous Madani pearls

1. It is an etiquette to keep the Holy Quran in a case or in a cover. Muslims have been acting upon this since the time of the Sahabah and Tabi’een رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ عَـنْهُمۡ اَجۡـمَعِیۡن . (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 12, pp. 139)

2. One of the etiquettes of the Holy Quran is to refrain from turning one’s back towards it, spreading out the legs towards it, putting the feet higher than it, and being on a higher surface than it. (Ibid)

3. If the Holy Quran accidently falls from someone’s hands or table onto the floor, there is no sin for him nor is any Kaffarah [expiation] required.

4. If somebody مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ throws the Holy Quran onto the floor with the intention of disrespect, or puts his feet on the Holy Quran with the intention of disrespect; he will become a Kafir .

5. A statement made in the words of a vow (Qasam) or oath whilst holding the Holy Quran in the hands or placing the hand onto the Holy Quran is recognized as a severe oath (Qasam). However, if someone says something without uttering specific words of a vow/oath while holding the Holy Quran in his hands or placing his hand onto the Holy Quran, the vow (Qasam) will not be established in this case nor will any Kaffarah [expiation] be required. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 13, pp. 574-575)

6. Even if there are many Qurans stocked in a Masjid, and not all of them are being used; and some are wearing out; it is impermissible to sell them and to spend the price in the affairs of the Masjid. However, such Qurans may be distributed to be placed into other Masajid and Islamic schools. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 16, pp. 164)

7. If the Holy Quran has worn out and it becomes difficult to recite from it and there is a fear that its pages can get separated and be lost, so it after being wrapped in a purified cloth should be buried at a proper place and a Lahad be made in its burial (i.e. an abyss facing Qiblah should be dug so deep that all the sacred pages can be placed into it) so that earth could not fall on them (or after placing into the ditch) a flat piece of wood be placed as a roof on the ditch and then earth should be put so that it can be safe from the earth.

8. If the Holy Quran has worn out, it should not be burnt.

(Bahar -e- Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 495, Maktaba-tul-Madinah, Karachi)

میں ادب قراٰن کا ہر حال میں کرتا رہوں

ہر گھڑی اے میرے مولٰی تجھ سے میں ڈرتا رہوں

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

