اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Excellence of Worship in Youth

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed such an angel to my grave who has been bestowed with the power of hearing the voices of all the creatures; thus whoever keep reciting Salat upon me until the Day of Judgement, so, he [angel] presents to me his name and his father’s name that so-and-so the son of so-and-so has recited Salat upon you (that time).’ (Musnad Al-Bazzaar, vol. 4, pp. 254, Hadees 1425)

دُور و نزدیک کے سُننے والے وہ کان کانِ لعلِ کرامت پہ لاکھوں سَلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The topic of today’s Bayan is ‘ Excellence of Worship in Youth ’. Generally in one’s youth, heedlessness and without any worry no importance is given to these beautiful moments bringing about regret in old age, therefore as long as youth and health are there, they should be constantly spent in worshipping.

A saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that I saw a young man in a jungle, far away from the populated areas, busy worshipping all alone. I made Salam to him and he replied to my Salam. I then asked him: O young man! Why are you here at such a deserted place, where you have no helper nor a friend? He replied: Why not, By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I do have a helper and a friend. I asked: Where are they? He replied: He has superiority over me with His respect; He is with me with His knowledge and intellect; He is in front of me with His instruction, and His blessing and dignity are on my right and left.

When I heard this I humbly asked: Will you allow me to have your company? He said: your company will make me heedless of my worship and I do not like this, (because) the King of the earth from the East to West is sufficient for me. I asked: Do you not feel afraid in this lonely place. He replied: One whose friend and companion is Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so how will he be afraid? I asked: From where did you get food to eat? He replied: When I was very young, through His blessings He provided me with food inside the dark womb of my mother and now that I have grown up, will He not take care of me? He has a fixed amount of sustenance for me and its time is also written.

I then requested him to make Du’a, so he made Du’a for me like this: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect your eyes from His disobedience, fill your heart with His fear, not make you from among those who become heedless with being occupied with other than Him! Thereafter he stood up to leave so I humbly asked: O my brother! When will we meet again? He said smilingly: I will not meet you in this world after today. However! On the Day Judgement when all the people are gathered, so if you want to meet me you could find me among those who will have Deedar-e-Ilahi (the blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). I asked: How have you learnt? He replied: By His respect! Through His virtue I have

learnt because I have prevented my eyes from looking at Haraam things and my Nafs from satisfying the desires and have adopted loneliness in the dark nights for His worship (I am hopeful that He will be pleased with me and) in return for this He will let me have His sight. That young man then disappeared and never met me again. (Ar-Raud-ur-Faaiq, pp. 166, 167)

رہوں مست و بے خُود میں تیری وِلا میں پِلا جام ایسا پِلا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the abovementioned parable, the young man kept himself occupied with worship and Riyazat, avoiding the attractions of the world in his youth and prevented himself from watching Shar’i Haraam things and lived at that deserted place all alone. This parable contains countless Madani pearls of warnings, in particular, for those young people who are intoxicated with their youth are deceived by Nafs and Satan and are thus involved in committing sins and displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Such people should understand the importance of their youth and instead of destroying their precious moments in useless things should spend them in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as this blessing is given only once in life.

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has said: Health, youth, wealth and life should never be wasted; perform good deeds when you have these things as they are blessings and do not return. (He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that) after spending one’s youth in sports and entertainments, when parts of the body become useless in old age, having a desire for abundant worship now is foolishness. Whatever act has to be performed, should be performed in youth because a young righteous man has a great status.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 16)

رِیاضَت کے یہی دن ہیں بُڑھاپے میں کہاں ہِمّت

جو کچھ کرنا ہو اب کرلو ابھی نُوری جَواں تم ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! The period of youth is undoubtedly one of the greatest blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which is priceless; once it is lost, it can never be regained even after spending billions trying to go back. If we spend our youth in obeying and worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will be safe from depression and shame on the Day of Judgement, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Otherwise, we may fall into absolute disgrace due to giving no importance to this blessing because a question will be asked about our period of youth on the Day Judgement.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, a person will not be able to lift his foot until he is questioned about five things: (1) In which activities was life spent? (2) In which activities was one’s youth spent? (3) From where was wealth earned? (4) Where was it spent? (5) To what extent was knowledge practiced upon?

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 188, Hadees 2424)

The fortunate people, who give importance to their youth, overcome their Nafsani desires and purely for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ they spend their days and nights in worship and Riyazat. Therefore they receive a lot of goodness in this world and the Hereafter. Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. A young man performing worship in his youth is superior to an old man worshipping in the old age; as Mursaleen (عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام) are superior to all Prophets. (Attargheeb fi Fadaail-ul-A’maal, pp. 78, Hadees 228)

2. A young man who gives up the pleasure and luxuries of the world and advances towards the obedience of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant him the reward equivalent to seventy-two Siddiqeen.’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 43099)

1. From creation, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves most that delightful young man who spends his youth and beauty in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Taking pride in him in front of the angels, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘He is My real bondsman.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 42096)

2. Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves such a person who has devoted his youth to obeying the Almighty. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 394, Hadees 7496)

محبت میں اپنی گُما یا اِلٰہی نہ پاوں میں اپنا پتا یا اِلٰہی

تُو اپنی وِلایت کی خَیرات دیدے مِرے غَوث کا واسِطَہ یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that those who know the worth of their youth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants them such a favour and grace that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ includes them among His beloved bondsmen! Therefore, our youth are requested, that if they want to live a peaceful and comfortable life, give importance to the blessings of youth by making their Nafs attracted to worship and Riyazat instead of running after the mortal world. Though it is very difficult as hopes and desires are at their peak in youth, but if we follow the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and act upon the noble and virtuous life of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there will be a Madani revolution in our lives as well.

Sayyiduna ‘Ata رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar and Sayyiduna ‘Ubayd Bin ‘Amr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and I went to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا . Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly ask:

Tell us something amazing about the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا started weeping and said: One night the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم approached me and said: Allow me to worship my Rab (عَزَّوَجَلَّ). I humbly said: Instead of my desire I like your closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ more. So the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood at a corner of the house and started weeping. Then having performed Wudu properly he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started reciting the Holy Quran, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم again started weeping until the tears, coming out of his blessed eyes, fell to the ground. In the meanwhile, Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ arrived, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon seeing him weeping: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! What has made you weep though Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive the sins of the people of the past and the future for your sake? It was said: Should I not be a thankful person? (Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 253-254)

روتا ہے جو راتوں کو اُمّت کی مَحبَّت میں وہ شافِعِ محشر ہے سردار مدینے کا

راتوں کو جو روتا ہے اور خاک پہ سوتا ہے غم خوار ہے، سادہ ہے مختار مدینے کا

قبضے میں دو عالَم ہیں پَر ہاتھ کا تکیہ ہے سوتا ہے چٹائی پر سَردار مدینے کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم despite being Sayyid-ul-Ma’soomeen and Sayyid-ul-‘Aabideen (the leader of Islamic worshippers) would worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with so much of weeping, however the glory and dignity of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is so great that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him master and independent. By the grant of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede through his authority on behalf of those who will become disappointed about not being forgiven on the Day of Judgement. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated his glory: On the Day of Judgement, first of all I will come out (from my luminous shrine). When people come in the form of groups, I will be their leader when they become silent (due to the terrifying situation on the Day of Judgement), I will become their Khateeb (one who

recites a sermon). When they are stopped, I will be their intercessor; when they become hopeless, I will be the one who will give them good news. I will have sublimity & grandeur and the keys of all the treasures (of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) in my hands that day and I among the offspring of Sayyiduna Adam (عَـلٰى نَبِ ـ يِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام) will be the most glorious one near Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 1000 servants will be around me. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 39, Hadees 48)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! May I be sacrificed! The master of first and last and by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, despite being master and independent, the state of the passion for worshipping is this that due to excessive worship his blessed feet would swell and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the sake of the forgiveness of the sinners of his Ummah would weep. It contains Madani pearls of advice, in particular, for the youth who do not take interest in worship and spend their whole night in unnecessary things. Therefore such people are requested to remember the tears of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Obey the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and act upon Sunnahs for success in this world and the Hereafter and for the greed of rewards in the Hereafter perform many good deeds.

Remember! To be able to worship in youth is not less than a great blessing because as a person grows up he falls victim to the dangerous tricks of Satan, impermissible desires of the Nafs, company of bad friends, the worries of the worldly future, the attractions of this immortal world and due to the impermissible ways of earning wealth, he keeps roaming in the darkness of sins and is not attracted to worship and Riyazat.

Remember! We have been sent to the world for a very short period of time; during this time we must prepare for the very long matters of the grave and the Day of Judgement, therefore wise is the person who considering this short period of time sufficient becomes occupied with preparations of the grave and the Day of Judgement and do not waste his precious time in useless activities, as it is not known whether he will be alive or death will make him fall into a deep sleep for a long time the very next moment. So considering one’s youth and life as sufficient, one should become occupied with doing good deeds.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Value five (things) before five (other) things: Youth before old age, health before illness, wealth before poverty, leisure time before being busy and life before death.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 245, Hadees 5174)

If we are also occupied with preparing for the grave and Hereafter instead of spending our youth heedlessly, then by the blessings of this, not only will it improve our world, but we will also be rewarded a lot by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the grave, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Regarding this, let’s listen to a very beautiful parable.

In the era of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ a pious young man was busy worshiping. When he had passed away (in the night after performing his Ghusl, funeral and burial), in the morning when Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was informed about this incident he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to his father in order to express his condolences. Having expressed his condolences he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Why did you not inform me? (Because I also wanted to attend his funeral Salah) He humbly said: O Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! Much part of the night had passed, (therefore, keeping your rest in mind, it was thought better to not inform you). So Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Take me to the grave of this pious young man, thus Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his companions were taken to that young man’s grave. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ called out: O so-and-so! (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said):

وَ لِمَنۡ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّہٖ جَنَّتٰنِ ﴿ۚ۴۶﴾

And one who fears to stand before his Lord, for him are two Paradises.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 27, Surah Ar -Rahman, verse 46)

The (practising) young man replied twice from his grave, ‘Ya Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! My Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon me both of these two Paradises. (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 45, pp. 450, Raqm 5320)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In the abovementioned parable, the young man while protecting himself from sins spent his whole life performing good deeds and after his death this worship brought about his forgiveness and he was blessed with the great blessings of Paradise. Remember! Beauty and youth are mortal wealth and being proud of it is an act of foolishness.

ڈَھل جائے گی یہ جوانی جس پہ تجھ کو ناز ہے تُو بجالے چاہے جتنا چار دن کا ساز ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Instead of being proud over your health and youth and wasting your days and nights in committing sins, develop the pleasure for worship and interest in recitation. During this if you get old and still take interest in worship so اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of having no health and courage, in this state of helplessness, you will continue to get reward equal to the reward of youth.

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When a bondsman reaches the last part of his age (having performed good deeds in the state of Islam), that he does not remember anything (when needed) despite having its knowledge beforehand, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to record those good deeds in his Book of deeds which he used to do when he was healthy.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 293, Hadees 3666)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: If an old man who had been performing worship in his youth is unable to perform more worship owing to old age, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ declares him to be exempted and records, in his Book of deeds, the very same acts of worship he used to do in his youth. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 89)

اِلٰہی ہوں بَہُت کمزور بندہ نہ دنیا میں نہ عُقبٰی میں سزا ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Stressing on the importance of worshipping in youth, Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Zaynuddin ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Rajab Hanbali عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: One who remembered Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when he was young and healthy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will take care of him when he gets old and weak and will grant him good hearing, vision, strength, and intellect. Sayyiduna Abut Tayyib Tabari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was over a 100 years old, yet he was mentally and physically fit and healthy. Someone asked him the secret of his health, so he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه replied, ‘I protected my physical abilities from sins in my youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has retained them for me in my old age.’ On the contrary, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی saw an old begging man. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه said, ‘this person had wasted (the rights) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wasted (his strength) in old age. (Majmu’ah Rasaail Ibn Rajab, vol. 3, pp. 100)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ spent their youth in performing worship and Riyazat and kept protecting themselves from sins, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continued to have the effect of their youth in their old age. But regretfully, our youth instead of being occupied with worship and recitation are killing their precious time by misusing mobile phones, internet, social media and TV. Mobile phone is a part of modern technology, a need of the time and an important means of communication. Where it is useful for us, its misuse is becoming the cause of many types of loss as well. The male and female students of our schools and colleges who we call the builders of the future have become victims of this terrible disaster; some are crazy for games, some are fond of films and songs; some have memory cards full of indecent videos, some exploit night packages by spending the whole night in obscene talks. Likewise, the internet is an important and useful invention of the modern era with countless worldly and religious benefits, but due to this, many evils are also becoming widespread among the youth.

The internet is like a knife which can be used for good and bad, but regretfully the internet is being misused more in our society. The obscene/indecent articles, and stories, dirty pictures and obscene films and dramas that stimulate Nafsani desires have devastated the manners and character, habits and behaviour of the youth. Evils like wasting money and precious time the whole night, telling lies, cheating people, attempting blackmail are becoming rapidly widespread among the youth of our society. In the beginning, the use of internet was confined to only the computer, but since mobile phones have now got this facility, small children are also wasting their future falling prey to this social evil. Deprived of education, the youth who are suffering from this disease, are seen being disgraced after losing manners instead of getting any status in the society.

For Allah’s sake! Wake up to this fact and make up your mind to reform your children including reforming yourself. If we have to introduce our children to modern technology, so we should teach them its right use as well; keep monitoring them as well. In order to use your time and your children’s precious time for gaining advantages from the internet visit the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this website not only offers the facility of online study of the books and booklets related to the topics of Hadees and rules of Hadees, Fiqh and rules of Fiqh, Seerat and Tasawwuf etc. and the Holy Quran, it includes the translation of Kanz-ul-Iman and commentary in Urdu, English, Arabic, Hindi, Gujarati and other different languages of the world but it also has the facility of free downloads.

In addition to this, it has Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat’s Madani Muzakarahs consisting of interesting answers to different questions, Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat, hymns, Na’at, Manqabats and short clips to reform ourselves, of Nigran-e-Shura and preachers of Dawat-e-Islami which you can download, and using Facebook or Whatsapp correctly share with other Islamic brothers.

For seeking guidance in Shar’i rulings, online Dar-ul-Ifta and for relieving people from different problems and spiritual treatments, online Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah is available; Kaat and Istikharah can also be done. In addition to

this, an introduction of some departments of Dawat-e-Islami is included; approximately more than 97 departments and a complete method of financial support regarding running expenses of millions spent in many other Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami via the internet have also been given in which through Sadaqat-e-Wajibah (e.g. Zakah, Fitranah, ‘Ushr, Fidyah of fasts, vows etc.) and Naafilah (Sadaqat and charities etc.) you can take part in virtuous activities. Furthermore, there is also a library named ‘Al-Madinah Library’ in the form of Software which can be installed with the help of a searching option and benefit can be obtained from more than 200 books. Moreover, the timings of Sahari and Iftar and Salah can be obtained in different countries and cities through the ‘Awqat-us-Salat’ Software. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to use these modern technologies in the right way and protect us from sins due to their misuse!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! Take interest in good deeds and do not commit any sin by considering it minor because one sin is a collection of many evil deeds, that is to say, it brings ten other evils with it.

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Even if the sin is just one, it brings forth ten bad habits with it:

1. A person displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by committing sins, and indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Capable of punishing.

2. He (one who commits sins) makes the accursed Satan happy.

3. He distances himself from Paradise.

4. He gets closer to Hell.

5. He harms his own life – the most precious thing.

6. He corrupts his Baatin (pure Nafs).

7. He causes hurt to Kiraman Katibeen [i.e. angels writing his deeds].

1. Such an individual saddens the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his blessed shrine.

2. He makes all the creatures from earth and the heavens a witness to his disobedience.

3. He breaches the trust of all humans and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 30-31)

ہماری بگڑی ہوئی عادتیں نکل جائیں ملے گُناہوں کے اَمراض سے شِفا یا رَبّ

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that even one sin brings about 10 evils, therefore if we commit a sin, we should instantly ask Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His forgiveness. Alas! Some young people who are intoxicated with their age of youth and the mortal world with long hopes heedlessly not following Shar’i commandments, when they have to make repentance they comfort themselves in this manner: These are the days of enjoyment, ‘look at so-and-so person, he has grown so old, but is still alive, on the other hand, I am still healthy and young.’ They live with such false and hollow hopes. As youthfulness starts falling, old age overcomes quickly, then such people realise that now I should intend to make repentance to protect myself from sins and should worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as much as possible. Sometimes we succeed in performing good deeds, but feel very sad when we recall the beautiful moments of our youth and weep by thinking this: If only I had spent my youth in worship and Riyazat! But alas! My youthfulness has gone like any past ‘yesterday’ and now it will never return.

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی has stated some Madani pearls of advice

to the youth who are heedless of worship and delay in repenting: As far as delaying repentance are concerned, one should seriously ponder that as many people of hell will be screaming due to their delay in repenting because one who delays makes his next life over which he has no power, the base of his matters. Perhaps he may not live until tomorrow and if he survives until tomorrow so the way he is unable to give up sins today perhaps he may not have the power over giving it up tomorrow as well. If only he could know that today the hurdle he is facing in the way of his repentance is indeed a victory for lust and lust will not get away from him even tomorrow, but rather it will increase. It further becomes strong due to his habit and the lust that a person makes strong due to his habit is not like the one which he does not make strong. Due to this reason, those who delayed in making repentance were destroyed because they understand the difference between two same things but do not think that it is difficult to get rid of lust; regarding this all the days are alike.

(Remember!) The example of the person delaying in making repentance is like the one who is allowed to uproot one tree but when he sees that the tree is strong and cannot be uprooted unless a very hard labour is made he says, ‘I will uproot it after a year.’ He knows that as long as the tree is there its roots will get stronger. As the age of the person who delays in making repentance increases, he gets weaker, so there is no one more foolish than him, who despite having power did not fight against the weak one and waited for it when he himself gets weak and the one which is weak when gets strong, he will overcome it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 72)

جہاں میں ہیں عبرت کے ہر سو نُمونے مگر تجھ کو اَندھا کیا رنگ و بُو نے

کبھی غور سے بھی یہ دیکھا ہے تُو نے جو آباد تھے وہ مَحَل اب ہیں سُونے

جگہ جی لگانے کی دُنیا نہیں ہے یہ عبرت کی جا ہے تماشا نہیں ہے

مِلے خاک میں اَہلِ شاں کیسے کیسے مکیں ہو گئے لا مکاں کیسے کیسے

ہوئے ناموَر بے نشاں کیسے کیسے زمیں کھا گئی نوجواں کیسے کیسے

جگہ جی لگانے کی دُنیا نہیں ہے یہ عبرت کی جا ہے تماشا نہیں ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed saying of Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی is sufficient to wake up those youth who are lazy in carrying out the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Shari’ah and delay in repenting from their sinful life. Wise is the person who considering this life sufficient repents of his sins and spends the rest of his life in constantly worshiping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The youth, in particular, should not delay in repentance because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much the repentance done by a young man. As the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰهَ تَعَالٰي يُحِبُّ الشَّابَّ التَّائِبَ ’ One who repents in his youth is the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ut-Taubah, Al-Juz 4, vol. 3, pp. 87, Hadees 10181)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like anyone more than a youth who repents.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Mawa’iz, Al-Juz 15, vol. 8, pp. 332, Hadees 43101)

Dear Islamic brothers! In this age of conflicts, for the reformation and moral education of the youth, who are far away from Quran and Sunnah, enjoying their youthfulness, intoxicated by greed and lust for this world, committing sins which are motivated by Nafs and Satan, a 63-day Madani Tarbiyyati Course is also offered by Dawat-e-Islami, a non-political movement of preaching the Quran and Sunnah. Regarding the benefits and importance of this course, in Faizan-e-Sunnat volume 1 page 510, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The 63-day Tarbiyyati course provides an opportunity to adopt the company of the lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is so beneficial for one’s Hereafter that every Muslim who desires to serve Islam would perhaps yearn to enrol in this 63-day (Madani) training course once he is enlightened about its details and curriculum. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Besides Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi [Pakistan] this course is offered in several other cities around Pakistan. The curriculum entails many sciences of knowledge, some of which are Fard for every Muslim adult. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Wudu, Ghusl and a practical demonstration of Salah are taught in this course. The curriculum

also includes learning the method of giving Ghusl to a deceased person, shrouding and burying a dead body, the funeral Salah and Eid Salah etc.

Furthermore, Quranic recitations with proper manners and correct pronunciations of Arabic alphabets is also taught with the help of Madani Qai’dah. Students memorize the last 20 Surahs of the Holy Quran and practice the recitation of Surah Al-Mulk. Through the blessings of this, many people have associated themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and a Madani transformation has taken place in their grey lives. Furthermore, they have intended to devote the beautiful days of their youth to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to promote this Madani aim: ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

اگر سُنّتیں سیکھنے کا ہے جذبہ تم آجاؤ دیگا سِکھا مَدَنی ماحول

تمہیں لُطف آ جائے گا زندگی کا قریب آ کے دیکھو ذرا مَدَنی ماحول

نبی کی مَحَبَّت میں رونے کا انداز چلے آؤ سِکھلائے گا مَدَنی ماحول

سَنور جائے گی آخِرت اِن شَآءَ الله تم اپنائے رکّھو سدا مَدَنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! To attain pleasure in worship and interest in acting upon the Sunnah among the youth, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَتْ بَـرَكَاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَه delivered a speech titled ‘ Jawani ki ‘Ibadat kay Fazaail ’, i.e. Excellence of Worship in Youth in the Urdu language during the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ held on Thursday, 18 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1412 AH, corresponding to 26th September 1991, at the very first Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami – ‘Jami’ Masjid Gulzar-e-Habib’ (situated at Gulistan-e-Okarvi, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi). With help of the very same speech, a booklet namely ‘ How to Spend our Youth? ’ along with many new additions, was compiled by the Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.

In this booklet, with the help of Quranic verses, blessed Ahadees containing Madani pearls and parables of different pious saints, full of wisdom, the youth have been attracted to worship and are persuaded to make them the true slaves of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to develop the thought of the grave and the Hereafter. You too should obtain this booklet from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it from beginning to end. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this booklet will be a great help in understanding the purpose of youth and will make you take interest in worship. This booklet can be read online on the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net). It can also be downloaded for free.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we have had the privilege of listening to the ‘Excellence of Worship in Youth’. Those people who worship and perform Riyazat (spiritual exercises) in their youth are very much loved by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The brightness of worship can be seen on their foreheads; they remain healthy even in their old age and will enjoy the eternal blessings of Paradise after their death. If only we could also become regular in Salah five times a day, offering them in the Jama’at, become habitual of offering the Nawafil of Tahajjud, Ishraq and Chasht and among those who act upon the Sunnah!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

عبادت میں گزرے مِری زِندگانی کرم ہو کرم یا خدا یا اِلٰہی!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessing of the association of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami not only countless benefits are obtained, but one’s mind is also made to participate in the 12 Madani activities. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan (adults Islamic brothers) is also one of the 12 Madani Zayli activities in which free education of the Glorious Quran is provided and learning and teaching the Quran is considered as one of the greatest and noblest of acts.

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ The best amongst you is the one who learnt the [Glorious] Quran and taught it to others. (Sahih Bukhari, Fazaail-ul-Quran, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 5027)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Regarding the importance and the need of learning and teaching the Glorious Quran and to spread the teachings of the Glorious Quran, thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Baalighan for Islamic brothers are conducted at various Masajid etc. under Dawat-e-Islami and thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Balighat for Islamic sisters are also conducted in different timings at different places. Islamic brothers teach Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters. Various Du’as are memorised along with teaching and learning the Glorious Quran with proper pronunciations, rulings about Salah are learnt and free education of the Sunnah is attained. Therefore, you too should participate in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan to improve your worldly life and the Hereafter. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi has stated: Which sins of mine should I mention! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, not offering Salah, playing computer games, watching obscene programmes on television every day, lying and even stealing were some of the sins I used to commit fearlessly.

Luckily, in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1421 A.H. 2000, I was blessed with the privilege of taking part in the collective I’tikaf with some lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of Dawat-e-Islami in Jaami’ Masjid Aaminah,

situated in Shakeel Garden, Aukhai complex, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. After the collective I’tikaf, I joined the Madrasa-tul-Madinah that was held on the second floor of Aaminah Masjid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I began to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami which was held in Faizan-e-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my efforts, a Madani atmosphere has been created in my home. I play the cassettes of the Sunnah-Inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah at home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have memorised the entire Holy Quran and I’m currently doing Dars-e-Nizami in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. I also teach in Madrasa-tul-Madinah and I am trying to spread the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami under the guidance of the Nigran of my Zayli Mushawarat.

­­­

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, verse 37:

وَ لَا تَمۡشِ فِی الۡاَرۡضِ مَ ـ رَ حًا ۚ

اِنَّکَ لَنۡ تَخۡرِقَ الۡاَرۡضَ وَ لَنۡ تَبۡلُغَ الۡجِبَالَ طُوۡلًا ﴿۳۷﴾

And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you achieve height of the mountains.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 15, Bani Israel, verse 37)

1. It is stated on page 78 of Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16 – the 312-page book – published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking haughtily]. He was sunk into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

2. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sometimes used to hold the hand of his companion in his blessed hand while walking.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 277)

3. When the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

4. Never walk with pride, wearing a chain of gold or any other metal, with the front buttons [of the shirt] open as if to show off. This is the style of the unwise, arrogant and transgressors. It is Haraam for men to wear a gold chain around the neck. Wearing other metallic chains is also not permissible.

5. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in astonishment, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill. One should not hold the hand of any Amrad . Holding the hand of any Islamic brother or shaking hands with him or hugging him with lust is a H aram act leading to the hellfire.

6. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered. Sayyiduna Hasan Bin Abi Sinaan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان went to offer Eid Salah . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came back home, his wife asked him: How many women did you see? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained silent. When she insisted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘I kept looking towards my toes from exiting home till returning to you.’

(Kitab-ul-Wara’ ma’ Mawsu’ah Imam Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 1, pp. 205)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The pious bondmen of Allah don’t look here and there unnecessarily while walking, especially when they are in a crowded place lest their eye should fall on someone who is not permitted by the Shari’ah to look at. This was the piety of our saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . The ruling is that if you look at a woman unintentionally and avert your gaze immediately, you will not be sinful.

1. It’s not appropriate to look at someone’s balcony or windows unnecessarily.

2. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise. Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not like the sound made by shoes .

3. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

4. Spitting, blowing your nose, inserting a finger into the nostril, scratching the ear, removing dirt from the body with your fingers, scratching the private parts etc. in front of people while walking, sitting or standing, are all contrary to manners.

5. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

6. While walking, abide by the laws that are not contrary to Shari’ah. For example, use the zebra crossings or the overhead bridges whilst crossing the road, if available.

Cross the road by looking towards the direction of the traffic. If you are in the middle of the road and the vehicle is approaching, then instead of running, stay still where you are standing as this is safer. Moreover, crossing the railway tracks during train times is like inviting death. The one crossing the railway track assuming the train to be very far away should not rule out the danger of getting entangled in wires in haste or carelessness and falling under the train. Furthermore, at certain places,

1. it is contrary to the law to cross railway tracks. Abide by these laws, especially at stations.

2. Walk for 45 minutes doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi every day with the intention of gaining strength to worship. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will remain healthy. A better way of walking is to walk at a fast pace for the first 15 minutes, medium pace for next 15 minutes and then fast again for the last 15 minutes. In this way, the whole body will be exercised. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . T he digestive system will function properly, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; you will be safe from countless diseases including heart-related ones.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

