اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Consequence of having Non-Mahrams’ Company

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times in the night and day of Friday, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil 100 of his needs, 70 of the Hereafter and 30 of the world.’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkaar, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2229)

تمہارا نام مصیبت میں جب لیا ہوگا ہمارا بِگڑا ہوا کام بن گیا ہوگا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Everyone may well be aware of the fact that Islam has declared it very important to observe Shar’i veil. As long as Muslim women observed Islamic veil strictly, Islamic society remained very successful and affluent. But when the Muslims gave up observing Islamic veil, our society was led to the brink of disaster with many social evils becoming common, such as unlawful gazing, obscenity, vulgarity, unlawful love. In today’s speech, we will be listening to the Madani pieces of advice about the same topic. Let’s first listen to a parable in this regard.

Satanic trap

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin Ziyad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام was present somewhere. The cursed Satan came to him. Satan was wearing a multi-coloured large cap. He came near Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, removed the colourful cap and placed it in front of him. Then he said: ‘O Musa (عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام)! Peace be upon you.’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام asked him: ‘Who are you?’ He said: ‘I am Iblees (Satan).’ Listening to it, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام said: ‘You are Iblees! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ not protect you! May you be ruined! Why have you come to me?’ The cursed Iblees replied: ‘In the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you have a great and high status. You area Holy Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Hence I have come to say Salam to you.’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام asked: ‘Why are you wearing this multi-coloured cap? What do you do by means of it?’ Iblees replied: ‘This is my trap. Through it, I capture the hearts of people. I entrap and defeat them.’ Listening to it, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام further asked: How do you defeat the pious people? Satan replied: When man gets proud (of his deeds), considers his good deeds to be important, and forgets his sins, so I entrap him and defeat him. O Musa (عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام)! I warn you of 3 things:

1. Never stay with a non-Mahram woman in seclusion [i.e. in privacy] because when a man is [in seclusion] with a non-Mahram woman, I am the third one between them and I make them commit the sin.

Whenever you make any promise to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, do fulfil it. And be quick to fulfil it because whenever a person makes a promise to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I and my fellows obstruct him from fulfilling it.

Whenever you intend to give Sadaqah to anyone, act upon it immediately because whenever a person makes such good intention, I and my fellows whisper to him, obstructing him from [performing] this good deed.

The cursed Satan then went away, saying: ‘Alas, Musa (عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام) has been aware of all of my three attacks through which I mislead and deceive people. Now Musa (عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام) will inform people about them.’

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat – translated, vol. 1, pp. 192; ‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat – Arabic, pp. 123)

مَحَبَّت میں اپنی گما یا الٰہی

نہ پاؤں میں اپنا پتہ یا الٰہی

رہوں مست و بے خُود میں تیری ولا میں

پلا جام ایسا پلا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The third one is Satan

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that one of the deadliest attacks of Satan is to make a person stay with a non-Mahram person in seclusion [i.e. in privacy]. If a man is with a woman in seclusion, then Satan encourages them to commit sin. Indeed staying with a non-Mahram person in seclusion opens the door of sins. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ لَا یَخْلُوَنَّ رَجَلٌ بِامْرَاَۃٍ اِلَّا کَانَ ثَالِثَھُمَا الشَّیْطَانُ ’ i.e. whenever a man is with any non-Mahram woman in seclusion, then surely, the third one with them is Satan.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 67, Hadees 2172)

Commenting on the above Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Whenever a man is alone with a non-Mahram female - even if they are pious and have gathered for a pious cause - Satan will most certainly encourage them to do the evil act and arouse their sexual emotions. There is a risk of them

Committing the sin! Therefore, one must be very cautious of such seclusion. It is necessary to avoid even the causes of evil. If you want to prevent fever, prevent the cold. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 21; slightly amended)

‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made the following comment about this blessed Hadees: Whenever a woman is alone with a non-Mahram man, this is a favourable opportunity for Satan. He makes both of them have indecent thoughts in their hearts, arouses their sexual emotions, and encourages both of them to be shameless and indulge in sin.

(Fayd-ul-Qadeer Sharh Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 3, pp. 102, Taht-al-Hadees 2795)

Dear Islamic brothers! Islamic veil must be observed between male and female cousins. If male and female cousins stay with each other in seclusion, behave informally towards each other, joke with each other, etc. it can really have terrible consequences.

Remember! A man must observe Islamic veil with his wife’s sister, brother’s wife, wife of paternal uncle and that of maternal uncle. It is not permissible to be in seclusion with them or behave informally towards them. People who commit these sins should tremble with fear in case they face the Divine punishment. These acts may displease Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, causing destruction in the worldly life as well as in the afterlife. Moreover, if a woman considers any non-Mahram man to be her father, brother or son; he cannot become her actual father, brother or son merely for this reason. Even Nikah with them is valid.

In our society, it is commonly seen that a man considers any non-Mahram woman as his ‘mother’, a girl considers any non-Mahram man as her ‘brother’, a woman considers any non-Mahram as her ‘son’, a girl considers any non-Mahram as her ‘paternal uncle’ or even ‘father’. In the name of these so-called relationships, these types of people violate Islamic laws of veil, indulging in severe sins.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us from these evils! Those who form these types of so-called relationships with non-Mahrams should fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Indeed, Satan does not warn before attacking. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Avoid the world and women because the very first Fitnah [i.e. evil] that arose among the Bani Israel was that of women.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1465, Hadees 2742)

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to remain safe from satanic trap and destructive consequences of lust, it is extremely essential for a non-Mahram man and woman to observe Islamic veil with each other. They should never stay with each other in seclusion and should refrain from unlawful gazing.

At first, driven by lust, they get closer to each other. After they get closer, they start conversing with each other, which gradually leads to informal conversation, jokes and laughter.

Even if they do not fall in love with each other in the beginning, informal talking usually results in both of them loving each other after some time. At first, sometimes only one of them falls in love and hesitates to inform the other about it, but frequent meetings and talking make it easy to express love to the other who also falls in love. This love affair then causes so many evils that are beyond description.

Regarding the destructiveness caused by unlawful love, let’s listen to some pieces of advice from the 616-page book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness] authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

Destructiveness of unlawful love

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated describing the destructiveness of unlawful love: These days, there is a rapidly growing trend of romantic love . The main cause of it is that most Muslims do not have necessary Islamic knowledge and are away from religious environment. This has also caused a flood of sins everywhere. Watching love stories and dramas on TV, mobile phones and internet etc., reading novels, monthly magazines, digests, romantic fictions and exaggeratedly love-related news published in newspapers, attending coeducational classes at colleges and universities and freely meeting and talking to non-Mahram relatives are the causes of love among the youth of today.

At first, love is one-sided but the other partner when informed about it also sometimes falls in love, leading to a severe storm of sins. These lovers then engage in shameless talking on the phone and even meet each other, exchange love letters and gifts, and secretly promise to marry each other. If

their family members cause any obstruction, they sometimes elope [i.e. run away], and the news of their elopement is published in papers, causing disgrace for their families. At times, they get married by court, but sometimes they go beyond all moral bounds even without marriage, and then the corpses of the illegitimate [i.e. unlawful] babies of such cruel unmarried couples are found lying at garbage. Furthermore, if they are unable to run away, then they commit suicide. These types of news are often published in newspapers.

دیکھے ہیں یہ دن اپنی ہی غفلت کی بدولت سچ ہے کہ برے کام کا انجام برا ہے

فریاد ہے اے کشتیِ اُمت کے نگہبان بیڑا یہ تباہی کے قریب آن لگا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unlawful love through mobile phone

Dear Islamic brothers! No one can deny the fact that mobile phone and internet have played a big part in promoting unlawful love besides causing many other moral and social evils in the present era.

These days, for the satisfaction of the desires of Nafs and in the name of passing time, young men usually contact any non-Mahram girl through mobile phone. They then continue to contact them through SMS, WhatsApp, Facebook etc. Soon, they have friendly relationship with each other, which results in indecency and unlawful love on a permanent basis.

Mobile may cause mental and psychological illness

Mobile phone may be used to form unlawful relationship with non-Mahrams and to indulge in Haraam deeds. There are many other side effects of it. Many youths waste their time and money because of the mobile phone. They could have gained knowledge and improved skills by using their time properly, but they waste it by misusing the mobile phone. Mobile phone can cause physical, mental and spiritual diseases. A spiritual and mental disease is more dangerous than a physical one. A spiritual disease causes bad manners

and a mental disease causes anxiety and depression, endangering the future of a person. The ratio of the diseases related to blood pressure, heart attack and depression is increasing due to the misuse of the mobile phone. Depression is extremely harmful to the family life of a person. The husband and the wife quarrel with each other, shattering the peace of the family. Moreover, these days, mobile phone is also a cause of road accidents. Despite strict laws, many people, when driving a car or riding a bike, talk on mobile phone or hear song or music on it. For this reason, they do not hear the sound of the horn of other vehicles, which causes horrific accidents.

Importance of gaze

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to protect yourself from these harms of the mobile phone; you should use only a simple mobile phone only when necessary. Do not use even a simple mobile phone to send any useless message or to contact a non-Mahram person.

Moreover, we should also refrain from using our eyes unlawfully. Even if our eye unintentionally falls on any non-Mahram woman, we should immediately lower our eyes instead of gazing her. Remember! Unlawful gazing is the sinful path that leads a person to having relationship with non-Mahram people. Hence, we should nip the evil in the bud.

Unfortunately, many people do not protect their eyes even from Haraam scenes. Remember! Our eyes are a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If we see Halal things using our eyes with good intentions, we can be entitled to reward. And if we misuse our eyes, we may deserve being punished. For example, if obedient offspring look at their mother with affection, they get the reward of an accepted Hajj; and if anyone looks at any non-Mahram with lust, he will deserve the torment of Hell because watching non-Mahram woman is the fornication of the eyes.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَلْعَيْنَانِ تَزْنِيَانِ ’ i.e., even eyes commit adultery.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 84, Hadees 3912)

And Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: ‘ زِنَا الْعَيْنَيْن النَّظَرُ ’ ‘Looking’ is the fornication [i.e. adultery] of the eyes. (Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 358, Hadees 2152)

Do not even look at the shawl of woman

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A man, who is not able enough to shut his eyes, cannot also protect his private parts. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 125)

Sayyiduna ‘Ala Bin Ziyad رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated:

لَا تَتَّبِعْ بَصَرَكَ رِدَاءَ الْمَرْاَةِ فَاِنَّ النَّظَرَ يَجْعَلُ فِی الْقَلْبِ شَهْوَةً

Do not look at even the shawl of a woman because looking creates lust in the heart. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 277, Raqm 2217)

Needle of fire

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Abul Faraj ‘Abdur Rahman Bin Jawzi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has narrated: Seeing the beauty of a woman is one of the poison-tipped arrows of Satan. One who does not protect his eyes from non-Mahram, needle of fire will be passed across his eyes on the Day of Judgement. (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 171)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ponder over it! Our hands tremble while applying kohl. If the kohl-needle touches our eye even slightly, or the kohl is stronger, we scream out of pain.

When a mere kohl-needle causes us intense pain, so what will become of us if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes displeased with us and a needle of fire is passed across our eyes as punishment for unlawful gazing!

Nowadays, people have become extremely habitual of unlawful gazing. م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, they miss no chance to look at non-Mahram women. In order to fulfil this filthy and dirty purpose, they wander in the marketplaces, shopping centres, parks and every such place which is crowded with women who do not observe veil. They unlawfully gaze at women, ruing their worldly life as well as the afterlife. In the book Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, Sayyiduna Imam

Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام has said: Refrain from unlawful gazing because unlawful gazing sows the seed of lust in the heart. This lust then drives the unlawfully-gazing person to indulge in evil. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 2)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that unlawful gazing destroys a person’s worldly life as well as the afterlife. It leads him to commit countless sins, making him disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Satan captures his heart and mind. He has no peace of mind. He always feels desires of Nafs [i.e. baser-self] and has evil thoughts. To satisfy the desires of Nafs, he further indulges in sins like unlawful relationships and other Haraam acts. He even indulges in masturbation [1] . If a person habitual of unlawful gazing gets aware that a non-Mahram man is unlawfully gazing at his own mother, sister, wife or daughter; then he cannot endure it. On the other hand, when he himself gazes at a woman unlawfully, why does he forget the fact that she is also someone’s mother, sister, wife or daughter!

Veil for women

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only should we protect our own eyes from unlawful gazing, but also we should motivate the [Maharim] female members of our family to observe Islamic veil.

Observance of veil is extremely essential for women. Non-observance of veil sometimes proves to be very harmful. Non-observance of Islamic veil is one of the causes of indecency and immodesty in our society. Some liberal-minded women consider veil to be a type of detention and regard it awkward to observe veil, م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ . These types of people should learn that observance of veil is actually a blessing, not a burden. It preserves the honour of women. It is as if observance of Islamic veil serves as a shield for women. Remember that the commandment of observing Islamic veil is given by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In part 22, Ayah 59 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, it is stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا النَّبِیُّ قُلْ لِّاَزْوَاجِكَ وَ بَنٰتِكَ وَ نِسَآءِ الْمُؤْمِنِیْنَ یُدْنِیْنَ عَلَیْهِنَّ مِنْ جَلَابِیْبِهِنَّؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Nabi! Command your wives and your daughters and the women of the Muslims to cover their faces with a part of their headgear.

In part 18, Ayah 31 of Surah An-Noor, it is stated:

وَ لَا یُبْدِیْنَ زِیْنَتَهُنَّ اِلَّا مَا ظَهَرَ مِنْهَا وَ لْیَضْرِبْنَ بِخُمُرِهِنَّ عَلٰى جُیُوْبِهِنَّ۪-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And not to reveal their adornment except what is itself apparent, and to keep putting their head coverings over their bosoms.

But alas! Women, in our society, do not observe veil and even mock the veil-observing fortunate Islamic sisters who act upon the Quranic commands. If they attend any gathering of women wearing a ‘Madani Burqa’, they hear comments such as ‘ What’s this you’ve put on, take it off’, ‘alright, we know you wear a veil, you can take it off now’, ‘the world has progressed, this is so old-fashioned’, etc. (م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ). Such disheartening comments break the hearts of veil-observing Islamic sisters into thousands of pieces.

Though, situation is very painful and the Islamic sister who wears a full Islamic veil is always faced with a severe tribulation; but she should not lose hope. Starting a heated debate or arguing with anyone who ridicules you or objects to your clothing could cause a lot of damage. This kind of attitude could make a situation worse instead of better.

In order to comfort your heart in such circumstances, think to yourself that until our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم announced his Nubuwwah, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was respected by the evil unbelievers who referred to him using titles such as ‘Trustworthy’ (Ameen) and ‘Truthful’ (Sadiq), but as soon

as he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to publicly preach Islam, the same malicious unbelievers began to hurt, ridicule and swear at him. Not only that, they even attempted to take his life. Amazingly, despite these circumstances, the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم remained steadfast, and always patient. Now Islamic sisters should be patient and think, ‘As long as I was fashionable and did not observe veil, no one ridiculed me; but as soon as I began to observe veil, people began to taunt me; I thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for granting me the opportunity to act upon the Sunnah of bearing cruelty.’

It is my Madani request to Islamic sisters, no matter how much pain you experience, do not be impatient. Do not utter even a single word unless Shari’ah permits. A Hadees-e-Qudsi states that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘O son of Aadam! If you are patient and seek reward at the first instance of sadness, then I will not get pleased for you with any reward other than Paradise.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 266, Hadees 1597)

بِلا حساب ہو جنَّت میں داخلہ یا رَبّ

پڑوس خُلد میں سرور کا ہو عطا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What is veil?

Dear Islamic brothers! Advising women about veil, Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Women should observe veil so properly that men could not see them in any way. (Fath-ul-Baari, Kitab-ut-Tafseer, vol. 9, pp. 390, Taht-al-Hadees 4750)

Women, from head to foot, should remain hidden from strange men. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 13) If anyone wants to protect anything from the eyes of non-Mahrams, he hides it. What does the ‘non-Mahram’ actually mean here? This can be understood by having a look at the following Hadees. The Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ فَاِذَا خَرَجَتۡ اِسۡتَشۡرَفَهَا الشَّيۡطَانُ ’ i.e. when she comes out, Satan looks at her. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 392, Hadees 1176)

Commenting on the Arabic word ‘ اِسۡتِشۡرَاف ’ [Istishraaf] mentioned in the above Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It means watching something carefully or it means making something attractive so that people will look at it. In other words, when a woman does not observe veil, Satan makes her look attractive to people who then gaze her for no obvious reason. As the saying goes, ‘One likes the wife of someone else and children of his own. And one considers others to be richer than him and considers himself to be wiser than others.’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 17)

کریں اسلامی بہنیں شرعی پردہ

عطا ان کو حَیا شاہِ اُمَم ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Why is purdah only for women?

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, Islam is such a pure religion which guards the honour and chastity of women, it is for the reason, woman is commanded to stay in the home so that she, staying in the home, could take care of domestic affairs gracefully, fulfil the rights of her husband, give proper upbringing to her children and guard her chastity and honour. A woman’s stay in her home is immensely important and it guarantees many advantages. In this context, let’s listen to some Madani pearls mentioned on page 105 of the 170-page book ‘ Islami Zindagi ’:

1. A woman is a wealth of the home and the wealth is kept hidden. It is of great risk to show it to everyone as it might be stolen. Similarly, it is necessary to hide woman from others.

Woman in home is like a flower in a garden and the flower blossoms in garden. If it is brought out of its garden, plucking from its bud then it will get faded. In the same way, woman’s garden is her home and family. Don’t bring her out of her home for nothing otherwise she will also get

faded. A woman’s heart is extremely delicate and it accepts every kind of effect very soon. It is for the reason, they are described as fragile glass.

In our society, woman is called ‘Sinf-e-Naazuk’ (sensitive gender) so the sensitive things should be kept away from the stones. She might get hurt. The gazes of strange people are like hard stones for her. Therefore, protect her from the strange people.

A woman is an honour and dignity of her husband, father and grandfather even for her entire family. The similitude of woman is that of pure white clothing; even a little spot on it appears visibly and the gazes of strange people are dirty stains for her. So, she should be protected from these stains.

The most glowing praise for a woman is that she should not pay attention towards any non-Mahram other than her husband and if she acts on the contrary then understand that she has lost her excellence and quality thereafter she would not feel like to deal domestic affairs properly that would lead to destruction of her home.

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed that how important it is to observe veil for women. Things are worsening day by day, so there is a dire need to be conscious as much as possible. Therefore, we should also make our women understand with affection; guide them about the disadvantages of not observing veil and make them regular in observing veil. Some of those Islamic sisters who, due to some social compulsion, go out for work, do not observe veil rather they describe the excuse of not observing veil in this way that this is not possible for them. The following parable of Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Hakeem رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would suffice for making all such Islamic sisters understand:

Did not quit observing purdah despite hardship

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Zubayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: During the conquest of Makkah, after the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم entered the blessed city of Makkah Mukarramah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا, the son of Abu Jahl Sayyiduna ‘Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, (who was a non-Muslim that time), said, ‘I would not live where I have to face the killers of my father’. So, he went to his in-laws’ home

and asked his wife to pack up his luggage. They tried to stop him saying, ‘O the leader of the youth of Quraysh! Where are you going to? You are going to such a place where you will not be recognised.’ But Sayyiduna ‘Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ refused. When Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Hakeem Bint-e-Haaris رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا came to the court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to embrace Islam, she requested, ‘O the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! ‘Ikrimah is running away from you to Yemen, fearing that you would execute him. Please grant him amnesty.’

After hearing this, the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted him amnesty. Thereafter, in search of Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, Sayyidah Umm-e-Hakeem Bint-e-Haaris رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, observing purdah, reached at the beach of ‘Tihamah’. Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also approached there and boarded a boat, it began to sway. The sailor said: Remember your Rab with sincerity. Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: What words should I recite? He said: Say ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا الله ’. Upon this, Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Due to these words, I reached here, just get me off here. In the meantime, Sayyidah Umm-e- Hakeem رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw him at Tihamah coast and began to convince him, ‘O the son of my uncle! I have come from the noblest and the most virtuous person (i.e., the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Do not destroy yourself.’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا then informed him about the amnesty that she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا sought for him from Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Thereafter, he asked, ‘Have you really done that?’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا replied, ‘Yes, I pleaded and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has granted you amnesty.’ Sayyiduna Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then returned to Makkah with his wife Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Hakeem رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

When Sayyiduna ‘Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came in the court of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was pleased to see him. Sayyiduna ‘Ikrimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood before the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم alongside his wife who was covered in a veil. He then said, ‘I testify that there is none worthy of worship but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is His bondman and Rasool of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. He made all present witness to the fact that he had embraced Islam and had become a Muslim. Thereafter, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sought forgiveness from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for his past misdeeds. (Kitab-ut-Tawwabeen, pp. 123)

Dear Islamic brothers! In this parable, there are many Madani pearls for all of us that after having embraced Islam, Sayyidah Umm-e-Hakeem رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا travelled a long way to bring her husband into the fold of Islam but did not give up Islamic teachings on any situation and kept observing veil during such difficult journey. Thus finally her thought and vision of making her home a garden of Islam came true and her husband embraced Islam.

When you face troubles in the way of developing Madani environment in your home then recall the great sacrifices of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and the hardship they suffered in the way of Allah and remember that this path is full of hardships and adherence to it is an act of outstanding courage. The true loyalty is that when you attain the blessings of Madani environment, do not let your other family members keep away from this Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a global, non-political movement for propagation of Quran and Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is progressing by leaps and bounds and more or less 103 departments have been established. Let’s listen to the introduction of ‘Al-Madinah Library’ which is an extremely important department of Dawat-e-Islami.

Introduction to Majlis Al-Madinah Library

In today’s predominantly evil and sinful era, over 100 departments, under Dawat-e-Islami, are actively serving in the propagation of Sunan, the publication of ‘Ilm-e-Deen and for calling towards righteousness. In order to spread Islamic teachings in a quick and easier way, a department ‘Majlis Al-Madinah Library’ has been set up having facilities to listen audio/video Bayanaat and Madani Muzakarahs. For viewing Madani Channel, computers etc., have also been arranged. All these facilities are available in a very pleasant and friendly environment of Al-Madinah Library . Besides this, Al-Madinah Library contains books and booklets on various topics and issues authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, Sunni scholars and compilation of work of Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah. We can also benefit ourselves with the blessings of ‘Ilm-e-Deen by taking advantage of this facility.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Chowk Dars’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! You are also requested to participate in the 12 Zayli Madani activities of Dawat-e- Islami with body and soul for propagating the call towards righteousness. One of these Madani activities is called ‘Chowk Dars’ (Dars at a busy place). Remember! In Chowk Dars, ‘Ilm-e-Deen (Islamic teachings) are conveyed and similarly, Chowk Dars is a brilliant source of ‘ اَمۡرٌ بِالۡمَعۡرُوۡفِ وَنَهۡيٌ عَنِ الۡمُنۡكَر ’ and it brings countless excellences.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever conveys an Islamic teaching to my Ummah so that a Sunnah will be established by it or corrupt beliefs will be removed by it, will enter Heaven.’

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1 pp. 45, Hadees 14466)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keep the one fresh who listens to my Hadees, memorizes it and conveys it to others.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 298, Hadees 2665)

Dear Islamic brothers! Chowk Dars encompasses great blessings, sometimes, by the blessing of attending Chowk Dars brings about such a Madani transformation that the people repent of their sins and began their journey to the straight path. In this context, let’s listen to a Madani parable:

Blessings of delivering Chowk Dars alone

One Islamic brother from the Lines Area of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi stated: I was standing on the roof of my house when I saw an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami, with a green ‘Imamah on his head, giving Chowk Dars all alone by the street corner. No one was sitting there to listen to him. Even though I was away from religion and would avoid Islamic brothers who wore green ‘Imamahs, when I saw that brother giving Dars all alone, I felt bad. I went down and joined his Dars in sympathy.

Joining that Dars became a source for my reformation and I became attached to the Madani environment. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at the time of giving this statement, I am a Zimmahdar of Madani In’amaat in my locality. There was a time when I

used to run away from people wearing green ‘Imamahs and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today the crown of the green ‘Imamah is shining on my head.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Immoral acts of Valentine’s Day

Dear Islamic brothers! At present, the non-practicing attitude amongst Muslims is getting worse day by day. We Muslims, keeping aside the teachings of Islam, feel pride over adopting the customs and practices of disbelievers especially on their special event of celebration, Muslims waste a lot of money and their time and commit the grave sins such as lustful gazing, drinking alcohol and adultery etc., and they do not feel even the least shame while committing such heinous acts. Such types of immoral acts are committed openly on the occasion of Valentine’s Day.

On this day, people rush beyond the Shar’i bounds indulging in unlawful activities. The noticeable evils which are part of the celebration of this event are: Free mingling of boys and girls without veil and utmost immodesty, exchanging of gifts, leering and committing immoral activities and other Valentine items reach their peak. This evil festival promotes obscenity and vulgarity, and it leads the youth go astray. As the Muslims countries do not allow this day as holiday, youth are in pursuit to find some secure place to fulfil their lustful desires. It is for the reason, booking in hotels increase on Valentine’s Day as compared to other days. Alcohol is consumed excessively. All immoral activities are on peak everywhere as soon as this festival of obscenity approaches.

Those countries where non-believers are free to commit the acts of obscenity and vulgarity without religious and ethical bounds and these shameful acts are permitted under the law. Nevertheless, such shameful acts of merrymaking have brought the signs of concerns even in those countries and as a result protests against these evil acts are recorded from time to time.

It is a matter of great regret that on this day, like non-Muslim, our Muslims also indulge in evil activities, putting aside the righteous commandments of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; through this, they not only add hoards of sins in their account of deed but also the sanctity of Muslim society gets polluted due to such evil and immoral activities. Free mingling of boys and girls, exchanging of gifts, leering and then such evil acts lead to even adultery. These are all those awful acts that remain continue on this day of obscenity. No Muslim can have even a least doubt over this concept that all these satanic acts are impermissible and Haraam because the blessed Ayahs of Glorious Quran and the clear blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم proved these acts forbidden.

Introduction to booklet ‘Sahabiyyat aur Pardah’

Dear Islamic brothers! For acquiring a lot of information about purdah (veiling), read the 57-page booklet namely ‘ Sahabiyyat aur Pardah ’ publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this booklet, you will go through Madani pearls derived from the Glorious Quran and Sunnah as well as ‘disadvantages of unveiling’ and some Madani pearls regarding ‘purdah’ (veil) taken from the different books of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat. Moreover, for more information about the immoral activities of Valentine’s Day, read the booklet ‘Valentine’s Day’.

ہر گھڑی شرم و حَیا سے بس رہے نیچی نظر

پیکرِ شرم و حیا بن کر رہوں آقا مُدام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Purdah from the departed souls

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! Women, in the matters of purdah, make various excuses and show a great deal of laziness. If we study the biography of blessed female companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ we would learn that not only did they observe purdah from the living people but also observed purdah from those who departed this world and thus got their names written in golden words in the history.

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: ‘When I used to enter my home in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and my respectable father are resting, I would not take Shawl, thinking that here is my husband and father. Since Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was laid to rest here, so by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I enter [there] observing purdah feeling shy from him [i.e., Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ ].

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 10. pp. 12, Hadees 25718)

Interpretation of the blessed Hadees

Commenting on the blessed Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It means as far as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were resting in my Hujrah (room), I used to enter my Hujrah with or without my head being covered, because there is no purdah from husband nor is from father but when Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was laid to rest there, I did not enter my Hujrah without chador (shawl) and complete purdah as I feel shy of Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Through the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, we have learnt many rulings: Very first Madani pearl is that the person should be respected even after his death. The respected Fuqaha commented: People should show same respect to the deceased souls as they were given in their lifetimes. Second Madani pearl is that the blessed graves of the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی should also be given reverence and people should also feel shy of them. Third Madani pearl is that the deceased sees the people standing outside the grave and recognizes them. Look! Sayyidah ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا felt shy of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ even after his demise, if he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had not been able to see anything outside the grave then what does it mean by feeling shy of him? Fourth Madani pearl is that the soil of grave and plank etc., cannot stand as obstacles for their eyes but the dress of visitor does stand as an obstacle so the visitor does not look undressed otherwise what did it mean by going while wearing chador. This is a Divine law. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 527)

Summary of Bayan

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have heard about the evil consequences of interacting and mingling with non-Mahram people, curse of Valentine’s Day and strong condemnation of immodesty and Bay-Pardagi (women without veiling). Undoubtedly, immodesty is the cause of deterioration of society.

Whenever a man and woman meet in seclusion, Satan definitely provokes them to commit evil act.

A woman is a wealth of a home that is needed to be hidden. The risk of theft increases if it is shown to everyone.

For making up the mind of purdah (veiling), have a glance at the blessed biographies of pious female companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ, who, in spite of great hardship, never quit it.

Disobedience of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lies in Bay-Pardagi (women without veiling) and unlawful gazing.

Unlawful gazing is the Zina (fornication) of the eyes.

Unlawful gazing is a satanic act.

Bay-Pardagi (women without veiling) is an evil act leading to Hell.

Bay-Pardagi (women without veiling) is a source of spreading obscenity in society.

Unlawful gazing is one of the arrows of Satan tipped with poison.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us privilege to refrain ourselves from immodesty, unlawful gazing and Bay-Pardagi (women without veiling).

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about Salam

1. When meeting a Muslim, it is Sunnah t o make Salam to him .

There is reward for making Salam to Muslims no matter how many times you meet in a day, even if one leaves and enters a room frequently.

It is a Sunnah to be the first in making Salam.

The one who makes Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The one who makes Salam first is free from pride, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who makes Salam first, is free from pride.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 433)

Ninety mercies descend upon the one who makes Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

One receives 10 virtues for saying ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾, 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ ﴾ is added and 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ is also added.

Similarly, one can receive 30 virtues by replying with ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ .

It is Wajib [obligatory] to immediately reply to a Salam in a voice audible to the one who made the Salam.

1. Learn the correct pronunciation of Salam and the reply of Salam . First, I will say it; then you repeat after me ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾ كُمْ ﴾ – عَلَے – مُ – سَلَا – ﴿ اَسْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَام ﴾ سَلَام ﴾ – مُسْ – لَیْكُ – عَ – ﴿ وَ .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

