Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

The Powers of the Blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ اِنَّ الدُّعَاءَ مَوْقُوْفٌ بَیْنَ السَّمَاءِ وَالْاَرْضِ لَا یَصْعَدُ مِنْہُ شَیْئٌ حَتّٰی تُصَلِّیَ عَلٰی نَبِیِّکَ ’ ‘Supplication remains suspended between the Heavens and the earth and nothing from it moves upwards until you recite Salat upon the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 2, pp. 28, Hadees 486)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1. Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2. The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are those chosen people of Allah Almighty who attained an acclaimed rank in the court of Allah Almighty by acting upon the commands of Allah Almighty throughout their lives. As a reward for their righteous deeds, Allah Almighty blessed them with great glory and grandeur by blessing them with numerous powers through His grace and mercy. In this weekly Ijtima’ of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, we will listen to the Madani pearls regarding what powers Allah Almighty blessed His blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی with. First of all, let’s listen to a saintly miracle of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Soil turned into gold

Once, a woman came in the court of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said: ‘Your Highness! I have three young daughters whom I need to get married. Please help me.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to his servants, ‘Whatever is available in Dargah, give it to the woman.’ The servants humbly said, ‘Your Highness! Nothing is left over today.’ Listening to it, the woman started crying saying that I am helpless and came to you with a lot of hope. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Go and bring a clod of clay from outside.’ She brought the clod of clay from outside. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loudly recited Surah Al-Ikhlas and blew [performed Dam ] over it. Upon this, the clay clod turned into gold. Seeing this, everyone was stunned. The woman brought the gold home.

She attained purity and also blew on a clay clod after reciting Surah Al-Ikhlas but it did not turn into gold. Eventually, she kept performing this action for 3 days but without any luck. Helpless, she came in the court of Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said, ‘Your Highness! I too recited Surah Al-Ikhlas but the soil did not turn into gold.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘You performed the same very action that I performed, but you do not possess the same very tongue as I do.’ (Allah kay Safeer, pp. 298; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From this narration, we found out that the chosen people of Allah Almighty fulfil the needs of distressed, destitute and needy people by helping them out. In case they would not have anything to give to a needy person, even then they would not let them go empty handed and fulfil their need by turning clay into gold by using their powers. We also came to know that the chosen people of Allah Almighty have a unique impact on what they utter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Without the permission of Allah Almighty, no one can even give a tiny particle to anybody. Chosen people of Allah Almighty fulfil the needs of needy people, help the afflicted ones, and cure the ill through the powers given to them by Allah Almighty. Not only this, blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی even resurrect the dead with the power granted to them by Allah Almighty.

Elephant resurrected

Once, Sayyidi Ahmad Jaam Zindah Peel رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was going somewhere and saw a crowd of people on the way. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to them and asked, ‘What happened?’ People humbly said, ‘Elephant has died.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Its trunk is fine, eyes are fine, hands are fine and so are the feet.’ In short, he mentioned all the limbs to be fine and then said, how has it died? As soon as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said this, the elephant resurrected straightaway. Since that day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became famous with the title of “Zindah Peel” (i.e. the one who resurrects elephant). (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 449; summarised)

Can any person resurrect a dead?

Dear Islamic sisters! No doubt, life and death are under the authority of Allah Almighty. However, it is not difficult at all for Him to bless any of His chosen people with the power of resurrecting a dead. Moreover, acknowledging somebody as possessing the power of resurrecting a dead with the bestowal of Allah Almighty does not have any negative impact on our Iman [faith].

Anyhow, if someone carries the belief that Allah Almighty has not given the authority of curing the ill or resurrecting the dead to any of His Nabi or Wali, then having such belief is completely contradictory to the Ayah of the Holy Quran. Therefore, saying of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has been clearly mentioned in part 3, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah no. 49:

اَنِّیْۤ اَخْلُقُ لَكُمْ مِّنَ الطِّیْنِ كَهَیْــٴَـةِ الطَّیْرِ فَاَنْفُخُ فِیْهِ فَیَكُوْنُ طَیْرًۢا بِاِذْنِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ اُبْرِئُ الْاَكْمَهَ وَ الْاَبْرَصَ وَ اُحْیِ الْمَوْتٰى بِاِذْنِ اللّٰهِۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I mould for you from clay, a birdlike figure, and I blow onto it and it immediately becomes a (living) bird, by the permission of Allah. And I heal him, who was born blind, and the leper, and I give life to the dead, by the permission of Allah.

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is clearly announcing that I make a bird out of clay and blow soul into it with the bestowal of Allah Almighty. I give eyes to the innate blind and cure the lepers (i.e. patients having white patches), to the extent that I even resurrect the dead. With the blessings of Ambiya-e-Kiraam عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are also given powers and they also end up performing such actions that stun one’s intellect.

The minister of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyiduna Asif Bin Barkhiya رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, brought the throne of Bilqees from Yemen in the court of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام before the blink of an eye using the power bestowed to him by Allah Almighty. This has been mentioned in the Holy Quran in the following words. Therefore, it is stated in part 19, Surah An-Naml, Ayah no. 40:

اَنَا اٰتِیْكَ بِهٖ قَبْلَ اَنْ یَّرْتَدَّ اِلَیْكَ طَرْفُكَؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘I will present it in your majesty’s court before the blink of an eye .’

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that a Waliyyullah brought an eighty yards long and forty yards wide throne adorned with jewels in the court of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام from Yemen within a very short span of time by the bestowal of the powers from Allah Almighty.

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Allah Almighty has given immense powers to the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Out of them, those who are Ashaab-e-Khidmat (a type of Awliya), they are given authority over everything. These sacred personages are the true Naaib (deputy) of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They are given powers due to being the Naaib (deputy) of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, hidden sciences are revealed upon them. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 267)

The special grace of Allah Almighty is showered upon the chosen people of Allah Almighty. Help is bestowed by Allah Almighty in their tasks.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Who is called a Waliyyullah?

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening further parables regarding the powers of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, let’s first listen to the definition of a Wali.

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Waliyyullah is the one who attains the closeness to Allah Almighty through performing Faraaid [obligatory actions]. He remains busy in the obedience to Allah Almighty and his heart remains engrossed with the cognition of the luminosity of Allah Almighty’s majesty. Whenever he sees, he sees the proofs of the divine power of Allah Almighty. Whenever he listens, he only listens to the Ayahs of Allah Almighty. Whenever he speaks, he does so only with the praise of Allah Almighty. Whenever he makes a movement, he does so in the obedience to Allah Almighty and whenever he makes an effort for anything, he does so for only such thing that is a means of the closeness of Allah Almighty. He does not get tired of the Zikr of Allah Almighty and does not look at anyone else except

Allah Almighty from the eye of his heart. This is the trait of Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . When a person reaches this stage, then Allah Almighty is his helper.

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 344)

Let’s now listen to the definition of Karamah (saintly miracle) as well.

Definition of Karamah (saintly miracle)

While mentioning the definition of Karamah (saintly miracle), Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions in Bahar-e-Shari’at: Any such action performed by a Wali that is against the (عادت) norms is called Karamah (saintly miracle). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 58)

If such kind of things are performed by Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام before the declaration of Nubuwwah, then they are called “Irhaas”; if they are performed after the declaration of Nubuwwah, then they are called “Mu’jizah”; if such actions are performed by the common believers, then it is called “Ma’oonat”; and if a disbeliever performs any such thing according to his desire, then it is called “Istidraaj”. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 36)

An action against the norms refers to those matters that are not generally performed by every human being. For example, things like flying in the air, walking on water, etc.; as normally, a person can neither fly in the air nor can he walk on water. (Faizan Mazaraat-e-Awliya, pp. 46)

Command over water

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty blessed Awliya-e-Kiraam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی with the power of flying in the air. They can easily get to one place from another while flying in the air without wings. There are some such righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty too who even make seas and rivers obedient to themselves. Moreover, they can walk fearlessly over water the way they walk on land.

Crossed river without boat

It is stated in narrations that Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was with some Muslim companions and they needed to cross the river Tigris and they did not have boats at their disposal. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ commanded the Muslims to walk into the river. He himself led the way while reciting the following Du’a:

نَسْتَعِیْنُ بِاللہِ وَ نَتَوَکَّلُ عَلَیْہِ وَ حَسْبُنَا اللہُ وَنِعْمَ الْوَکِیْلُ وَ لَاحَوْلَ وَلَا قُوَّۃَ اِلَّا بِاللہِ الْعَلِیِّ الْعَظِیْمِ

(Translation: We seek help from Allah Almighty and rely only on Him. Allah Almighty is sufficient for us and how great He is Who mends our matters. And neither do we possess the power of refraining from sins nor do we have the power of performing righteousness, but from Allah Almighty, Who is the Greatest of all.)

People started walking on it without any hesitation while talking to each other. Horse riders rode over it on their horses, camel-riders on their camels, and those who were on foot walked over it on foot with their provisions the way caravans pass through the open fields. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, Juz: 2, pp. 341-342, Raqm. 522; summarised)

Reign over the skies too

Dear Islamic sisters! We came to know that the righteous people of Allah Almighty can walk on water and air with the bestowed powers of Allah Almighty. Moreover, they are such dignified personalities that their Du’as are not rejected. When they raise their hands and supplicate for rain in the merciful court of Allah, Allah Almighty sends down a heavy rain due to the blessings of their Du’as which quenches the thirst of the thirsty ones and makes crops and gardens flourish.

Pouring down of rain of mercy

It is stated that once, it completely stopped raining in Sehwan Shareef [Bab-ul-Islam Sindh, Pakistan] and its nearby vicinities, to the extent that no signs of any food were seen far and wide. Streams and wells dried out and

getting water became extremely difficult. After all, people of the area gathered and presented their plea in the court of Sayyiduna La’l [ لعل ] Shahbaz Qalander Sayyid Muhammad Usman Marvandi Kaazimi Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . While fulfilling the obligation of ordering good and forbidding evil, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘You all should make sincere repentance for sins in the court of Allah Almighty and make Du’a with me.’ People instantly sought forgiveness for their sins in the court of Allah Almighty and started repenting. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه raised his hands in the court of Allah Almighty and made Du’a for rain and prosperity.

It is said that Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had not even entered his chamber yet after making the Du’a and Allah Almighty accepted his Du’a and drops of mercy started pouring down. Out of the joy of the grace of Allah Almighty and the acceptance of the Du’a of Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, people cooked food and distributed among poor and destitute. Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arranged for an Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at after the ‘Isha Salah. People collectively performed the Zikr of Allah Almighty and recited Salat and Salam in abundance upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Shan-e-Qalander, pp. 311; summarised)

May the mercy of Allah Almighty be upon him and may we be forgiven without accountability for his sake!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable, we found out that the righteous people of Allah Almighty have great and high ranks in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, making the righteous people as a “Wasilah”, we should make Du’as in the court of Allah Almighty. We further came to know that we shall express joy in a permissible manner upon receiving the mercy of Allah Almighty. That’s why Sayyiduna La’l Shahbaz Qalander ‘Usman Marvandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه paid gratitude to Allah Almighty by conducting an Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at.

Moreover, why shall it not be as the entire lives of the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty are a practical display of the teachings of Quran and Sunnah? But alas! Majority of us are seen disobeying Allah Almighty on the occasions of happiness rather than following the path of the righteous predecessors. The extreme level of immodesty is displayed at such occasions where the rights of each other are violated. Some foolish people مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ arrange for music gatherings on such joyous occasions where boys and unveiled girls dance and sing all night long. In such a mixed environment, people fill their eyes with Haraam due to unlawful gazing.

Remember! Marriage and other occasions of joy are a great blessing of Allah Almighty. We shall know the right way of spending these moments. In order to pay gratitude over the bounty blessed by Allah Almighty, first of all, we shall endeavour to refrain from the disobedience of Allah Almighty in these joyous moments.

Sayyiduna Ziyad Bin ‘Ubayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: One right of Allah Almighty upon the receiver of the blessing is that he should not perform disobedience using that blessing. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 19, pp. 191)

Below are few permissible ways of paying gratitude to Allah Almighty over receiving a Divine blessing:

1. Hamd [i.e. praise] of Allah Almighty should be done through the tongue.

2. One shall arrange for the recitation of the Holy Quran and Ijtima’ of Zikr-o-Na’at.

3. One shall give an abundance of Sadaqah [charity].

4. One shall strive to increase her righteous deeds by making good intentions.

5. In the joy of receiving a blessing, one shall perform the Sajdah of gratitude [Sajdah-e-Shukr]. As whenever our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would receive any happiness, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform the Sajdah of gratitude. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 163, Hadees 1394)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page no. 285 of his remarkable book ‘ Namaz kay Ahkam (Urdu) ’ [Laws of Salah]: It is Mustahab [preferable] to perform Sajdah-e-Shukr on getting any favour such as birth of a baby, attainment of wealth, turning up of a lost thing, curing of a patient, returning of a traveller and the like. Its method is exactly the same as that of Sajdah-e-Tilawat. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 136, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 2, pp. 720)

Similarly, it is an act of reward to perform Sajdah of gratitude upon receiving a good news or blessing.

May Allah Almighty enable us to celebrate happy occasions within the boundaries of Shari’ah!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Imam Raazi and Shaytan

Dear Islamic sisters! Spending life while following in the footsteps of the righteous predecessors is not only a means of attaining numerous virtues in this world and Hereafter but being associated to them is also beneficial for us at the time of our death. As Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه states on page no. 13 of his booklet ‘ Satanic Whispers and Cures for Them ’ that when the dying moments of (Sayyiduna) Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived, Satan appeared. Satan tries very hard to make the dying person lose his faith because he knows that the dying person will never regain faith if he deviates from it at this time. Therefore, Satan asked Sayyiduna Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, ‘You spent your entire life in debates and discussions. Have you even recognized the Allah Almighty?’ Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Without a doubt, the Allah Almighty is One.’ ‘Any proof’, asked Satan. He gave a proof but the cursed Satan, the ex-teacher of angels, responded cunningly. Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave another proof but Satan responded again. Sayyiduna Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave even 360 proofs but all of them were responded by Satan (as per its bad

presumption). Now the Imam was extremely worried and disappointed. His spiritual guide (Sayyiduna Shaykh) Najmuddin Kubra رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was making Wudu at a far-flung area. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called Imam Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from the very same place, ‘Why do you not say that I believe in the Oneness of Allah Almighty without any proof’ (Malfuzaat, part 4, pp. 493; summarised)

Become a Mureed of a Murshid-e-Kamil

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable, we come to know that Allah Almighty has blessed His righteous bondmen with so much power that not only do they see the matters of places several miles away from them but also help them out. Like Sayyiduna Shaykh Najmuddin Kubra رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saved his disciple from Shaytan during his last breaths. We further come to know that becoming disciple of a rightly deserving Peer [spiritual guide – who according to Shari’ah fulfils the conditions of becoming a Peer] is extremely beneficial for one’s Iman [faith]. A Peer is chosen so that one’s matters of the Hereafter get better. So that through the blessings of his guidance and spirituality, the disciple spends her days and nights performing the actions that please Allah Almighty while refraining from the actions that displease Him and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Alas! In today’s day and age, many people have turned the very important responsibility of Peeri Mureedi into a means of attaining this world. Various heretic and misguided people are destroying the Iman of people while apparently pretending to be the possessor of mysticism. In order to know the conditions, attributes and other information regarding a Peer-e-Kamil, read the book ‘ Adaab-e-Murshid-e-Kamil ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Along with obtaining beneficial information, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will develop a mind-set to become a disciple of a Murshid-e-Kamil.

If you still have not become anyone’s disciple so far, then do not worry. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s day and age, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is also a true example of a Murshid-e-Kamil. You can become his disciple. The blessings of his piety and

righteousness are apparent and very clear in front of us in the form of the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. His gaze of Wilayah and Madani Tarbiyyat (edification) full of wisdom has brought a Madani revolution in the lives of the millions of Muslims around the world, especially among the youth. Through his blessings, numerous non-Salah offering people became punctual on offering Salah. Those who had a rude behaviour towards their parents started respecting their parents. Those who were fond of listening to songs and music became engrossed in the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and started listening to Na’ats, Madani Muzakarahs and Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat. Those who used to sing along the songs of films started reciting the Na’ats of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Those whose purpose of life was to only accumulate wealth were given the Madani mind-set of contemplating over the Hereafter. Those who used to waste time by going to recreational places started attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat from start till end.

Therefore, in order to attain the blessings of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and to make the purpose of your life successful, you should accumulate virtuous deeds and provisions for the Hereafter while associating yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami by practically participating in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

‘Madani Visit’, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to increase the passion and respect for the Awliya-e-Kiraam, associate yourselves with Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a movement of devotees of Rasool, and take a part actively in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the eight Madani activities of everyday is ‘Madani visit’, through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their houses. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani visit’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least elderly woman) should make ‘Madani visit’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqahs or the surroundings of their Halqahs (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

I got peace of heart

The following is a summarised statement by an Islamic sister from Punjab (Pakistan): I already had a religious environment in my home as my father was a Muazzin [1] of a Masjid and my elder brother and sister were already affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami. However, my mind was filled with worldly desires and my Nafs was audaciously fond of sins. I had a habit of missing my Salah. One day, some Islamic sisters came to my house in order to invite me to a Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. Their affectionate manner melted my heart and I made an intention to attend the Ijtima’.

When I attended, I heard an Islamic sister delivering a heart-trembling speech about the ‘punishments of missing S alah’ that shook me up. I made a firm intention that ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ from this day on, I would not miss any single Salah’. Then, with the arrival of Rabi’-un-Noor, the season of blessings, I attended a Milad congregation where I heard an Islamic sister deliver a speech, my hair stood on end and tears gushed from my eyes. Since that day onwards until the present day I have been busy striving to reform myself remaining affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Whenever we get a chance, we should sit in the company of the righteous bondwomen of Allah Almighty in order to attain their blessings. Moreover, along with other righteous intentions, one should also intend in the heart that I am adopting their company for religious benefits and the benefits of the Hereafter. One of the benefits for adopting

the company of the righteous bondwomen of Allah Almighty is also that by looking at their nobility, character and righteous deeds, one gets the ability to refrain from sins as well as performing righteous deeds. Hard heartedness is removed. One develops softness and the virtue of tenderness. She develops a mind-set of contemplating upon her end with Iman and terrifying matters of the grave and the Hereafter. In short, whenever anyone is blessed with this privilege, then she shall not go there with any worldly greed, but with the intention of attaining a religious benefit.

Knew what was in his heart

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page no. 419 of the first volume of Faizan-e-Sunnat: Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: We three close friends went towards the village called “Ramlah” in order to behold Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-Ma’la رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . On the way, we decided that every one of us shall have a desire in our heart. I made the intention that I have to take the Munajat and couplets of Sayyiduna Husayn Bin Mansoor Hallaaj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-‘Ala رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The second friend made the intention of attaining cure from the splenic disorder. The third friend said that I have the desire for eating Halvah Sabooni [a kind of sweet dish].

When we reached there, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had the couplets and Munajat of Sayyiduna Husayn Bin Mansoor Hallaaj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه written and ready for me which he handed over to me. He rubbed his hand over the stomach of the second friend and he was cured of the splenic disorder. To the third friend, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Sabooni Halvah is a food of the royal courts; whereas, you have worn the attire of the blessed Sufiya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Out of both of these, choose one of them.’ (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 384)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی become aware of the matters of people’s hearts by the bestowal of Allah Almighty. That’s why Sayyiduna Shaykh Ibn-e-Ma’la رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned the desires of hearts of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his close friends without asking them. Moreover, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fulfilled 2 of the desires and gave Madani pearl of reformation to the third one. If somebody

does so or even bring such thought in her mind, then along with remaining deprived of the blessings of the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, he also faces severe loss.

Face turned black due to having ill-belief for his Murshid

One of the disciples of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had some evil in his intention. He thought that he has also attained an extremely elevated status. Now, he does not need a Murshid. Therefore, he turned away from the court of Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and left. Then one day, he returned to see and test Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه whether he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is aware of the states of his heart or not.

On the other hand, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had also witnessed his state through the luminosity of his spiritual wisdom. Therefore, when that disciple came and asked him a question, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘What kind of answer do you want? Literal [in words] or figurative [in meanings]?’ He said, ‘In both forms.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘If you want a literal answer, then listen! If you had tested yourself before testing me, then you would not have had the need to test me and neither would you have come here to test me. And the figurative answer is that I have taken your rank of sainthood away.’ As soon as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said this, the disciple’s face turned black. Wailing and crying, he said, ‘Your Highness! My heart has been devoid of the joy of belief.’ Then he repented and also expressed remorse over the useless things he uttered. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 137)

Anyhow, we shall never test any of the Awliya. Neither shall we have any bad-assumption about any Wali and nor shall we have any enmity in our hearts for any Wali of Allah. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah Almighty says: ‘ مَنْ عَادَى لِي وَلِيًّا فَقَدْ آذَنْتُهُ بِالْحَرْبِ ’ i.e. the one who has enmity against any of my Wali, I declare war against him .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

May Allah Almighty always keep the eminence and dignity of His blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in our hearts and save us from the company of those who are insolent towards them.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Having animosity against the righteous bondmen of Allah Almighty, being insolent towards them, troubling them in different ways, hurting them by taking over their wealth and possessions unlawfully is sheer foolishness and a means of destruction of this world and the Hereafter. The dignity and grandeur of these sacred personalities are so elevated that even in case all the people collectively bear witness against them on a specific matter, still Allah Almighty creates the means for the witness of their truthfulness and honesty which increases their dignity, grandeur, reverence and fame in the hearts of people even further.

Earth bore witness

One person unlawfully claimed possession over the land of Sayyiduna Baba Fareeduddin Mas’ood Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the court of the governor of the city. Therefore, the governor sent him [Baba Fareeduddin] the message to prove his ownership over the land. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Ask people whose land it is?’ The governor did not get satisfied with the answer and demanded him to present the proof. Sayyiduna Baba Fareeduddin Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Neither do I have any written proof, nor any witness. If you want to ascertain the truth, then ask from the same piece of land.’

The governor was stunned upon listening to this answer. Hence, he went to that very part of the land himself. A huge crowd of people gathered around. The governor asked the piece of land, “O land! Say who is your owner?’ The piece of land loudly proclaimed, ‘I am under the ownership of Sayyiduna Baba Fareed Ganj Shakar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from a long time.’ Listening to this

voice left the governor and all the attendees stunned. (Siyar-ul-Aqtaab - translated, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable, we come to know that even the earth is under the command of the chosen people of Allah Almighty. Moreover, these sacred personalities even command the earth to be their witness as and when needed. Furthermore, we also get the following Madani pearl that we shall never unlawfully occupy anyone’s possessions. Allah Almighty states in part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah no. 188:

وَ لَا تَاْكُلُوْۤا اَمْوَالَكُمْ بَیْنَكُمْ بِالْبَاطِلِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not unfairly consume the wealth of each other.

Dear Islamic sisters! In this blessed Ayah, taking over someone’s possessions unlawfully has been declared Haraam. There are different ways of it:

٭ Snatching someone’s wealth

٭ Stealing someone’s wealth

٭ Taking bribes

٭ Committing treachery in other person’s wealth.

The aforementioned Ayah encompasses all the activities mentioned above. (Tafseer Baghawi, part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah 188, vol. 1, pp. 114)

May Allah Almighty enable us to observe good conduct with Muslims and refrain from oppressing or being unjust to them.

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed Awliya even benefit after their demise

Dear Islamic sisters! When the chosen people of Allah Almighty attain His pleasure through acting upon His commandments, then Allah Almighty blesses them with incomparable elevation and excellence through His Divine grace. Moreover, these sacred personalities possess the incomparable power of removing people’s difficulties even after their demise. The powers that are bestowed upon the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی in this world, they not only remain intact after their demise too but eventually increase further. Because the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are alive in their shrines due to the bestowments of Allah Almighty.

Sayyiduna Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Bodies of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, Awliya and martyrs رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی neither deform nor decay in the graves because Allah Almighty Has kept their bodies safe from the defect that is formed due to the rotting of flesh. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Taht-al-Ayah 41, vol. 3, pp. 439)

Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Whomever help is sought from during their lifetime, it can also be sought after their demise too. Similarly, it is the saying of the righteous predecessors: There are four such noble personalities who use their authority in matters in the same way as they did in their lifetime. (After their apparent demise), they رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی use their authority to a lot greater degree (than they did in their lifetime). (1) Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, (2) Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and two other apart from them (i.e. (3) Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Aqeel Munjibi and (4) Sayyiduna Shaykh Haya Bin Qays Harraani رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی). (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 124; Lam’aat-ut-Tanqeeh, vol. 4, pp. 215, Taht-al-Bab: 8)

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated

with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with teachers and students of (Women) colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progression!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding gratitude

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding gratitude. First, listen to 2 sayings of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ Allah Almighty likes the fact that person pays gratitude to Him upon every morsel and sip. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1122, Hadees 6932)

٭ You should keep your tongues moist with Zikr and hearts with gratitude. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 419, Hadees. 590)

٭ Paying gratitude is a worship of the highest ranks. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ It is Wajib [obligatory] to pay gratitude upon the blessings of Allah Almighty. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 2, surah Baqarah, Taht-al-Ayah 172)

٭ Being able to pay gratitude is a great blessing. (Shukr kay Fazaail pp. 12)

٭ Gratitude safeguards blessings. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Paying gratitude is the habit of the chosen people of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Gratitude is leaving the disobedience of Allah Almighty. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 12)

٭ Person remains protected from torment when he pays gratitude to Allah Almighty upon receiving a blessing. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 406)

٭ Worship remains incomplete without gratitude. (Baydawi, vol. 1, pp. 449)

٭ Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Waasiti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated: Love of Allah Almighty develops in the heart by remembering His blessings. (Tareekh-e-Madinah, vol. 36, pp. 334, Hadees 4133)

٭ Sayyiduna Umar Bin Abdul Aziz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Safeguard the blessings of Allah Almighty by paying gratitude over them. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 374, Hadees 7455)

٭ Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Gratitude of heart is that one intends to do goodness and act of piety with a blessing.

٭ Gratitude of tongue is that Allah Almighty is glorified over a certain blessing.

٭ Gratitude of the remaining body parts is that the blessings of Allah Almighty should be spent in the worship of Allah Almighty; and protect them from being spent in the disobedience of Allah Almighty.

٭ Gratitude of eyes is that if one sees a fault of a Muslim, then he conceals it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 103)

