اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

A’la Hadrat’s Services to Knowledge

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly your names along with your identity are presented to me. Therefore, recite excellent Salat upon me (i.e., with most beautiful words).

(Musannaf ‘Abdur Razzaq, vol. 2, pp. 140, Hadees 3116)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, it is not possible to mention all of the attributes with which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Therefore, today we will only listen to one of his very good habits, i.e. his services to Islamic knowledge. We will be privileged to listen as to how Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life rendering services to Islamic knowledge. Let’s, first of all, listen to his short biography for receiving blessings.

Introduction to A’la Hadrat

A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in Bareilly on Saturday, 10 th of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram, 1272 AH (i.e. 14 th June 1856), at the time of Zuhr Salah.

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 58)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه belonged to a Pathan family. He followed the Hanafi school of thought and Qaadiri spiritual order. His father’s name is Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and grandfather’s name is Maulana Raza ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Faazil Baraylvi ‘Ulama-e-Hejaz ki Nazar mayn, pp. 67)

His birth name is ‘Muhammad’. His respectable mother used to call him ‘Amman Miyan’. His respectable father and other relatives named him ‘Ahmad Miyan’ and his grandfather named him ‘Ahmad Raza’. His historical name is ‘Al-Mukhtar’. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to write ‘Abdul Mustafa’ before his name. (Tajalliyat Imam Ahmad Raza, pp. 21) Mentioning this name [i.e. ‘Abdul Mustafa] in his world famous Na’at collection ‘ Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish ’, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

خَوف نہ رکھ رضاؔ ذرا تُو تو ہے عَبدِ مُصطَفٰے

تیرے لئے اَمان ہے تیرے لئے اَمان ہے

Translation: Do not fear O Raza! You are ‘Abd-e-Mustafa

You will remain safe, you will remain safe!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

An amazing enthusiasm for serving Islam

Allamah Maulana Badruddin Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt the necessity for a correct and easy [Urdu] translation of the Holy Quran. So mentioning its necessity, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه politely requested A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to do the translation and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also promised [to do it]. However, because of being occupied with other religious work, the translation work kept on delaying.

At last, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘I can’t spare time separately for the translation. Therefore, you may come here [daily for translation] in the night before sleeping or in the afternoon, during Qayloolah (i.e. having some rest in the midday).’ So Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would visit A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would dictate the translation of blessed Ayahs from memory and Maulana Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would write it. Thereafter, when Maulana Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and other Islamic scholars present over there would compare the translation done by Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with the books of Tafseer, they would become surprised seeing that the translation dictated straight away by Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would be in absolute conformity with the authentic Tafaseer.

(Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 475)

احمد رضا کا تازہ گُلستاں ہے آج بھی

خورشیدِ علم ان کا درخشاں ہے آج بھی

کس طرح اتنے عِلم کے دریا بہا دئیے

عُلَمائے حق کی عقل تو حیراں ہے آج بھی

بھر دی دلوں میں اُلفت و عظمت رسول کی

جو مخزنِ حلاوتِ ایماں ہے آج بھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you realise! Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such enormous enthusiasm for serving Islam that despite already having a busy schedule, being a well-wisher of the Muslim Ummah and to spread Islamic knowledge, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه dictated a great and excellent translation of the Holy Quran, named ‘ Kanz-ul-Iman ’. The Islamic scholars found his translation to be in absolute conformity with Shari’ah. Let’s now listen to some distinctive characteristics of Kanz-ul-Iman, translation of the Holy Quran done by Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Distinctive Characteristics of Kanz-ul-Iman

Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is such a great translator of the subcontinent who has translated the Holy Quran in such a way that his translation contains the true essence of the Quranic teachings. Surprisingly, the translation is literal as well as idiomatic at the same time, and this is one of the outstanding characteristics of his translation.

While dictating the translation, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has effectively ensured that the translation is in conformity with the literal meanings of the words and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه chose that meaning amongst various meanings of the words, that maintains the connection between the previous and the next Ayah.

This translation reveals the Quranic facts and those hidden secrets of knowledge and Ma’arif, which are generally not clear in other translations.

One dominant characteristic of the translation done by Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is that he has effectively ensured that the respect, dignity, honour and sanctity of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are maintained wherever these blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are mentioned in the Glorious Quran. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 476)

The translation ‘ Kanz-ul-Iman ’ is a treasure of knowledge and wisdom and strengthens the reader’s faith.

It also contains a summary of blessed Ahadees, sayings and practises of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم, sayings of Tabi’een and Tab’-e-Tabi’een and the authentic Tafaseer written by the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

§ Indeed it is one of the best translations of the Holy Quran in the world, that has not been written while sitting in a library, or taking help from any other translation, or after referring to the books of Tafaseer, Ahadees and dictionaries; rather, it has been dictated from memory.

(Mahnamah Ma’arif-e-Raza, pp. 87; Sep to Nov, 2008)

خدمت قرآنِ پاک کی وہ لاجواب کی راضی رضا سے صاحبِ قرآں ہے آج بھی

احمد رضا کا تازہ گُلستاں ہے آج بھی خورشیدِ علم ان کا درخشاں ہے آج بھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed, Quran is a complete code of life and provides all the peaceful Muslims around the globe with detailed Divine Guidance. To understand the correct meaning and context of this Holy Book, its easy translation is very essential.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Amongst all the available Urdu translations of the Holy Quran, the best Urdu translation is the ‘ Translation of Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman ’. Therefore, we should spare some time from our busy schedule and make it our routine to recite the Holy Quran daily. For reciting the Holy Quran daily along with reading its translation and Tafseer [commentary], Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated this Madani In’aam no. 21 of Islamic brothers: ‘Today, did you recite or listen to at least three Ayah s of the Holy Quran from Kanz-ul-Iman (with their translation and commentary)?’

If we act upon this Madani In’aam daily, we will keep on receiving goodness and blessings at our homes by virtue of the recitation of the Holy Quran. Study the remarkable Tafseer [i.e. Quranic exegesis] namely ‘Siraat-ul-Jinaan’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. In this Tafseer, efforts have been made to convey the vast and precious treasure of Islamic knowledge to the Muslims.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beginning of writing Fatawa and Introduction to ‘Fatawa Razawiyyah’

Dear Islamic brothers! With his tireless efforts, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه served Islam so well by propagating the Islamic knowledge that he is still very much renowned [as a great Islamic scholar]. One of his best and outstanding achievements in propagating Islamic knowledge is Fatwa writing.

From his father, Ra`ees-ul-Mutakallimeen, Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed acquiring knowledge of all the subjects [of ‘Aalim course] generally studied in his era at the age of only 13 years, 10 months and 4 days, and received a certificate of completion of his education. On the same day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had written his first Fatwa in response to a question. Seeing that he had written the Fatwa correctly, his father handed over the responsibility to him for giving Fatwa and since then, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept on writing Fatawa till his demise. This implies that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had written millions of Fatawa from 1286 Hijri to 1340 Hijri. But alas! All of them could not be preserved. Those preserved are mentioned in Fatawa Razawiyyah . Every Fatwa contains a number of evidences and proofs.

There are 30 volumes of Fatawa Razawiyyah . It is perhaps the most voluminous Fatawa collection in the world in Urdu language. It approximately contains 22,000 pages, answers to 6847 questions and 206 booklets whereas thousands of other rulings have been mentioned in the answers to these questions. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such an excellent command of more than 55 subjects that he has written hundreds of books on dozens of topics of different branches of knowledge. Every book depicts his glorious status of knowledge, expertise in Fiqh and research skills. For people seeking the knowledge of Fiqh, understanding especially of Fatawa Razawiyyah is very essential. (A’la Hadrat ki Infiradi Koshish, pp. 2-3; slightly amended)

Dear Islamic brothers! By observing the quantity of the Fatawa of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, one can perfectly understand his high level of proficiency in writing Fatawa. This is the very reason that not only the common people but even the great ‘Ulama and Muftis refer to the Fatawa of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for answering critical questions or writing research based answers.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Based on the teachings of Quran and Hadees, Ijma’ and the rulings extracted by Fuqaha, Fatawa Razawiyyah is such a great collection of answers to every type of questions which will illuminate the hearts and intellects of people till the world exits. Moreover, by virtue of Fatawa Razawiyyah, the great status of A’la Hadrat will keep on elevating رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in his blessed shrine, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

مسلکِ حق کی ضمانت ہے ترا نام رضا شانِ تحقیق ادا کر گیا خامہ تیرا

فاضل ایسا کہ دیا ربّ نے تجھے فضلِ کبیر عالِم ایسا کہ ہر عالَم ہوا شیدا تیرا

ہر ورق تیرا شریعت کی دلیلِ روشن ایک قانونِ مکمل ہے فتاوٰی تیرا

تری تحریر پہ اَنگُشت بَدَنداں تھا عرب تیری تقریر تھی کہ قادری تیغا تیرا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Distinctive characteristics of Fatawa Razawiyyah

Dear Islamic brothers! To understand the Fiqhi status of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, let’s now listen to some of the distinctive characteristics of ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’ which contains incomparable Fatawa of Fiqhi matters:

Fatawa Razawiyyah contains vast knowledge of the books of Hadees and Fiqh.

Those references have also been mentioned at various places which are hard to find anywhere else.

Efforts have been made to provide solution to the modern issues in the light of Quran and Hadees.

It contains rigorous research work on the subjects of Mathematics, Tawqeet [i.e. timings] as well as on Meeraas [i.e. inheritance].

It also contains rulings and details of other [Fiqhi] schools of thought.

§ Every answer has been written in accordance with the teachings of Quran and Sunnah.

§ Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has strongly rejected the Bid’aat [i.e. unlawful innovations in religion] and Munkiraat.

§ Moreover, its major distinctive characteristic is that even the great Muftis of the present era refer to Fatawa Razawiyyah off and on in the matters of Fiqh. Many honourable Muftis seek guidance especially from Fatawa Razawiyyah for writing Fatawa and اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will keep on referring to it in the future as well. (Aa`eenah Razawiyyat, part 2, pp. 228)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is one of those great Islamic scholars who had acquired knowledge of various subjects and fields willingly and enthusiastically to propagate the religion, Islam. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه imparted this knowledge to countless students of Deen with absolute devotion. Indeed, this was his open saintly miracle because if we look at his daily routine, we will come to know that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would spend most of his time in writing books and other Islamic literature, as Malik-ul-‘Ulama ‘Allamah Mufti Zafaruddin Bihari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain busy in writing Islamic literature most of the time. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 98)

Usually, the Islamic scholars begin authoring the books after completing their course of study whereas A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had started authoring the books even while he was a student. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 3, pp. 143-144)

This is proved by the fact that merely at the age of eight, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had not only studied ‘ Hidayat-un-Nahw ’ – the famous book of Nahw that is included in the course books of ‘Aalim course – but even wrote its commentary in Arabic language. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 86)

اگلوں نے بھی لکھا ہے بہت علمِ دین پر

جو کچھ ہے اس صدی میں وہ تنہا رضا کا ہے

احمد رضا کا تازہ گلستاں ہے آج بھی

خورشیدِ علم ان کا درخشاں ہے آج بھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Number of books authored by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Dear Islamic brothers! In authoring the books, A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was second to none. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also a great researcher and author. His research methodology was better even than the research methodology employed in the present era. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned such ‘Aqlee [i.e. logical] and Manqool [i.e. those mentioned in Quran, Hadees, etc.] proofs in his remarkable writings, booklets and books that the reader does not remain confused, rather he gets satisfied.

The number of books and commentaries [i.e. Shuruhaat and Hawashee] authored by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is approximately one thousand. Besides the books and commentaries, there are many Maqalat, Maktubaat [i.e. writings], Malfuzaat [i.e. sayings], etc. as well whose quantity could not be exactly recorded. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 565-566)

عِلم کا چشمہ ہوا ہے مَوجزَن تحریر میں جب قَلم تُو نے اُٹھایا اے اِمام احمد رضا

تُو نے باطل کو مٹا کر دِین کو بخشی جِلا سُنّتوں کو پھر جِلایا اے اِمام احمد رضا

اے اِمامِ اہلسنّت نائبِ شاہِ اُمم کیجئے ہم پر بھی سایہ اے اِمام احمد رضا

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Did you realise! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made such enormous effort to acquire high level of proficiency in various subjects and fields and then, following the footsteps of the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, he imparted this knowledge to other people. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه so well served Islam that even

today; both the Arabs and non-Arabs praise him for his high status of knowledge and for his services to Islam. Indeed this status could only be achieved by virtue of special favours and blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon him, by virtue of special blessing of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and by virtue of sacrificing everything to propagate the Islamic knowledge; because looking at his daily routine surprises us that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would carry out so many routine tasks perfectly in such a short time. Let’s now listen to the routine tasks carried out by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always stay at home for studying and authoring books and for reciting Awraad-o-Wazaaif. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to Masjid only for five daily Salahs. In the winter season, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would stay in Masjid from ‘Asr till Maghrib Salah. All people would also remain in the Masjid with the intention of I’tikaf and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would teach and instruct [the people] over there. Having offered Maghrib Salah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would return to his home. It was his daily routine. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 107)

جو علم کا خزینہ کتابوں میں ہے تیری ناموسِ مصطفے کا وہ نگراں ہے آج بھی

احمد رضا کا تازہ گلستاں ہے آج بھی خورشیدِ علم ان کا درخشاں ہے آج بھی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat and teaching

Dear Islamic brothers! In addition to writing books, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also started teaching after completing his studies and rendered services to Islamic knowledge. After hearing about him, about his expertise in various subjects and fields, and about his attributes, students from the Islamic centres of other cities would visit him to gain knowledge and to receive blessings from him. In this way, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gradually gained fame in the field of teaching.

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you realise! The fortunate Muslim, who spreads the Islamic teachings for the glory of Islam with good intentions and with the passion for serving Islamic knowledge, who tries to call people towards

righteousness with the passion for striving to reform his own self and people of the entire world ; then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses him with such rank and status that people acknowledge his services to Islam and praise him. Therefore, with the passage of time, people of other cities also received the blessings of his services to Islamic knowledge and his teaching methodology.

‘Allamah Mufti Muhammad Zafaruddin Bihari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: In the duration of 54 years between 1286 Hijri and 1340 Hijri, not only hundreds but many thousands of students were blessed with the knowledge he possessed. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not maintain any register in which the names of the students could be recorded at the time of enrolment. If we try to find out the number of those people who were blessed with his knowledge and blessings through the books he has authored, then perhaps the number may reach thousands, or rather hundreds of thousands. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 3, pp. 145-146)

Perhaps, the biggest reason behind it is that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had started learning and teaching at an extremely young age. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: بِحَمْدِہِ تَعَالٰی I had completed ‘Aalim course at the age of 13 years, 10 months and 4 days. Afterwards, I taught the students for a few years.

(Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 92)

عالِم ہی صرف کہنا کب شان ہے تیری

جبکہ ہزاروں تُو نے عالِم بنا دئیے ہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls for study

Dear Islamic brothers! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such thirst and passion for gaining Islamic knowledge, for serving it and for its study that once a question was asked: ‘Which books of blessed Hadees have you read?’ [In reply to this question], A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned the names of almost 30 books of blessed Ahadees and then said, ‘I have studied more than 50 books of Hadees while acquiring knowledge, teaching and study.’ (Izhar-ul-Haq, pp. 40)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We also love A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and this love demands that the way he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه served Islam, imparted knowledge to those who had thirst for knowledge and the way he had achieved great success in the field of knowledge because of his phenomenal abilities, similarly, following in his footsteps, we should develop love and passion for gaining Islamic knowledge, for acting upon the knowledge, for conveying it to others and for studying Islamic books. It is because knowledge is such a great quality which distinguishes a person from other creations and it enlivens him physically as well as spiritually.

Knowledge is a basic need of a person. By virtue of the blessings of gaining knowledge for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, His fear can be attained. Seeking knowledge is a worship; talking about knowledge is Tasbih; imparting knowledge is Sadaqah; spending for knowledge is a virtuous deed; knowledge enables a person to distinguish between Halal and Haraam; knowledge is a sign of the path of those who will be in Jannah; knowledge brings about peace at the time of nervousness and fear; knowledge is the best companion during a journey; knowledge is a guide in poverty and prosperity. By virtue of knowledge, a person attains the status of a Wali [i.e. saint] and achieves a high rank in this world and the Hereafter. Study of Islamic books is one of the best means of gaining knowledge. Study not only brings about advancement in a person’s life, but it also plays a vital role in propagating the religion and developing a better nation and society. Study is the key to [enhancing] the abilities and the best means of developing the skills.

(Mutala’ah, Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay? pp. 13)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In addition to this, taking up study has many advantages and benefits which are useful for a person in both, this world and the Hereafter. For persuasion, let’s listen to some Madani pearls about study:

§ Reading of Islamic books refreshes Iman [i.e. faith] and strengthens [the belief of] Tawheed and Risalat further in the heart of a person. Similarly, one can strengthen his Iman by study.

§ The first and foremost purpose of study is to gain knowledge, because where study is a source that helps a person to progress a lot, it also becomes the source of gaining knowledge.

§ Study causes a person to ponder over the universe which, sometimes, brings massive success for him.

§ In the Holy Quran, great emphasis has been laid on pondering over the universe.

§ Study increases intellect and sense of understanding. A sensible person knows when, where and what to speak. That’s why he always succeeds and attains respect. On the other hand, a person who lacks understanding, remains deprived of these things; therefore, he often faces failure and disgrace.

§ Study brings about religious and worldly progress of a person. This is the most important advantage of study.

§ Study enhances one’s character, improves eyesight and refreshes brain and mind. The way a good friend provides us with interesting news and surprising information, similarly, a book also plays a role like a good companion.

§ Study gives information about the conditions of different nations and about their culture and custom. Through these pieces of news one compares h is and their civilizations and then finds out the reason for superiority. (Mutala’ah, Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay, pp. 16-20)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you realise! Study has many advantages. Therefore, instead of wasting our time in useless activities, we should also get into the habit of studying daily; or rather we should always have with us a book or booklet published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, so that we can study it and gain some Islamic knowledge wherever we find free time. Travelling with the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami is a source of serving Islam and gaining Islamic knowledge.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilahs, a person is not only privileged to act upon Faraaid and Wajibat, Sunan and Mustahabbat, but he also gets a great treasure of knowledge in the form of Du’as, recited at the time of Wudu and Ghusl, in Salah and Siyam and at different other times. One of the advantages which a person will get by travelling with Madani Qafilahs every month is that he will be blessed with the opportunity to act upon one of the 12 Madani activities and to travel in the way of Allah. Furthermore, the feet which become dusty by travelling in the way of Allah, will not be touched by the fire of Hell. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 5 pp. 396, Hadees 15935) Now let’s listen to a Madani parable of Madani Qafilah.

Blessed sight of A’la Hadrat in a dream

It is the summary of what an Islamic brother living in Khanewal, [a city of Punjab, Pakistan], has stated: The responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami had been persuading me to travel with a Madani Qafilah by making individual efforts for a long time, but I always ignored them. At last, their individual efforts paid off and I became the traveller of Madani Qafilah. Our Madani Qafilah was staying in a Masjid near a shrine of a pious saint in a village. On the last day of the Madani Qafilah, while I was sitting near the blessed shrine and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, I fell asleep. In my dream, I saw that a pious saint having luminous face was sitting; a few more luminous-faced pious saints were sitting behind him. I asked one of them: ‘Who is this pious saint?’ He replied: ‘He is the Imam of Sunnis, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .’

In this way, by virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilah, I was privileged to behold A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in my dream. I have also associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami by virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilah.

اعلٰی حضرت سے ہمیں تو پیار ہے

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ اپنا بیڑا پار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Service to Islam through contemporary branches of knowledge

Dear Islamic brothers! In worldly knowledge and skills, science and mathematics are seen with great respect. At present, the experts of these branches of knowledge consider themselves to be the competent and most important members of the society, whereas our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would gain and impart the knowledge of these branches to propagate Islam, seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Although the modern facilities available today were not available at that time, history shows that Muslims achieved great success in the fields of science and mathematics.

One of those great personages is A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who has rendered great Islamic services in the field of science and mathematics, a century ago. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه studied science in depth. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would see and examine science in the light of Islam. If its theories were in accordance with Islam, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would accept them, but if they were contrary to Islamic principles, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would reject them and would make the Islamic point of view clear on that topic. Let’s listen to some good qualities of A’la Hadrat’s life, about the knowledge of science and mathematics.

Mentioned the reality of science

Once, a famous scientist, professor Haakim ‘Ali, the principal of Islamiyah College, Lahore invited A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه through a letter, to accept modern scientific theories and explained their benefits as well, but A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote the following reply to the letter: Science will not be a Muslim in the way that Islamic rulings should be changed in accordance with it, because by doing this م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ it will become compulsory to make Islam in accordance with science. Therefore, in those Islamic rulings which contradict Science, Islam will be followed and such theories will be rejected. Besides, Islamic rulings should be proved from the scientific discoveries and facts as, by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it should not be difficult for a wise scientist like you. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 562-563)

Talking about expertise and competence of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the field of science, Ustaz-ul-‘Ulama Maulana Mufti Taqaddus ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw in my academic life that whenever Maulvi Haakim ‘Ali Sahib would

come to the city “Bareilly”, he and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would make experiments using different scientific instruments by hanging them in a well in order to conclude whether the earth moves or is stationary. They would also discuss this matter with detailed arguments. Though I was not able to understand all this discussion and arguments at that time, I would still observe all this closely. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 563)

Likewise, the noble services rendered by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the field of Fiqh [i.e. Islamic Jurisprudence] through the ‘Mathematical Sciences’, possess a unique place in the history of Islam. For example, his expertise in determining the direction of Qiblah, determining the timings of sunrise, sunset and the times of Salah. Moreover, determining the Awzaan for Zakah and Fitrah as per Islamic Shari’ah, calculating the distances for a Shar’i traveller according to the units of measurements used in his era, etc. His unique research work in the field of Islamic Fiqh has brought about the revolution of knowledge. (Faizan A’la Hadrat, pp. 547)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The noble services rendered by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the field of Islamic knowledge are vast enough that one likes to listen to them continuously. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Dawat-e-Islami is advancing day by day. By virtue of the blessing of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, being an electronic preacher, Madani Channel which is a 100 per cent Islamic channel, is presenting the call towards righteousness in every home. The life history of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is mentioned in many programs of Madani Channel. Dawat-e-Islami is working approximately in 103 departments to serve Islam in the light of the teachings of Ala Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . One of these departments is Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for the Shar’i guidance of Muslim Ummah, Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat has been established in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi), Zamzam Nagar (Hyderabad, Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh), Sardarabad (Faisalabad), Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore), Rawalpindi and Gulzar-e-Taybah (Sargodha).

In addition to this, the Islamic scholars of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat tell the Islamic rulings in reply to the questions asked by the Muslims across the world on telephone, Whatsapp and internet. Questions can also be asked through internet using the following email address throughout the world: (darulifta@dawateislami.net). Furthermore, following contact numbers can be used from all over the world for seeking Shar’i guidance. Please note the numbers:

0300-0220113 - 0300-0220112

0300-0220115 - 0300-0220114

People can contact on these numbers from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm PKT [i.e. Pakistan Standard Time]. Friday is a holiday.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Multitasking at the same time

Dear Islamic brothers! The scholarly and meritorious services rendered by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه are clearly evident. After listening to those noble achievements, it will not be wrong to say that he was no less than a machine [he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to work hard constantly]. He was indulged in any time wasting habit at all, but rather he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain busy with scholarly activities. Once ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Haq Khayrabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه a question: What are your activities in Bareilly? A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Teaching, issuing Fatwa, writing books, etc.

(Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 206)

Moreover, sometimes it also happened that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would perform many tasks at the same time so that more and more people could attain the

blessings of Islamic knowledge and in this way, he could also render his noble service to Islamic knowledge.

The caliph of Ala Hadrat, Muhaddis-e-A’zam ‘Allamah Sayyid Muhammad Kachhochwi (کچھوچھوی) رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to distribute the questions amongst all the Muftis one by one and then all of them worked hard throughout the day to find out their answers. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then between the brief period of ‘Asr and Maghrib, listened to the questions from everyone and then the Fatawa prepared against the questions; all these different jobs used to be dealt at the same time he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to listen to everyone; The authors also used to show him their books at the same brief period of time; those who used to ask questions verbally were also allowed to ask anything and share anything.

So many voices, different subjects, and only one person paying attention to everyone, authentication and correction of the answers, approval of authors and correction of mistakes, satisfactory answers to verbally asked questions, etc. On such occasions, when even well-qualified and experienced Islamic scholars remain silent after being confused as to who they should hear and who they should not, but in the court of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه everyone is heard and everyone is rectified even he used to correct the literary mistakes if found. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 223)

حشر تک جاری رہے گا فیض مُرشِد آپ کا

فیض کا دریا بہایا اے امام احمد رضا

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the people who visit the blessed personages [the people whose hearts are enlightened with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] do not return empty handed. So, those who go astray are blessed with the blessing of the right path, those who are thirsty for knowledge are satisfied, the devotion of devotees of Rasool further increases and non-practicing people have privilege to perform good deeds when they visit them.

Therefore, we should associate ourselves with Dawat-e-Islami, especially with Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه so that we can have devotion to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, get the benefit of his teachings and develop the strong keenness and fervour for serving Islam. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is one of the true devotees and admirers of Imam of Ahl-e-Sunnat who are very much attached to the personality and the achievements of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . That’s why Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat is serving Islam in an extremely splendid manner as per the teachings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

It can be determined by his highly effective writings, Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs which are full of knowledge and wisdom and adorned with the translation of Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman, details of Fatawa Razawiyyah and tear-jerking couplets of Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish . Let’s now listen to the deep devotion of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in his own words.

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s devotion to A’la Hadrat

In his booklet ‘ Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah ’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I had been introduced to the personality of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in my childhood, then as I gain maturity, I developed love for A’la Hadrat in my heart. Thereafter I had a strong yearning to enter his Silsilah (chain of spiritual order), and by only one chain or means (i.e. through Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah) I became his Mureed [disciple] of A’la Hadrat. (Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah, pp. 2)

It was for this devotion and love that the first booklet that Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat wrote was about the life history of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, namely ‘ Biography of Imam Ahmad Raza ’ which was published on 25 th Safar-ul-Muzaffar (1393) on the occasion of ‘Yaum-e-Raza’.

Let’s now listen to a faith-refreshing parable of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s devotion to A’la Hadrat:

Very first time, when Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه reached the city (blessed Bareilly) of his spiritual guide, he remained barefoot as a mark of respect until he stayed there. He visited the blessed shrine of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with extreme respect and reverence. During the visit, someone informed him of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who had seen A’la Hadrat

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Upon knowing this fact, he and his both sons kissed the eyes of the saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

اعلٰی حضرت سے ہمیں تو پیار ہے

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ اپنا بیڑا پار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in today’s speech, we have heard about the scholarly services A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rendered for the noble cause of Islam in different ways. We have heard how A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه benefited Muslim Ummah through his different scholarly services to knowledge.

Through the remarkable and splendid translation of the Holy Quran, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه brought an eternal spiritual pleasure to the people.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has given such a priceless pearls of Islamic knowledge by which Muslim Ummah is still seeking guidance and the blessing of Kanz-ul-Iman will remain till the world exits.

Through the spiritual dedication of Dars and teaching, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه satisfied people’s thirst for knowledge.

Under the patronage and by the blessings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه many prominent scholars appeared with the rich Islamic knowledge.

Under the patronage and by the blessings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, many Khutaba have taken up the position of Khitabat.

By the blessing of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, many teachers performed the duties of teaching and eradicated the ignorance through Islamic knowledge.

§ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه resolved many issues and intricacies of people related to Islamic knowledge by the large number of Fatawa written by him, especially he has given Muslim Ummah a voluminous collection of Fatawa namely, ‘ Fatawa Razawiyyah ’ consisting of 30 volumes, almost 22,000 pages, 6847 answers to questions and 206 booklets.

§ Through the huge collection of books on different topics, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه pave the way for us to seek guidance.

§ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rendered his great services in the field of religious poetry as well. He wrote a number of remarkable Na’ats in Urdu, Arabic, Persian languages. The matchless Na’at collection written by A’la Hadrat is known as ‘ Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish ’. His religious poetry is greatly rich in the purity of language and fluency, and eloquence and art of composition. His poetical diction includes simile, metaphor, personification, alliteration, imagery, multiple rhyming words within a couplet, and much more which left many renowned poets astounded and they could not resist admiring and appreciating the marvellous religious poetry.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to gain Islamic knowledge, to act upon what we gain and to serve Muslim Ummah abundantly by the Islamic knowledge we gain for the sake of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! At the end, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners of sneezing

Two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the sneeze (of a person) and does not like the yawn (of a person). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

When one sneezes and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, the angels say ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ and if he says, ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ the angels say, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you’. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

Lower your head, cover your face as you sneeze, and sneeze in a low sound as it is foolish to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

One should say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ after sneezing. It is better to say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ ’ or ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ (it is stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan on page 3 with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Sunnat-e-Muakkadah to recite the Hamd of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after sneezing).

It is Wajib for the one who hears the sneezer, to say ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’ (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you) immediately in such an audible voice that the one who sneezed can hear it. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 119)

Upon hearing ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’, the person who sneezed should say ‘ يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَيُصۡلِحُ بَالَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

Whoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ after sneezing and passes his tongue over all his teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will be safe from dental diseases.

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

1. Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘Whosoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ upon sneezing, he will never suffer from pain in the molars or from an earache.’ (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499, Taht-al-Hadees 4739)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

