اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Protect Your Sight

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When Thursday arrives, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends angels who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They write the names of those who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday).’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 250, Hadees 2174)

جائیں نہ جب تک غُلام خُلد ہے سب پر حرام

مِلک تو ہے آپ کا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

Brief explanation: O the Owner of Jannah, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What a great elevated status you possess that nobody can enter Jannah before your Ummah. You are the owner of Jannah, then how can anybody enter it without your permission.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A unique Du’a for protecting from sins

Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of the famous blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی of his time. He used to spend most of his time in the Masjid worshipping his Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He had dedicated his youth in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Once he was coming out of the Masjid, suddenly his gaze fell on a young woman and his heart inclined towards her for a while but he immediately felt ashamed of this act and raised his hands for Du’a in the Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: “O my Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ! No doubt you have blessed me with eyes which are the great blessing but I have a fear that lest I might suffer punishment due to these eyes and lest these eyes become the means of my destruction. O my Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Deprive me of my sight.” The moment he completed his Du’a, he had lost his sight and became blind. So, after that, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to keep his nephew with him who would take him to the Masjid at Salah timings, and would help meeting his other needs. The Nephew of Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would leave him at Masjid and then he himself would play with children. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have any need, he would call him.

Once Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in the Masjid and he felt something was crawling on his body. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called his nephew but he was busy playing with the children and could not come to him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sensed the risk that something might hurt him. So, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Du’a again in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O my Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If I don’t get my sight back, lest it turns out to be a trouble and disgrace for me because I am not able to see anything and any dangerous pest may hurt me, on the other hand, I need

help of someone repeatedly for fulfilling my needs, it has put me into a trouble. O my Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Give me back my sight so that I get prevented from disgrace and dependence on others.’

Hadrat Sayyiduna Malik bin Anas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had not yet completed his Du’a, he regained his sight and now he himself, without anyone’s help, reached his home’. I have seen him in both states, in the state of blindness and then by the blessing of Du’a, he regain his sight and now, like past, he would go to Masjid himself and worship his Rabb عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp.165)

میں نیچی نگاہیں رکھوں کاش اکثر عطا کر دے شرم و حیا یاالٰہی

ہمیشہ کروں کاش پردے میں پردہ تُو پیکر حیا کا بنا یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that how great people our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were! If these blessed figures would see any benefit of Hereafter then they would not care for worldly loss but they would never bear any loss of Hereafter for the sake of any worldly benefit.

As it is learnt from the above-mentioned blessed parable that the chosen saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Hadrat Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did accept the loss of the vision of eyes but never liked to show disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ through these eyes. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to protect ourselves from unlawful gazing, to prevent each of our body part from committing sins and especially grant us privilege to observe Qufl-e-Madinah (Madani guard) of eyes.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

آقا کی حیا سے جھکی رہتی نظر اکثر

آنکھوں میں سرِحَشر نہ بھر جائے کہیں آگ

بولوں نہ فُضول اور رہیں نیچی نگاہیں

آنکھوں پہ مرے بھائی لگا قفلِ مدینہ

آنکھوں پہ مرے بھائی لگا قفلِ مدینہ

آنکھوں کا زَباں کا دے خدا قفلِ مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of gaze

Unfortunately as a person is fearless in speaking, he is also fearless in looking at others. He does not even realise that this is such type of activity which could be a means of reward or torment for him, for example: If someone looks at his mother with affection, he receives a reward equal to an accepted Hajj, and if he looks at non-mahram with lust, he becomes deserving of the torment of Hell because looking at non-mahram woman is not a human act, rather it is an act of Satan.

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Ma’sood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اَلْمَرْاَةُ عَوْرَةٌ فَاِذَا خَرَجَتْ اِسْتَشْرَفَهَا الشَّيْطَانُ ‘A woman is an ‘Awrat’ (i.e., something to be concealed). When she comes out, Satan peeps at her’. (Sunan-u-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 392, Hadees 1176)

Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Whoever doesn’t have an ability to close his eyes, cannot protect his private parts.’ (Ihya ‘Uloom-u-Deen, vol. 3, pp. 125)

دیدے ’’قفلِ مدینہ‘‘ آنکھوں کا واسطہ چار یار کا یاربّ

One can judge the importance of the protecting one’s gaze from this that the Glorious Quran clearly says:

قُلْ لِّلْمُؤْمِنِیْنَ یَغُضُّوْا مِنْ اَبْصَارِهِمْ وَ یَحْفَظُوْا فُرُوْجَهُمْؕ-ذٰلِكَ اَزْكٰى لَهُمْؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ خَبِیْرٌۢ بِمَا یَصْنَعُوْنَ(۳۰)

Command the Muslim men to keep their gaze low and to protect their private organs; that is much purer for them; indeed Allah is Aware of their deeds.

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah. 18, Surah An-Noor, Ayah 30)

On page 62 of ‘Mukhtasar Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publication department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is stated: Here in the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, people have been commanded to lower their gaze and it is compulsory for the bondman to act upon the command of his Lord otherwise he will be pronounced to be a disrespectful, he will be stopped and not be allowed to go in the court of his Lord, and as stated in the blessed verse: ‘ ذٰلِکَ اَزۡکٰی ’, ‘ That is much purer for them ’ i.e., it purifies their hearts and increases their virtues.

In this blessed saying, it has been informed that purification of heart, abundance of worship and goodness lie in keeping the gaze lowered. Because if you would not prevent your gaze and let it go un-controlled, it will look at meaningless things and if you get deprived of Divine Mercy, you will be destroyed. Because either you will see Haram (forbidden) things and resultantly indulge in sin; or will look at Mubah things and your heart will get engaged in them and this will cause you to have evil thoughts and satanic whispers; so after all, your heart will get engaged in these after being heedless of goodness. (Mukhtasar Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 62)

Remember! As Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded in the Glorious Quran to prevent unlawful gazing, likewise there are a number of blessed Hadith commanding the Muslim males to lower the gaze and refrain from seeing the things declared Haram by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

1- Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Avoid sitting in the ways.’ The blessed Companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly said: ‘There is no way out of it as these are our sitting places where we have talks.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘If you must sit there, then fulfil the rights of the way.’ The blessed companions said: ‘What are the rights of the way?’ Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Lowering the gazes, removing the harmful things, answering Salam, enjoining good and forbidding evil.’ (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 132, Hadees 2465)

2-The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘You must lower your gaze and protect your private parts, straighten your face otherwise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will disfigure your faces. (Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 208, Hadees 7840)

3-The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: After you have cast a gaze, do not cast the second gaze (i.e. if you suddenly cast an unintentional gaze at a woman then turn your eyes away instantly and do not look again) because the first gaze is permissible but the second is impermissible. (Abu Da’wood, vol. 2, pp. 358, Hadees 2149)

ہر گھڑی شرم و حیا سے بس رہے نیچی نظر پیکر شرم و حیا بن کر رہوں آقا مُدام

What does first gaze mean?

Dear Islamic brothers! Some unwise people describe the above-mentioned 3 rd blessed Hadees مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ like this: Since the first gaze is exempted. Therefore they don’t turn away their first gaze and continuously commit unlawful gazing. Whereas only that first gaze is exempted which falls on woman unintentionally and was removed immediately; even the first gaze made intentionally is impermissible and the act leading to Hell. Commenting on the blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘First gaze refers to that one which falls on any strange (non-mahram) woman unintentionally and the second gaze refers to the one that falls intentionally. If one continues watching in a first gaze then it will be regarded as the second gaze and it will be a sinful act.’

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 17)

Ruling about looking at (non-Mahram) woman

Answering a question regarding looking or not looking at the face of a non-Mahram woman, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has stated: ‘ Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil ’, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, publication of Dawat-e-Islami: He should not look at the face of a non-Mahram woman . However, if necessary he can, but with certain conditions. Explaining some situations for this, Sadr-us-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says: The rule for looking at a non-Mahram woman is that (if necessary) he may look at her face and palms because sometimes this is necessary. For example, if a witness who is to testify for or against her in a court-case is prevented from looking at her, then how can he testify for or against her? However, even here, there must be no possibility of lust whilst looking at her. These days, this is needed because (in markets, on public streets) many women walk around outside their homes, and to avoid seeing their faces at all is very difficult. Some scholars permit looking at their feet as well. (Questions & Answers about Islamic Veil pp. 21)

He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه further states: Although it is permissible to look at the face of a non-Mahram woman without any chance of lust, these are irreligious times. People of this era are not like the earlier generations, hence, in this era, looking at it (face) will be prevented; however it is permissible for a witness or judge to look in case of necessity.

(Questions & Answers about Islamic Veil pp. 21)

Remember! It is necessary for a Muslim to know who are those women from whom Islam has commanded to do Purdah and who are those from whom Islam allows not to do Purdah. So, let’s listen about it:

Purdah for men from whom?

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: There is Pardah between man and his aunts (except the sister of his father and that of mother), sister-in-law (both the sister of his wife as well as the wife of his brother). There is the

commandment of Pardah between called [1] brother and sister, called mother and son, and called father and daughter. There is Pardah (veil) even with the adopted child (when he becomes adolescent); however, there is no Pardah between the two having family relation established by virtue of suckling for example between Radai mother and son, and Radai brother and sister.

(Karbala ka Khooni Manzar, pp. 33)

زَبان اور آنکھوں کا قفلِ مدینہ عطا ہو پئے مصطفٰے یاالٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Regarding protecting the gaze, if we study the biography of Allah-loving people, we will obtain many Madani Pearls, for example these blessed personages used to follow Shar’i commandments strictly, they were embodiment of decency and modesty, they had mind-set of protecting eyes and all body parts, let alone talking to non-mahram, they would not even look at them. So, for motivation, let’s listen to 3 faith refreshing parables and obtain Madani pearls of advice. We make intention that we will protect our gaze, following the footsteps of these Allah-loving people and act upon the Shar’i commandments.

Always used to keep head and gaze lowered!

It is stated on page 529 of volume 1 Ihya-ul-Uloom, publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, Dawat-e-Islami: It is quoted, Sayyiduna Rabee’ bin Khaisam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would keep lowering his head and eyes always, even some people would consider him a blind person. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept visiting the home of Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Ma’sood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for 20 years. When the Kaneez (female slave) would see him coming, she would say to Sayyiduna Abdullah

Bin Ma’sood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: ‘Your blind friend has come.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would smile listening to her words. When Sayyiduna Rabee’ bin Khaisam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would knock at the door, Kaneez would find him lowering head and gaze. When Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Ma’sood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would see Sayyiduna Rabee’ bin Khaisam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he would recite this blessed Quranic Ayah:

وَ بَشِّرِ الْمُخْبِتِیْنَۙ(۳۴)

And give glad tidings (O Dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him) to the humble

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 34)

After reciting the blessed Quranic Ayah, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would say: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would see you, he would become happy.’ According to one narration, ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would like you.’ According to another narration, ‘Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smile seeing you.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 232)

Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes

Sayyiduna Hassan Bin Abi Sinaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Eid Salah, when he returned home, his wife asked: ‘How many women did you see today?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained silent, when she insisted very much, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘From leaving home to returning to you, I kept looking at the toes (of my feet).’ (Kitab-ul-Wara’, Mausoo’ah Ibn-e-Abi Dunya, vol. 1, pp. 205)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would close eyes due to nurses:

Several Islamic brothers have stated: When we would take Haji Zam Zam Raza Attari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to the hospital, he would often close his eyes and explain the reason like this: There are nurses etc., in the hospital, I fear that lest my gaze falls on them and I depart this life in the same state. Rukn-e-Shura Haji Abu Raza Muhammad Ali Attari has said: Once I was present in the hospital to inquire after him. I saw that he was closing his eyes over and over again. I thought perhaps he was feeling sleepy. I requested permission to

leave so that he could sleep. He said: Please be seated. I am not feeling sleepy, but rather I close my eyes due to the fear that my gaze might fall upon the nurses when they come in front of me. (Mahboob-e-Attar ki 122 Hikayaat, pp. 52)

بولوں نہ فضول اور رہیں نیچی نگاہیں آنکھوں کا زباں کا دے خدا قُفلِ مدینہ

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you heard how sensitive Allah-loving people were regarding protecting their gaze! Despite having power they would try their best to protect themselves from seeing non-Mahram women. They had firm belief that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is watching whether anyone else sees or not. Would that we could also get this Madani passion for protecting our gaze and become the one who observes Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes!

One of the best methods of attaining steadfastness in protecting eyes is that we should, from time to time, make our self-accountability. For example, observe Fikr-e-Madinah like this, addressing yourself: O bondman! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed a blessing like eyes upon you. With them you can see whatever you want, but just ponder, how did you use them? For example, did you use them for travelling, learning and teaching Islamic knowledge, reciting the Holy Quran, beholding Baytullah Sharif, Gumbad-e-Khazra, sacred places, visiting parents and righteous people or مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ for seeing strange (non-mahram) women, Amrads (minor beardless boys) lustfully, open Satr of someone, for watching films and dramas, seeing the pictures of non-Mahram women etc., printed in newspapers, seeing big advertising hoardings containing pictures of women, for reading someone’s letter or writings without his permission, watching indecent pictures or videos on computer or mobile phone, for peeping into someone’s home, or looking here and there unnecessarily. Regretfully, you were commanded to keep these eyes purified. You should have had the desire to see your Lord, His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, blessed Companions and Ahl-e-Bait Athaar رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, and Paradise. For this, it was necessary that your gaze should not have fallen on any Haraam and useless thing in the world. But alas! They no longer

remained pure. Today you take great pleasure in seeing Haraam things. But remember! The eyes which are filled with Haraam gaze will be filled with fire one day. Your eyes are so delicate that if a small mosquito or a sand particle falls in it, it gets the whole body restless. If you go to a closed room suddenly from the sun, your vision becomes so weak that you cannot see the thing lying near to you. You can then frighten yourself like this: Alas! If these eyes are tormented on the Judgment Day due to gazing unlawfully and seeing the things which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Haraam, what will become of me? Let’s now learn a lesson by listening to three narrations about the punishments for unlawful gazing.

1. Punishment for unlawful gazing:

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: A person, who was bleeding, came in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him: What has happened to you? He humbly replied: A woman passed by me. When I looked at her, my eyes constantly followed her. Suddenly a wall came in front of me and I got injured. That is why I am in this condition which you are observing. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does good to someone, He punishes him in this world. (Mu’jam-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 313, Raqm 17471)

2. Eyes will be filled with fire:

Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Whoever fills his eyes with Haraam gaze, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fill his eyes with fire on the Judgment Day. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 10)

3. Needle of fire

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Abdur Rahman Ibn Jauzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said, ‘To see the beauty of a woman is one of the poison-tipped arrows of Iblees. On the Judgment Day a needle of fire will be applied in the eyes of the one who does not protect his eyes from Non-Mahram.’ (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 171)

Just ponder! While using kohl, our hands tremble. If the needle of kohl even slightly touches the eye, we scream in pain. When a small needle of kohl

causes us so much pain, what will be our condition if due to unlawful gazing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is displeased with us and if a needle of fire is applied in our eyes? Unfortunately, nowadays some unwise people have become so much habitual of unlawful gazing that مَعَاذَ اللھ ثُمَّ مَعَاذَ اللھ they do not feel relaxed unless they see non-Mahram women. For this bad cause, they wander in the markets, shopping centres, entertainment places; in short, they wander wherever there is a gathering of non-purdah observing women. Not only do they wander there, but they also gaze unlawfully and destroy their world and the Hereafter. That is why we should ponder over: Have we forgotten our death? Have we got the guarantee of our forgiveness? Have we forgotten the torments inflicted on the previous Ummah? Don’t we learn a lesson by seeing funeral processions daily? Don’t we learn a lesson from the bedridden patients who are suffering terribly? Have we forgotten the narrow and dark grave? Shall we be able to answer the questions of Munker and Nakeer? Shall we not be accounted for our deeds on the Judgment Day?

O the heedless person! For Allah’s sake wake up to the fact!! Dear Islamic brothers! We should wake up to the fact before the angel of death ends our lives forever. So wake up! And also persuade other Islamic brothers to wake up to the fact!! Otherwise, remember, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid!!!

نہ سمجھو گے تو مٹ جاؤ گے اے مسلمانو! تمہاری داستاں تک بھی نہ ہوگی داستانو میں

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sada-e-Madinah—one of the 12 Madani activities:

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to get rid of the evil of non-observance of purdah, attain the Madani thought of observing Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes and other body parts, become the embodiment of modesty, teach the method of giving mind-set of observing purdah to your family members, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of them is ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. To wake-up Muslims for Fajr Salah

is called ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the booklet ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one of the 12 Madani activities has been made public by the Central Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami.

1- By the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ one can get privilege of Tahajjud Salah.

2-By the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ one can safeguard his Salah.

3-By the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ one can get privilege of offering Fajr Salah with Takbeer-e-Ula in the first row.

4-By the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ one can gain the Sawab of calling towards righteousness.

5-By the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ Dawat-e-Islami will earn name and fame further.

6-The one who calls ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ repeatedly supplicates for Muslims to become Haji and see the sacred Madinah. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills, these supplications will come true in his favour too.

7-The ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ is given while walking and as such, it is good for one’s health.

8-Calling ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Fajr Salah) is the Sunnah of the blessed Companions.

Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would go to the Masjid while waking-up people for Fajr Salah. (Tabaqaat-e-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263) For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of calling Sada-e-Madinah and rejoice.

Drinker became Muazzin

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to realize the aim of life, to achieve it, to develop the mindset of making preparations for death, and to have enthusiasm for the betterment of your afterlife as well as worldly life, always remain affiliated with the global and non-political Sunnah-inspiring Madani

environment of Dawat-e-Islami. It is Dawat-e-Islami that inspires even a wicked person to get reformed. A travel with a Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah in the company of the devotees of Rasool takes even the worst person of society to the heights of morality. Here is a summary of a wonderful parable narrated by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India. He has stated: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was a very big sinner. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, call people names, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also a heavy gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. Making individual efforts, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and I accepted his invitation. I travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah on the spot. In the company of the devotees of Rasool, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. By the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, a heavy gambler and drinker like me who did not use to offer any Salah not only started offering Salah but was also inspired to call Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to wake up Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my individual effort, 30 Islamic brothers have so far travelled with Madani Qafilah. I am now a Muazzin in a Masjid and am busy making efforts for Madani activities.

پڑوسی بنا مجھ کو جنت میں اُن کا خدائے محمد برائے مدینہ

لگا فجر میں بھائی گھر گھر پہ جا کر ذرا دل لگا کر صدائے مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Recognition of a perfect believer

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Unlawful gazing destroys a person’s world and the Hereafter both. A person commits more and more disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to it. Satan occupies his heart and mind all the time. He suffers from a strange feeling of restlessness. He is overcome with Nafsani (carnal) desires and thoughts. In order to satisfy his Nafs he commits deadly sins further such as fornication, etc., and destroys his youth himself. If the one who gazes unlawfully learns that someone is gazing unlawfully at his mother, sister, wife or daughter, his sense of honour gets provoked and he speaks rudely to him after being mad with fury. Sometimes he even starts fighting with him and sometimes he even kills him. And thus the enmity between both the families continues for many years and many lives are lost, many children are left orphans, many women become widows and many men spend their lives disgracefully in prison for many years. But when he himself gazes unlawfully or intends to commit fornication, why does he forget that time that the one who he is gazing at or with whom he intends to do wrong, is also someone’s mother, sister, wife or daughter? Let’s listen to an admonitory parable about it and get Madani pearls of admonition.

Repentance of a young man

It is stated on page 5 of the book, ‘Hamayn kiya ho gaya hay?’ published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Once blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ were being blessed with the sacred view of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the blessed court of Mustafa, a handsome young man came and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Grant me permission for fornication.’ All the blessed companions عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ present there were astonished at this fearlessness. They started rebuking him for not taking care of the manners of the blessed court of Nubuwwah. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked them not to say anything to the young man and said: ‘Let him come near to me.’ The young man came close without taking care of the sensitive situation. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم seated him beside himself and then presented him the call towards righteousness very politely and affectionately.

O young man! Tell me, if someone does something like this to your mother, will you like it? (Recalling the sense of honour) The young man humbly replied like this: No! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May I be sacrificed for you! I will definitely not like it. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, “If you do not like that someone does something like this to your mother, so other people do not like it either that someone does something like this to their mother.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then asked, “Do you like it for your daughter?’ He humbly replied: May I be sacrificed for you. My master! Not at all. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Other people do not like it for their daughters either.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then asked: ‘Do you like it for your sister?’ He humbly replied: May I be sacrificed for you! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Not at all. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Similarly, other people do not like it for their sisters either.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then asked him the same question about aunts (the sister of mother and sister of father), the young man humbly replied in the negative every time and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also made him understand: When you do not like that anyone does something indecent to them, so remember, the woman with whom you will do something like this, will also be someone’s mother, someone’s daughter, someone’s sister and someone’s aunt (the sister of his mother or sister of his father). As a result of the blessed individual effort of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the young man understood. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had further mercy on him by placing his blessed hand on his chest and requested in the blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive his sin; purify his heart and protect his private parts. So by virtue of the blessings of this Du’a, the young man abstained from the bad deed throughout his life. (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 285, Hadees 22274)

اللہ ہم کو فضل سے عقلِ سلیم دے

شرم و حیا تو بہر رسولِ کریم دے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم advised him in a very impressive and beautiful manner by saying that the way you do not like that someone commits something like this to these Mahram women of yours (i.e. with whom Nikah is Haraam), similarly, no one will like that anyone commits something like this to his Mahram women at all. When you do not like this for yourself, how can you like it for others? Because the person with whom you will commit this act will also be someone’s mother, someone’s sister, someone’s daughter, someone’s wife, someone’s aunt (sister of his mother or sister of his father).

The blessed style of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم impressed him so much that he not only felt ashamed of his fearlessness, but he also abstained from fornication throughout his life. Further, by virtue of the blessings of the Du’a of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he never even imagined to commit this act as long as he remained alive.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madani Tarbiyyat Centre for Islamic sisters:

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is continuously making efforts to promote modesty, stop the flood of non-observance of purdah and completely destroy the evil like immodesty. For this purpose, Dawat-e-Islami has established different departments . One of them is ‘Majlis Madani Tarbiyyat Gah for Islamic Sisters’. This Majlis offers different Madani courses of 12 days to Islamic sisters such as Special Islamic Sister Course, Faizan-e-Quran Course, Faizan-e-Namaz Course and Madani Courses. In these courses, Fiqh, Tajweed, beliefs, Sunnahs and manners, method of performing Madani activities amongst special (deaf and dumb) Islamic sisters, Faizan-e-Surah Noor (Tafseer), Sunnahs and manners, rulings on Salah and specific Surahs are taught and memorized. If we want to get rid of non-observance of purdah from our home, and all our household Islamic sisters observe Shar’i purdah, get associated with the Madani environment and start Madani activities then please contact the Zimmahdars

of Dawat-e-Islami of your area and have your Islamic sisters undergo the various Madani Courses being conducted at Madani Tarbiyyat Gah for Islamic Sisters. The more time you give, the more you will get the chance of gaining knowledge of Deen by the Blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable ‘Majlis Madani Tarbiyyat Gah for Islamic Sisters’ to keep on serving Islam with more devotion.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّ م

تم جانتے ہو کیا ہے یہ دعوتِ اسلامی فیضانِ مدینہ ہے فیضانِ مدینہ ہے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Evil acts of Valentine’s Day:

Dear Islamic brothers! At present, the deeds of Muslims are getting very bad. They are not following Islamic teachings. They feel very proud of adopting the habits and styles of non-Muslims, especially they spend too much money, waste time and do not feel ashamed in committing sins like fixing unlawful gaze, drinking wine and committing adultery in order to celebrate their special days. Such indecent acts are also openly carried out on the occasion of ‘Valentine’s Day’.

On this day, violating all Shar’i boundaries, people commit sins abundantly. Young boys and girls meet one another immodestly without any purdah. They commit openly or secretly every kind of act from exchanging presents to indecent and obscene acts within their reach. It is commonly heard and seen that the rush at gift shops and floral shops increases and the customers who buy these items are young boys and girls. On Valentine’s Day, the bookings of hotels increase compared to other days. مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ, the business of wine booms, whereas many acts of non-observance of purdah and immodesty are committed at beaches.

The countries in which non-Muslims are free from religious and ethical restrictions and in which the indecent acts are given every kind of legal protection also sometimes get worried due to the disturbance and agitation of this day. Sometimes little protests are also organized against this day. But it is extremely regretful that many Muslims who celebrate this day immodestly like non-Muslims, disobeying the Commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only increase sins in their Book of deeds, but they also pollute and spoil the purity of Muslim society by committing sins openly.

Unlawful gaze, non-observance of purdah, obscenity, meeting of non-mahram young boys and girls, laughter and jokes, exchanging gifts to strengthen this impermissible relation and the acts of adultery are the deeds which are committed intensely on this day. No Muslim may have any shadow of doubt about these satanic acts being impermissible and Haraam because these acts are proved to be Haraam by the blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran and the clear blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We, therefore, should avoid all such evil acts and perform the deeds which please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to act upon them!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard that

1-Unlawful gazing is a source of propagating fornication.

2-The Holy Quran gives Muslims Dars to protect their gaze.

3-We have been persuaded to abstain from unlawful gazing in many blessed Ahadees.

4-Protection of sight has the purity of the heart.

5-Unlawful gazing is a cause of displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

6-Allah-loving people are very sensitive in the matters of protecting their gaze.

7-The punishment for gazing unlawfully is sometimes given even in the world.

8-Unlawful gazing is a cause of disgracing a person in the world and the Hereafter.

9-One who gazes unlawfully has a very strange kind of un-restlessness.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect all the Muslims from the destruction of unlawful gazing and non-observance of purdah!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

Sunnahs and manners of adorning oneself

Dear Islamic brothers! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has a very graceful disposition and nature; and he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم greatly likes cleanliness and purity. In this connection, Sunnahs and manners of adorning are being stated so that our Islamic brothers and sisters come to know that which adornment is according to Sunnah and which adornment plunges into the dark pit of the impermissible fashion, crossing the boundary of Sunnah and leading to destruction in the world and Hereafter.

1- It is Haraam for women to braid their hair with any other human hair. It has been cursed in a blessed Hadees. In fact, even the woman, who fixes braid made of human hair into other woman’s hair, is also cursed. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 614-615)

2-If braid is made of woman’s own hair [that had been separated] and it is then attached to her hair, it is still impermissible. (Ibid)

3-It is permissible for Islamic sisters to fix the braid into their hair that is made of black threads or wool. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 614-615)

4-Piercing nose and ear of girls is permissible. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 598)

5-Some people even get the ears of boys pierced and make them wear earring etc., this is impermissible i.e., getting their ears pierced and making them wear jewellery etc., are both impermissible acts. (Ibid, pp. 598; summarized)

6-It is permissible for women to apply Mehndi [henna] to hands or feet. It is impermissible to apply henna to the hands and feet of younger children [boys]. There is no harm in applying henna to the hands and feet of children [girls]. (Ibid, pp. 599)

7-Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ narrated: A transgender person, who had coloured his hands and feet by using henna, was brought to the Noble Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم . He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم asked: What is the matter with this man? People humbly said: He imitates women. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم ordered: Banish him. Therefore, he was banished from Madinah Munawwarah to Naqee’. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 368, Hadees 4928)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1.The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

