اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Esteemed Character of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

مَا جَلَسَ قَوْمٌ مَجْلِسًا لَمْ يَذْكُرُوااللَّهَ فِيْهِ،

وَلَمْ يُصَلُّوْاعَلٰى نَبِيِّهِمْ اِلَّا كَانَ عَلَيْهِمْ تِرَةً فَاِنْ شَآءَ عَذَّبَهُمْ وَاِنْ شَآءَ غَفَرَ لَهُم

i.e. Those who sit in such a gathering in which they neither do Zikr of Allah Almighty nor recite Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then on

the Day of Judgement, they will regret over such gathering. Hence, if Allah Almighty wills, He will punish them and if He wills, He will forgive them. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 247, Hadees 3391)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For delivering Bayan, the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! 10 th Shawwal-ul-Mukarram is the blessed date of the birth of A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is that personality

who truly was an embodiment of worship, piety and righteousness, love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, humbleness and humility, and a practising scholar. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, we will be privileged to listen to some glimpses of the esteemed character of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his few faith-refreshing parables. First of all, let’s listen to an admonitory account.

A’la Hadrat’s aversion to arrogance

Khaleefa of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Sayyid Ayyub Ali Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘One person used to come in the court of A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl e Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also go to his place at times.

Once, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was at his (the other person’s) house. In the meanwhile, a poor Muslim of his neighbourhood sat on the old charpoy in his courtyard hesitatingly. The host started giving him dirty looks, to the extent that he left [host house] embarrassed with his head bowed down. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was severely hurt by the arrogant attitude of the host but did not say anything.

Few days later, the host came to the house of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him space to sit on his charpoy. As soon as he sat down, a barber named Kareem Bakhsh came to adjust his beard. He (barber) was worried regarding where to sit. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Brother Kareem Bakhsh! Why are you standing? Muslims are brothers with each other.’

After saying this, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه pointed him to sit next to the other guest (who was sat on A’la Hadrat’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه charpoy). So the barber sat down there. Thereafter, that person became furious like a hissing snake. He immediately got up and left. He then never came again.’ (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, 105; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! You have heard that what great Madani mindset A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed for Muslim brotherhood and equality amongst Muslims. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه practically showed us that no matter how rich and wealthy a Muslim may be, no matter how highly ranked person he is or belongs to an extremely noble family, he has no right at all to consider any Muslim to be inferior than him. He has no right to degrade any earner of Halal sustenance in front of people. In fact being a Muslim, treating everyone nicely, greeting visitors with a smile to hearten them, giving them respect and keeping equality amongst all Muslims are a part of the bright teachings of Islam.

But unfortunately! What ways have we adopted today leaving the teachings of Islam? We boast and consider ourselves to be superior and better than others, based upon our nation, language and caste. Whereas, in the sight of Allah Almighty, only he is more exalted and highly ranked who is more righteous and pious than others.

Allah Almighty says in part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, Ayah No. 13:

اِنَّ اَكْرَمَكُمْ عِنْدَ اللّٰهِ اَتْقٰىكُمْؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ عَلِیْمٌ خَبِیْرٌ(۱۳)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: Indeed the most honourable amongst you, according to Allah, is one who is most pious amongst you. Indeed Allah is All-Knowing, All-Aware.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! Today, our society is heading towards destruction rapidly. Whoever you look at boasts upon considering his tribe and nation to be superior and considers the people of the other caste to be inferior. Due to this, brotherhood is diminishing away. It is creating hatred and enmities among each other. At times, the consequences of these enmities are far more serious than one can imagine.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: “O people! Your Lord is one and your father is one. Listen! No ‘Arab has superiority over a non-Arab, and no non-Arab has superiority over an Arab, no white person has superiority over a black person and no black person has superiority over a white person. However, the one who is pious is superior than others. Undoubtedly, the most honoured amongst you in the court of Allah Almighty is the one who is the most pious amongst you all. (Shu’ab ul Iman, vol. 4, pp. 289, Hadees 5137)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! One remarkable achievement of Imam of Ahl e Sunnah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also that for the ease of Ummah and with the passion of serving the Ummah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Sadr-ush-Shari’ah write an amazing and excellent translation of the Glorious Quran, namely Kanz-ul-Iman, in order to spread knowledge. The scholars found it exactly according to Shar’iah.

Dear Islamic brothers! The Glorious Quran is indeed the complete book that tells us the way of living life according to the commandments of Allah Almighty. The Glorious Quran is a great source of attaining guidance for the Muslims of this world. However, its translation is also very important in order to understand the words of the Holy Quran and the commandments of Allah Almighty that are mentioned in it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Translation of Quran, namely Kanz ul Iman, is the best translation of the Holy Quran that currently exists in the Urdu language. Therefore, we shall take some time out of our busy lives and make a routine of reciting the Holy Quran.

In order to recite the Holy Quran with translation and commentary everyday, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah, Maulana, Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ mentions in Madani In’aam No. 21 (for Islamic brothers): “Today, did you recite or listen to at least three verses of the Holy Quran from Kanz-ul-Iman (with their translation and commentary)?”

If we act upon this Madani In’aam daily, then blessings will shower upon our houses due to the blessings of reciting the Holy Quran. By the virtue of reciting it with translation and commentary, one’s knowledge will increase. It will become easier to understand the Holy Quran. A great treasure of knowledge will be acquired. Also read the remarkable commentary of the Holy Quran, namely “Siraat-ul-Jinaan” published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. A great effort has been made to impart the treasure of knowledge to the Muslim Ummah through this commentary in a great way.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat and passion of sacrificing for Muslims

O devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! One proof of the exalted character of A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to give even his favourite and beloved things to others. In this relation, let’s listen to an interesting parable of his Seerah.

Gave away the umbrella to the needy

In the rainy weather, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would come to the Masjid at times while it would be raining. Haji Kifayatullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه realised this hardship of his and presented an umbrella as a gift to him. Haji Kifayatullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept that umbrella with him. Whenever A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go to the Masjid from his blessed house, then Haji Kifayatullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would cover him with the umbrella and escort him to the Masjid. Only few days had passed and a needy person asked for the umbrella. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه straight away took that umbrella from Haji Kifayatullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and gave it to the needy person. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 118)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! You have heard that what great level of sacrifice and generosity our A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed who would even give

the things of his own needs to others. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew the fact that Islam teaches us to sympathise with each other. It teaches us to look after each other. It teaches us to give gifts to each other through ‘Halal means in order to create affection in the hearts of each other. That is the reason why he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked after the other Muslim brother and happily prioritised him over himself. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Allah Almighty forgives the one who desires for something and then abandons his desire giving priority to the other person over himself.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 3, pp. 384, Hadees 9572)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Issuing of Fatwas and introduction of “Fatawa Razawiyyah”

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rendered such incomparable scholarly services to Islam through his hard work that his remarkable achievements are acclaimed all around even today. One such remarkable and illustrious scholarly achievement of his is the 30 volumes of “Fatawa Razawiyyah” . It consists of around 22,000 pages, answers to 6,847 questions and 206 booklets. In addition, thousands of rulings have also been mentioned in them.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Fatawa Razawiyyah is such a beautiful bouquet of every type of ruling and adorned with the Holy Quran, Hadees of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Ijma’ [consensus] and footnotes of the blessed jurists رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن that will keep refreshing people’s hearts and minds through its pleasant fragrance until the Day of Judgement. Moreover, it will keep becoming a means of his elevation of ranks in his blessed shrine. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat and the rights of people

O devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! You can also get a gist of the great character of A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from the fact that

along with the rights of Allah Almighty, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also very sensitive regarding the rights of people too. Because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that the matter of people’s rights is even more critical than the rights of Allah Almighty. Let’s listen to an interesting account regarding the sensitivity of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه regarding the rights of people and make an intention to act upon his Seerah.

Sought apology from a child

Once, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was sat in I’tikaf in the Masjid of Bareilly Shareef. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not eat food after Iftari. He would just eat a Paan (betel leaf). Moreover, in Sahari, a small bowl of Feerini (a sweet dish) and a bowl of chatni (mint sauce) would come for him. He would just consume that.

One day after the Iftar, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not get paan. It was his firm habit that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not ask for anything to eat. Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained silent. However, he did mind it a bit though. Around two hours after the Maghrib Salah, a child brought a Paan. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه tapped him and said: ‘you brought it so late?’ But later, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thought to himself that it was not his fault. It was the fault of the one who sent it late.

Therefore, after the Sahari, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called the same child who brought Paan the previous night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him: ‘Last night, I did a mistake by tapping you. It was the fault of the one who sent it late. Therefore, you do the same on my head.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took his cap off and kept insisting. People sat in I’tikaf were stunned to hear this. The child also started trembling out of anxiety.

He joined his hands together and humbly said: ‘Huzoor, I have forgiven you.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘You are Na-Baaligh (pre-adolescent). You do not have the right to forgive. So do the same to me.’ However, the child could not dare to do so. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called for his box and took out fistful of money. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه showed that money to him and said: ‘I will give you this money. Do the same to me.’ But the poor child kept saying: ‘Huzoor, I have forgiven.’ After all, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه held his hand and tapped his own head

several times with it. Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave him the money and let him go. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 107; summarised)

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! Did you see that A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه practically taught his admirers that no matter how high rank one is appointed at, if he ever hurts someone’s feelings, then he shall not feel embarrassed in apologising to him at all. Because the matter of the rights of people is very sensitive. This could lead a person into various sins which could harm his dunya as well as the afterlife. One could fall prey to the sins like:

٭ By not fulfilling people’s rights, a person can indulge into the major sin of hurting others’ feelings. Then this evil could lead to:

٭ Hurting feelings

٭ Being jealous

٭ Keeping enmity in the heart

٭ and various types of such sorts of sins

Due to falling prey to these sins, the door for backbiting, tale-telling, slandering, ill-assumptions and various other sins also opens. In order to please those whose rights have been violated, one could end up giving his virtuous deeds to them on the Day of Judgement. In case of having no virtuous deeds, one could end up having their sins into his Book of Deeds which could lead him from being deprived of the Paradise and being subject to a dreadful end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat’s passion of sympathy and looking after others

O devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! One aspect of the blessed Seerah of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also that when making Du’a, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would specially supplicate for his relatives, friends, devotees, disciples and other Muslims. Let’s see few examples of this:

Made a list to do Du’a

1. At the end of his Awraad-o-Wazaaif (invocations) after Fajr Salah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would take their names and make Du’a for them. People would desire to have their names included in that list too.

I supplicate for everyone

2. Sayyid Ayyub ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: One day, I was really worried. I requested for Du’a and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Du’a for me. Along with that, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to me and my brother Sayyid Qana’at Ali: I have added both your names in the list of Du’a too which has gradually become very long. I remember all those names (by heart). I supplicate for them all everyday by taking their names. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 180; summarised)

Would supplicate abundantly in a funeral

3. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a pain for every individual of Ahl-us-Sunnah. Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often attend funerals and supplicate for the deceased during and after funeral. The fortunate whose funeral Salah he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would lead, the people present there would feel as if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is interceding for the deceased’s forgiveness. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 552; Summarised)

Importance of Du’a for parents, teachers and all the Muslims

O devotees of Imam Ahmad Raza! Following the Seerah of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we shall also not only supplicate for ourselves, but also for our parents, teachers, relatives and all the Muslims.

Sayyiduna Abu Ash-Shaykh Asbahani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates from Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: We have been told, “the one who supplicates for the betterment of Muslim men and women, when he passes over their gatherings on the Day of Judgement, then a proclaimer will proclaim: He is the one who used to supplicate for your betterment in the world. Hence, they will supplicate for him and take him into Paradise by requesting in the court of Allah Almighty. (Fazaail Du’a, pp. 86; Summarised)

In relation to supplicating for Muslims, Allah Almighty says in the Glorious Quran:

وَ اسْتَغْفِرْ لِذَنْۢبِكَ وَ لِلْمُؤْمِنِیْنَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنٰتِؕ-

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: And O Beloved, seek forgiveness for the sins of your special and common believing men and women.

(Part 26, Surah Muhammad, Ayah 19)

It is stated in a Hadees: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard a person saying اَللّٰھُمَّ اغْفِرْلِیْ (i.e. O Allah Almighty! Forgive me). He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If you had included all the Muslims in your Du’a, then your Du’a would have been accepted. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 2, pp. 286)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! If you would also like to develop the passion of abstaining from sins and develop a mind-set for the Hereafter, attain steadfastness over righteous deeds, convey reward to your parents and make Du’as, then associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. Moreover, take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

Remember! Teaching or studying in “Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan” is also one of the daily Madani activities out of the 12 Madani activities. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one gets the privilege of reciting the Holy Quran correctly.

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is a great source of learning the important rulings of Salah, Wudu, Ghusl (ritual bath) etc.

٭ By the virtue of attending Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains a righteous company.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one gets the privilege of reciting and teaching the Holy Quran.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one acquires the treasure of Islamic knowledge.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the reward of sitting inside a Masjid.

In order to acquire detailed information regarding the daily Madani activity of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, read the booklet “Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan” published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami, especially Majlis Nigrans and members of Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, should definitely read this booklet. Along with being available on Maktaba-tul-Madinah, this booklet is also available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net .

By the virtue of reading this booklet, you will be able to know:

٭ The importance and need of the recitation of the Holy Quran

٭ Ahl-us-Suffah and the Holy Quran

٭ Importance of Tarbiyyah [edification]

٭ Shar’i ruling regarding reciting the Holy Quran correctly

٭ How did the student of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan become Mufti?

٭ Etiquette of Masjids

٭ Madani pearls from Madani Muzakarahs in relation to Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

٭ Selected Madani pearls from the Madani Mashwarahs of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

٭ Questions and answers based upon the precautions and useful information regarding Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, etc.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable based upon the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan.

Abandoned the ill-habit of unlawful gazing

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, Pakistan was used to watching films and dramas, listening to music and unlawful gazing before joining the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool. He was not steadfast upon offering Salah either.

While performing individual efforts upon him, one Islamic brother invited him to join Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan. He started studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the virtue of studying in Madrasa-tul- Madinah Baalighan, he became used to attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. He became the disciple of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, started offering Salah and delivering Dars in the Masjid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he abandoned the sins of watching films and dramas, listening to music and unlawful gazing etc. Currently, he is striving to perform individual efforts upon his household in order to make them punctual on offering Salah too.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s love for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is among those personalities who devotionally love A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He is among those who have deeply been impressed by the personality and scholastic achievements of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . That is the reason why Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is rendering extraordinary services to Islam in the light of the teachings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

That’s why his influential writings, Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs enriched with knowledge and wisdom, consist of the translation of the Holy Quran, Kanz-ul-Iman, extracts from Fatawa Razawiyyah and couplets full of deep emotions from Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is the Sadaqah of the same reverence and love that the first booklet that Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ wrote in his life was regarding the Seerah of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . It was named “Tazkira-e-Imam Ahmad Raza” [A brief biography of Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] and was published on 25 th Safar-ul-Muzaffar 1393 AH at the occasion of “Yaum-e-Raza”.

You can also get a gist of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s love for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه from the fact that he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ persuades everyone in the Madani Muzakarahs and all the scholars and Muftis, students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and common people who come to meet him, to stay on the teachings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Moreover, (he further states that) in case you don’t comprehend any specific teaching of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, then do not oppose it.

Once, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ said: May our wisdom be sacrificed upon the sayings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . We accept every saying of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Once, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ said to the students of the Mufti course at Jami’aat-ul-Madinah: A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who is a wali of Allah Almighty, true devotee of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and a unanimously agreed noble predecessor, it is absolutely vital to hold his reverence in the depth of your heart.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اَلْـَبرْکَةُ مَعَ اَکَابِرِکُمْ i.e. blessing lies with your pious elders. (Mustadrak, vol. 1, pp. 238, Hadees 218) If any of you start developing a slightest of the mind-set to oppose my master A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, then beware that مَعَاذَ اللّٰہ your downfall has started. Therefore, immediately be cautious and remove the word “oppose” from your dictionary. Let’s say, even if your intellect does not understand a certain

ruling mentioned by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Fatawa Razawiyyah, even then do not try to counter it with your intellect. On the other hand, consider it to be lack of your knowledge.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat and self-respect

Maulana Sayyid Ayyub ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: A person presented a dish of Badayuni sweets (to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه). A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked (him): ‘What is the reason of your visit?’ He said: ‘Just came to say Salaam to you.’ A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied to the Salaam and stayed quiet for a while. Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: ‘Is there any need?’ He replied: ‘No nothing. Huzoor I just came to inquire after your health.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Many thanks.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained quiet for quite a while and then addressed him saying: ‘Would you like to say something?’ He replied again in negative. After this, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent the sweets in the house.

After a little while, that person requested for a Ta’weez [amulet]. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘I asked you three times but you didn’t say anything. No worries. Please sit down.’ Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called for a Ta’weez from his maternal nephew Ali Ahmad Khan (who used to give Ta’wizat) and gave it to the person. In the meanwhile, upon the gesture of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Haji Kifayatullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه brought the dish of sweets back from the house and placed it in front of him.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned the sweets with the following words: ‘Take the dish back with you. Ta’weez over here is not sold for.’ He apologised quite a lot but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not accept it. Eventually, he took the sweets back. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 92; summarised)

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

O devotees of A’la Hadrat! From the aforementioned parable, we come to know that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to help people by rendering religious services only for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Moreover, he didn’t use to

accept any money or gift for it. Therefore, we shall also help and look after the needy Muslims for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. We shall be available for them and try to fulfil their needs as much as possible.

The Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool that is filled with the blessings of A’la Hadrat, embeds the passion of looking after and sympathising people in our hearts. Therefore, you too remain firmly associated with this Madani environment and adorn your grave and afterlife by joining Dawat-e-Islami in carrying out religious services.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is engaged in spreading the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in approximately 107 departments. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is also one of those departments. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, adult Islamic brothers are taught Naazirah Quran free of cost at different times at different locations (e.g. Masajid, offices, markets, shops, etc.). Moreover, they are also taught the basic rulings of Salah, Sunnahs and etiquette.

In Pakistan and abroad, total number of Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults at present are approximately 24,238 with around 142,650 students studying in them. Likewise, efforts for spreading the teachings of the Holy Quran among Islamic sisters are also ongoing. Students studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat [for female students] is approximately more than 63,000.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another bright aspect of the Seerah of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is that despite having many commitments, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would still offer Salah with Jama’at. To the extent that even in the state of illness, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not leave Jama’at. In this relation, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing aspect of A’la Hadrat’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه Seerah.

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and punctuality of Salah with Jama’at

The toe of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became sore. His surgeon operated it. After bandaging it, he humbly said: ‘Huzoor, if you don’t let it move, then the wound will get better in 10-12 days. Otherwise, it will take longer.’ The surgeon left after saying this.

Now how was it possible for A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to leave going to the Masjid and miss the Jama’at? When the time of Zuhr Salah approached, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Wudu. He couldn’t stand up, so he came to the main door while remaining sat down. People made him sit on a chair and took him to the Masjid. At that time, neighbouring people and his family members decided that after every Azan, four strong men out of them will come to him with a chair. Then they will make him sit on the chair directly from his bed and place the chair next to the arch of the Masjid.

This practice continued punctually for around a month. When the wound healed up and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was able to walk himself, then this practice came to an end. Let alone leaving Salah, no one would perhaps even remember A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه missing the Jama’at of Salah without a valid Shar’i reason. (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 136; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Teachings of A’la Hadrat and Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic brothers! Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is striving to act upon the 10 bright principles of A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us- Sunnah, Maulana, Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in order to spread knowledge and serve Islam. Let’s go through those 10 principles and briefly cover the services of Dawat-e-Islami for Deen in its light.

1. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Great Madaris should be opened having a proper education system.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the light of this purpose, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, has established 602 Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (for male and female students), 2980 Madaris-ul-Madinah (for male and female students) and 53 Dar-ul-Madinah (for male and female students) in Pakistan and abroad.

3. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Students should be paid stipend so that they may d evelop the passion of acquiring the knowledge of Deen somehow.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, not only provides the highest standards of education to the residential students, but also provides them with the boarding and lodging facilities. Moreover, they are also provided with free medical services under the department Tibbi ‘Ilaj [medical treatment] . Whereas, the students of Takhassus Fil Fiqh [i.e. course for having expertise in the rulings of Fiqh] and Takhassus Fil Hadees [i.e. course for having expertise in the science of Hadees] are in addition (to the above) provided with a decent monetary amount to cover their study expenses.

3. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Upon good performance, teachers should be awarded with heavy salaries so that they give their very best.

٭ Following the same principle, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, pays great monthly salaries to the teachers and Mu’allimat of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah. Along with this, they are also awarded with bonuses; and in case of them not taking their due holidays, then they are also presented with the leave encashment of those holidays after every six months. Not only that, there is also an annual increment in their salaries based on the performance they achieve out of being Mumtaz (Exceptional), Behtar (Better), or Munasib (Average). Moreover, their salaries and grades are also increased as per the decided duration. Other than that, teachers and Mu’allimat are also provided free medical facilities under the department Tibbi ‘Ilaj [medical treatment] .

4. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Capabilities of students should be judged. Whoever is found to be best in whichever field, he shall be financially

supported and made to excel in that very field. This way, some of them should be made into teachers, some into preachers and some into writers. Thereupon, there should be further division among the writers too. Some should have expertise in another field and some should have in another.

5. Saying of A’la Hadrat à Whoever among them gets ready [i.e. qualifies as a scholar] shall be paid salary and spread across the country so that he may spread Islam through his writings, speeches and Dars o Bayan.

٭ According to the aforementioned principle, if we talk about engaging students in rendering services according to their capabilities, then if any Madani Islamic brother who graduates from the Jami’a-tul-Madinah of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, and is interested and capable in teaching, then he is made to do Tadreesi course [teaching course] and then is appointed as a teacher in Jami’a-tul-Madinah.

The Madani Islamic brother who has the desire and capability of becoming a Mufti is made to acquire expertise in the field of Shar’i rulings and then is made to practice to write Fatawa. After being successful in all these stages, then he is given the opportunity to render his services in Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat.

Those Madani scholar Islamic brothers who are capable of writing books and doing research work are given an opportunity to render their services in the scholastic and research based department “Al-Madinah-tul-‘Ilmiyyah”.

Madani scholars are taught English, Arabic, Chinese and other languages and sent to the Jami’aat, Madaris, Masajid and Daar-us-Sunnah of different countries. Up to now, more than 100 Madani scholars are rendering their services abroad.

6. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Those who have the capability of writing books should be given financial incentives and should be made to write useful books and booklets supporting the religion and refuting the heretics [people with corrupt beliefs].

7. Saying of A’la Hadrat à The written booklets should be printed in a very pleasant font and distributed across the country free of cost.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is acting upon the both abovementioned Madani principles and has been rendering services in the field of writing from around last 11 years through the department Al-Madinah-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.

In this short span of time, around 500 books and booklets have been published with the collaboration of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Moreover, more than 320 books and booklets have been translated into different languages whereas dozens of books are in the process of being translated.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ under the Majlis “Taqseem-e-Rasaail” [distribution of booklets], monthly magazine “Faizan-e-Madinah”, books and booklets are distributed to a large number of devotees of Rasool. Moreover, Ulama of Ahl-us-Sunnah and other influential personalities are presented with books and booklets as a gift on monthly basis.

8. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Your representatives should be in every city. They should inform you of the type of book or preacher that is required there. You should keep sending your scholars, magazines and booklets to combat the enemies of Islam.

٭ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, is also following this principle to a great extent in order to serve Islam and propagate the knowledge of Islam. This aspect is covered through the Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilahs that travel in Pakistan and abroad in order to spread Sunnahs. Moreover, preachers and Arakeen-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami travelling in Pakistan and abroad to convey the call to righteousness every now and then also serves this very principle of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Different Majalis have also been established for Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters. Other than this, books and booklets on a large scale are

being sent across in Pakistan and abroad through print and electronic media.

9. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Those who are capable of rendering Islamic services among us but are busy earning their livelihood should be made free from financial worries by fixing salaries for them and they shall be used for the (religious) task they have expertise in.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a department called “Madani ka Taqarrur” (appointing a Madani) has been formed in Dawat-e-Islami. Under this department, competent and capable Madani scholars who are busy earning a livelihood for themselves are contacted and are appointed on a good salary according to their capabilities in any one of approximately 107 departments of Dawat-e-Islami. Only within last four years, more than 2000 Madani scholars have been appointed in different departments through this Majlis.

10. Saying of A’la Hadrat: Religious newspapers should be published. Every now and then, it should contain articles on every topic of Islam and it shall be distributed all across the country at a price or free of cost everyday or at least on weekly basis. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 29, pp. 599; summarised)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is striving to spread the message of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه through “Madani channel” and “IT Majlis” in electronic media; and through printing books, booklets and publishing the monthly magazine “Faizan-e-Madinah” in print media.

May Allah Almighty bless Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, with further success by the blessing of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of studying

O devotees of Rasool! Let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding studying. First, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Indeed, one acquires knowledge by seeking it. (Kanz-ul-A’maal, vol. 10, pp. 104, Hadees 29252)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: This world is accursed. Everything of it is also accursed except for the Zikr of Allah Almighty, His friends and the students and teachers of the Islamic knowledge. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 144, Hadees 2329)

٭ Studying is a means of strengthening one’s faith. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 16)

٭ One’s knowledge increases by the virtue of studying. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay? pp. 17)

٭ Studying is the source of attaining Allah’s cognition. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 18)

٭ Studying makes one contemplate and ponder over the universe. (Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 18)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls regarding studying will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ ٭ ٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 13 June 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of studying

٭ Always keep away from such books, booklets and newspapers consisting of indecent pictures and immoral content that pose a risk to your Iman.

(Mutala’ah Kya, Kyun aur Kaysay?, pp. 29)

٭ In order to learn about the blessed life-histories of the pious predecessors and to adopt their righteous deeds, it is also necessary to read the books containing information about their blessed lives. (Ibid, pp. 33)

٭ Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When you are going to seek any branch of knowledge or read anything, it is better that your knowledge and study bring about Tazkiyah Nafs (purification of the self) and spiritual reformation. (Ibid, pp. 32)

٭ Like medicines are taken and Wazaaif (Islamic invocations) are recited for strengthening memory, the act of reading is also a prescription for it. (Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ Try to keep a book with you every time as whenever you get any opportunity, read some pages of it, and by adopting this habit, one will keep engaged in the company of book. (Ibid, pp. 36)

٭ After finishing a book, it is recommended to give a bird’s eye view from start to end to what you have read and learned. Keep its summary commit to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ It is also useful to make accountability yourself examining as to what you have learned and which content is committed to your memory and which is not committed to your memory. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ For remembering anything, it is beneficial to pressurise your mind by closing your eyes. (Ibid, pp. 117)

٭ Whatever you read, share it with your family members and friends with good intentions; this is also a way to preserve the treasure of information in our mind for a long period. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ Whatever you read, keep repeating it. (Ibid, pp. 112)

٭ In Madani Muzakarahs, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه delivers interesting and precious Madani pearls of Islamic knowledge. By the blessings of these Madani Muzakarahs, one develops a strong keenness for reading further, acting upon what is read and conveying it to others. (Ibid, pp. 115)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for increasing one’s own blessings

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the Du’a for “ increasing one’s own blessings ” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

حَسْبُنَا اللّٰهُ سَیُؤْتِیْنَا اللّٰهُ مِنْ فَضْلِهٖ وَ رَسُوْلُهٗۤۙ-اِنَّاۤ اِلَى اللّٰهِ رٰغِبُوْنَ۠(۵۹)

(Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 59)

Translation from Kanz ul Iman: (‘Allah suffices for us; soon Allah, through His Benevolence, and the Messenger of Allah will give us, and only towards Allah we are inclined.’) (Faizan-e-Du’a, pp. 254)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

