اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

The Thirst for Islamic Knowledge of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recited the Holy Quran, glorified Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A great preacher

Dear Islamic brothers! Today we will have the privilege of listening to a speech about that great personality who became the cause of increasing the respect, glory, dignity and strength of Islam. He was very generous and we are still receiving his blessing, though many centuries have passed. A crowd of devotees of Rasool, devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt and the devotees of pious saints is always found at his luminous shrine; people go there and have their permissible desires fulfilled by making Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Who was that important personality? What was his name, his lineage, his Kunyah [i.e. patronymic name] and his title? We will hear about all of these in today’s Bayan, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Moreover, we will also hear about one of his great attributes, i.e. ‘The Thirst for Islamic knowledge’ and will try to act upon the Madani pearls received after hearing about this great attribute, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

After the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his blessed family and companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم strengthened and spread Islam. After the blessed companions, the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی followed in their footsteps and served Islam diligently. Amongst the pious saints, who played a leading role for preaching Islam in Pakistan and India, the name of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is dominant. Due to his preaching methodology, propagation of Islamic knowledge, individual and collaborative efforts, books and writings and spiritual power, Islam started spreading rapidly in India and a large number of people started converting to Islam. Let’s have the privilege to know about his thirst for Islamic knowledge so that we may also develop its thirst. For the sake of Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the passion for gaining Islamic knowledge! Let’s first of all listen to his brief introduction.

Introduction to Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri

His Kunyah [i.e. patronymic name] is ‘Abul Hasan’ and his name is ‘Ali. He was from Ghazni. Jullaab and Hajwayr are two of the residential areas of Ghazni.

First he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه resided in Jullaab, then he shifted to Hajwayr. Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 400 AH.

(Muqaddamah Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 8-11)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri’s Thirst for Islamic Knowledge

Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mastaan Shah Kaabuli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyid ‘Ali Bin ‘Usman Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was quite often seen in the Islamic school, founded by Mahmood Ghaznavi. At that time he was hardly 12 to 13 years old. This Islamic student who was filled with the passion for gaining Islamic knowledge would remain so busy gaining Islamic knowledge that he was never seen even drinking water from morning till evening. A white-bearded elderly man, namely Rizwan, was the Madrasah teacher. He would see this serious Islamic student with reverence.

One day, Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi passed by this Madrasah. He visited this great Islamic school. Unlike other pupils, Sayyiduna Makhdoom ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so busy with his work that he remained unaware of Sultan’s arrival. The teacher called him: ‘Look ‘Ali! Who is here?’ Now, Mahmood Ghaznavi and a very young searcher after right path were standing face to face. What a strange scene it was! Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi could not bear the Tajalliyat [spiritual appearance] of this very young student. Therefore, he immediately lowered his eyes and said to the teacher: وَاللّٰه! This child is inclined towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Such Islamic students are the beauty of this Islamic school. (Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 460)

جھولیاں بھر بھر کے لے جاتے ہیں منگتے رات دن

ہو مِری اُمید کا گلشن ہرا داتا پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain so busy gaining Islamic knowledge and studying books that he did not waste the precious moments even of a very young age. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was not heedless of the importance of time and Islamic knowledge. At this very young age, he used to be fully occupied with gaining Islamic knowledge and studying books. Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also carefully refrain from talking unnecessarily. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه loved books so much that, evening would begin during the study and he would not have time even to drink water.

It was this thirst for Islamic knowledge, love for study, confining himself to studies and the Madani mindset of remaining silent which had brought him such a high status that even his respectable teacher would see him with respect and dignity.

Even when a great devotee of Rasool and the supporter of Islamic knowledge of his time, king Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi visited his Islamic school, Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was unaware of his arrival, being occupied with [gaining] Islamic knowledge. Even Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi was greatly impressed and said the following historical and glorifying words for him: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This child is inclined towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Such Islamic students are the beauty of this Islamic school.’

Dear Islamic brothers! Thirst can be quenched by drinking water, but the person, who has a thirst for Islamic knowledge, can never be satisfied. This thirst keeps on increasing as Islamic knowledge increases. For gaining this Islamic knowledge, our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی left their family members and native cities and travelled to different countries and cities, even when travelling and communication were not so easy. In those days, such facilities we have today were not available, but since Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had deep yearning for gaining Islamic knowledge, he faced the trials and troubles to satisfy his thirst for Islamic knowledge. He travelled to countries far away, and was also privileged to receive the blessings from hundreds of Mashaaikh Kiraam [i.e. Islamic scholars and spiritual guides].

He travelled to gain Islamic knowledge

Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled a number of countries for the sole purpose of receiving blessings from Islamic scholars and Mashaaikh to satisfy his thirst for Islamic knowledge. For this purpose, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited 300 Mashaaikh Kiraam of Khurasan and gained great Islamic knowledge and pearls of wisdom from them. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 181)

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not visit 300 Islamic scholars of Khurasan only, for any worldly purpose, but he visited them for gaining Islamic knowledge. This is the number of the Islamic scholars of only one city. Surely, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه must have visited many Islamic scholars of many cities and countries. When we hear about the extremely hard work and thirst for gaining Islamic knowledge of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it reminds us of our pious predecessors as Data ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also had the thirst for gaining Islamic knowledge and love for study like pious predecessors. Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would remain busy gaining Islamic knowledge day and night. They used to study with great devotion and hard work. They used to sacrifice their desires for the sake of gaining Islamic knowledge. For our persuasion, let’s listen to 2 parables about thirst for Islamic knowledge of pious saints:

Thirst for Islamic knowledge of Imam Muslim

Once, in the Majlis [i.e. gathering] of [propagating] Islamic knowledge, the author of a famous book of Hadees, ‘ Sahih Muslim ’, Sayyiduna Imam Muslim Bin Hajjaj Qushayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked about a Hadees. So he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to his home and started searching for the Hadees. A basket of dates was presented to him. While searching the Hadees, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه continued eating the dates one after another. When the Hadees was found, he had eaten up all the dates. Due to eating so many dates, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. (Tahzeeb-ut-Tahzeeb, vol. 8, pp. 150, Raqm 6894)

Thirst for Islamic knowledge of Sayyiduna Dahhaak

The title of Sayyiduna Dahhaak Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is ‘Nabeel’. This title was given because one day he was present (to gain Islamic knowledge) in the

Islamic school of Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Jurayj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ; suddenly an elephant passed by. All the students left their lesson and went to see the elephant, but he continued to sit in his lesson. Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Jurayj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: ‘Dahhaak! Why did you not go to see the elephant?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly replied: ‘The elephant is not better than your company!’ Having heard this reply, Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Jurayj رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘ اَنْتَ النَّبِيل ’, i.e. you are quite excellent . (Tahzeeb-ut-Tahzeeb, vol. 4, pp. 79, Raqm 3057)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! The thirst for Islamic knowledge of our pious saints was so unquenchable that when these personages would get busy gaining Islamic knowledge, they would not take care of anything around them so that they could succeed in achieving their aim. Indeed, these great personages devoted everything for Islamic knowledge, and then as a result, they did not remain deprived of it, rather they became the leaders of the Muslims by virtue of gaining Islamic knowledge. Surely, they gained this high status by virtue of the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being aware of the virtues of Islamic knowledge and having the love for Islamic knowledge; that today we are doing their Zikr and illuminating our hearts. For persuasion, let’s listen to the three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم consisting of the virtues of Islamic knowledge:

1. The person, who left [his home] to gain Islamic knowledge, is in the way of Allah until he returns. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 294, Raqm 2656)

2. Welcome to the Islamic student! Angels surround the Islamic student and make a shelter over him with their wings, they then love the Islamic student due to his act of gaining Islamic knowledge, and their line extends to the sky. (Tabarani Kabeer, vol. 8, pp. 54, Hadees 7347)

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will resurrect bondmen on the Judgement Day. Then He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say after separating Islamic scholars: O the group of Islamic scholars! I know you that’s why I had bestowed knowledge upon you, and [I] had not bestowed knowledge upon you to make you suffer torment. (Therefore, now) Go! Because I have forgiven you.

(Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm-e-Deen, pp. 69, Hadees 211)

نہ نامے میں عِبادت ہے نہ پلّے کچھ رِیاضت ہے

اِلٰہی! مغفرت فرما ہماری اپنی رحمت سے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Mentioning the advantages and benefits of Islamic knowledge, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Knowledge is not something whose excellence and virtues need to be defined. The whole world knows that knowledge is something much better, and it is a great honour to gain it. It is something through which human life becomes successful and pleasant, and it is knowledge which makes the world and the Hereafter better. It is the knowledge that brings about salvation. It is the knowledge which has been praised in the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees. It is the knowledge for which we have been persuaded to pay attention to.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 618)

Knowledge is the legacy of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام ; knowledge is the way of getting close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; knowledge is the source of guidance; knowledge is the source of avoiding sins; knowledge is a great cause of being blessed with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; knowledge is the source of attaining respect in this world and the Hereafter; knowledge brings dead hearts to life; knowledge protects the faith; knowledge is the source of attaining people’s love; in short, knowledge has countless virtues. It has both religious and worldly benefits; it has comfort and satisfaction; it has pleasure and peace, therefore, wise is he who gets busy gaining Islamic knowledge to make his Hereafter better. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us also with the passion for gaining Islamic knowledge!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

الله! مجھے عالمِ دین بنا دے

اور دین کے احکام پہ بھی مجھ کو چلا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Home environment usually plays a key role in the development of a person’s character, whether it is good or bad. If family members, in particular, parents are committing evils, then children may also have its bad effects. On the other hand, if parents are pious, Salah-offering, Allah-fearing, devotees of Rasool and blessed with Islamic knowledge, then the blessing of their education, upbringing and virtues will not be limited to themselves only, but, by the grace and favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessing will transfer from generation to generation; as the first Islamic school of children is their home.

Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Children carefully see and hear every act of their parents and memorise their acts of worship and Du’as and try to imitate them. A father should try to set a good example as children imitate their father. The first Madrasah (school) of children is their home and the first Islamic teachers are their parents. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 28)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated at another place: As a child gains understanding capabilities, he adopts habits similar to what he observes his parents and his fellows doing. Parents are the first teachers of their child; their company has a significant effect on the nature of the child. Therefore, it is necessary to find good husbands for your daughters and religious and pious wives for your sons so that the children become pious. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 100)

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, it was by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed such virtuous qualities and the thirst for Islamic knowledge. In addition, his family members, especially the education and upbringing of parents also played a vital role in it. Let’s now listen to some details about the exemplary family of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and then try to act upon the obtained Madani pearls.

Pious family of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri

The father of Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri, Sayyiduna Usman Bin ‘Abdul Rahman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great Islamic scholar, a pious man and a great worshipper of his time. In the era of kingdom of Ghazniyah, Islamic scholars, great Mashaaikh, poets and saints from all over the world had gathered in ‘Ghazni’. Therefore, ‘Ghazni’ became the centre of knowledge and skills. Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the father of Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri also resided there. Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri’s respected mother belonged to Husayni Sadaat. She was very pious and used to worship a lot. (Faizan Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri, pp. 6) She used to do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Faizan Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri, pp. 8)

The maternal uncle of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri achieved fame through the appellation of ‘Taj-ul-Awliya’ by virtue of being pious and ascetic. In short, his family was famous for nobility and truthfulness, and knowledge and dignity. (Faizan Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri, pp. 6)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such a noble family. His father was a great scholar of his time and mother was a pious lady, a great worshipper and a devotee of recitation of the Holy Quran, whereas his maternal uncle was not an ordinary person, but rather he was famous by the appellation of ‘Taj-ul-Awliya’ i.e. the crown of blessed Awliya.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! When Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in such family that was blessed with knowledge and Amal [i.e. acting upon the acquired knowledge], worship and spiritual exercises and the recitation of the Holy Quran, he also received its great blessings. By virtue of his family, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him also with piety and righteousness. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed great knowledge upon Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also benefited the people with it greatly.

مجھ کو داتا تاجدارانِ جہاں سے کیا غَرَض

میں تو ہوں منگتا تِرے دربار کا داتا پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! Currently, such piety and ascetic and love for Islamic knowledge are neither seen in parents, nor in children. Perhaps, the reason is that the parents make huge efforts to train their children only in worldly activities. Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Parents should not only make their children rich before departing this life, but they should make them religious, who benefit them [i.e. parents] also in their graves; as the reward of good deeds of living children is given to the dead in their graves. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 565)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When a person dies, then all his deeds are discontinued except for three deeds – (1) Permanent source of Divine reward (2) the knowledge from which people get benefit and (3) the righteous children who make Du’a for him.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 886, Hadees 1631; Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 593)

Elaborating on the above-mentioned blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmed Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A pious child means the son who has Islamic knowledge and who acts upon it as well. The author of the book Mirqat has said: A son should remember his father in his Du’a. Even in Salah, first he should make Du’a for [his] mother and father, and then should perform Salam. Otherwise, if a pious son does not make Du’a, even then his parents will keep on getting reward. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 189)

Role of mother in Madani upbringing of children

Dear Islamic brothers! Mother plays a more important role in bringing improvement or spoiling her child because the lap of mother is the first school of a child. If this learning centre is good, the person who is taught here will also become good. For example, if mothers act upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bait رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم, and pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی ; if mothers are the real devotees of Ummahat-ul-Mu’mineen, Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra and other Sahabiyyat رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ ; if they are blessed with the thirst for Islamic knowledge and love for recitation of the Holy Quran; if they are pious, worshippers, spend life in accordance with the Sunnah and are associated

with religious environment, then their children will also be blessed with the same attributes.

Instead of doing Zikr, reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, reciting the Holy Quran, performing worship and gaining Islamic knowledge; unfortunately, nowadays women spend most of their time in backbiting each other, tale-telling, wandering unnecessarily in the markets, watching films, dramas, listening to songs and music, reading novels and digests, misusing computers, mobile phones, internet etc., committing impermissible acts being influenced by the social media and adopting latest fashion; whereas the rest of the time they spend in doing domestic chores. As a result, the bad effects of these non-practicing mothers, who remain heedless of reforming their children, directly transfer to the next generations as well. It has been seen that children of such mothers become gamblers, swindlers, terrorists, addicts of hemp (drug), vagabonds, thieves, robbers, etc. When these people commit crimes they are arrested, and sometimes, they are even sentenced to death. Let’s listen to an admonitory parable of such criminal:

It is stated on page 17 of 188-page book namely, ‘ Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad ’ [Upbringing of Children], published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Once, a dangerous robber was arrested and was convicted of robberies and murders. As a result, he was sentenced to be hanged. As the time of execution approached, he was asked about his last wish. He expressed the wish to meet his mother. Hence his mother was called. As soon as he saw his mother, he pounced on [i.e. attacked] her, clawing and beating her. The security personnel on duty managed to get the injured mother freed from her cruel son.

When asked, why he did such an inappropriate act, he replied that it was his own mother who had led him to the gallows. Going into some detail, he said: In my childhood, I stole a pencil of a child at school, brought it home and showed it to my mother. Instead of developing hatred against theft in me, she smiled and then got silent. Immature as I was, I assumed that I had done something very good! Encouraged, I started stealing more pencils and note books. After I matured, my habit of stealing things had become very firm. I then started committing robberies recklessly. During some looting sprees, I

even committed some murders, becoming a murderer and a dangerous robber. At last, I was arrested and today the hangman’s noose is going to be tied around my neck because of the wrong upbringing which my unwise mother gave me. (Tarbiyyat-e-Awlad, pp. 17)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you realise! The heedlessness of mother and her wrong upbringing brought about such result that her son stepped into the world of crimes and finally died, being hanged. On the other hand, the mothers who possess good character, have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, those who are not indulged in the temporary luxuries of this world, who are very modest, have the passion for dying and living for the promulgation of Islam, who wish to receive the eternal blessings of Paradise; then they develop the same Madani mind-set of their sons. Such mothers gave birth to Muhaddiseen, revivalists, exegetists, pious saints, blessed Muftis, great Islamic scholars, Imam of Muslims, Muslims who sacrificed their lives for the sake of Islam, Islamic rulers whose hearts were filled with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Therefore, parents should become sensible, bring about a positive change in their mind-set and give importance to this blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Further, giving their children Madani upbringing, they should also try to refrain from every minor and grave sin. They should observe Pardah from non-Mahram, offer Faraaid and Wajibat, Sunan and Mustahabbat regularly. They should seek knowledge of acts of worship along with seeking spiritual knowledge.

They should adopt good habits and good manners. They should develop the same Madani mind-set of their children. If children commit disobedience and behave badly, they should always be gently advised in private. They should not be allowed to spend time with bad friends and people of corrupt beliefs because having the company of such people, receiving education from them, listening to their speeches or reading their literature; endangers a person’s faith [Iman].

Make your children Haafiz-e-Quran, Qaari of Quran, Islamic scholar and Mufti in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Do not read story books or books of funny jokes, nor let them read such books, but rather read the books and booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Attend weekly

Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarah yourself and also persuade your children to attend these. If sinful channels, films and dramas are watched, or songs are listened at home; stop watching and listening to them and watch only 100 per cent Islamic channel, i.e. Madani Channel. If we succeed in living our life as per these Madani pearls, definitely there will be no more ignorance in our society, and Sunnah will spread everywhere and our every child will become pious and obedient to us, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

یا ربّ بچا لے تُو مجھے نارِ جحیم سے

اولاد پر بھی بلکہ جہنم حرام ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Chowk Dars – a Madani activity out of12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has gifted us with a Madani aim, i.e. ‘ I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. So associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for reforming your own self and people of the entire world, and participate actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. One of the 12 Madani activities is to deliver ‘Chowk Dars’ daily. Surely, Chowk Dars is an act of great blessing and excellence and a best and effective means of ‘ اَمْرٌ بِالْمَعْرُوف وَنَہْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر ’ i.e. enjoining righteousness and forbidding evil. The Ummah that enjoins righteousness and forbids evils has been stated as the best Ummah. It is stated in Ayah 110 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

كُنْتُمْ خَیْرَ اُمَّةٍ اُخْرِجَتْ لِلنَّاسِ تَاْمُرُوْنَ بِالْمَعْرُوْفِ وَ تَنْهَوْنَ عَنِ الْمُنْكَرِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: You are the best amongst all the nations that emerged among the people – you command what is good and prohibit what is evil. (Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 110)

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has narrated: Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام once humbly asked Allah, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What is the reward for the one asking his brother to do good deeds and preventing him from evils?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘I write the reward of one year’s worship for each Kalimah (word) of his and I have Haya (shyness) in giving him the torment of Hell.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 48)

Therefore, we should also deliver Chowk Dars. If we cannot deliver Dars, then at least we should be amongst those who listen to it so that we may receive the blessings and excellence of ‘ اَمْرٌ بِالْمَعْرُوف وَنَہْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَر ’. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of Chowk Dars.

Blessings of giving Dars alone

No words can express the greatness of delivering Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat . One brother from the Lines Area of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi narrated: I was standing on the roof of my house when I saw an Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami, with a green ‘Imamah on his head, giving Chowk Dars all alone by the street corner. No one was there to listen to him. Even though I was away from religion and would avoid Islamic brothers who wore green ‘Imamahs, when I saw that brother giving Dars all alone, I felt bad. I went down and joined his Dars in sympathy. Joining that Dars became a source for my reformation and I became attached to the Madani environment. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at the time of giving this statement, I am in charge of Madani In’amaat in my locality. There was a time when I used to run away from people wearing green ‘Imamahs and اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and today the crown of the green ‘Imamah is shining on my head.

اے بیمارِ عِصیاں تُو آ جا یہاں پر گناہوں کی دَیگا دوا مدنی ماحول

گنہگارو آؤ سیَہ کارو آؤ گناہوں کو دَیگا چُھڑا مدنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! This question may arise in someone’s mind that the previous age was good from every perspective. The evils which are prevalent nowadays were not common in those days, nor were there such instruments and sources in abundance which instigate people to commit evil acts. Islamic teachings were usually followed by majority of the families; not only parents, but all the family members were pious, ascetic, knowledgeable and practicing Muslims. In particular, the role of mothers used to be very praiseworthy as we have heard about the mother of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri that she was a very pious lady and a great worshipper. There used to be many pious people in such families as compared to today. On the other hand, today evil acts are being committed abundantly everywhere, no one acts upon the Islamic teachings except a few, therefore, at present, neither do we have mothers of such good attributes, nor children who have the attributes of such pious predecessors.

The answer to this question is: Though at present, people are more immodest and non-practicing, it does not mean that pious mothers and pious saints do not exist anymore. Undoubtedly, pious and ascetic mothers and the pious saints, who have been brought up by those mothers, are still benefiting the Muslims on the earth. By the blessing of Awliya, even today, the Madani news of many non-Muslims’ conversion to Islam is received off and on. By their blessing, even today there are still Salah-offering people found in Masajid. Of course, even today many people, who did not use to offer Salah in the past, who were drinkers, thieves, robbers and disobedient to their parents; they are becoming righteous after repenting of their sins. Of course! Even today, those who watched Haraam acts with their eyes on sinful channels and displeased Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, are coming to the right path by the blessings of someone’s advice. Of course! The Islamic Madaris and Jami’aat, which give Islamic knowledge, are still providing the blessings of knowledge by virtue of which, hundreds of Islamic brothers are becoming Islamic scholars and illuminating the darkness of ignorance through the light of their knowledge. Of course! In today’s troubled times, a great scholarly and spiritual personage of 15 th century [of Islamic Calendar], Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is the spiritual guide who possesses the great attributes of the pious saints.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The education and the Madani upbringing of this great pious saint was given to him by a pious lady and worshipper, who used to follow Shar’i rules and regulations strictly herself and remained busy throughout her life persuading her children to follow Shari’ah in every walk of life. Let’s listen to the brief introduction of the great mother of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

Blessed Zikr of ‘Umm-e-‘Attar

The respected mother رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat was a pious and ascetic lady who gave Islamic upbringing to her children, despite facing lots of financial problems after the demise of (her) husband. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه himself is its perfect example. He once told: ‘ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, my mother used to act upon Faraaid and Wajibat so strictly that she started advising us to offer Salah when we were very young and not only did she advise us, but she also became strict in making us offer Salah. She رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا used to wake all of us especially for Fajr Salah. By virtue of this kind of advice and upbringing, I do not remember if I had ever missed Fajr Salah in my childhood.’

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه said: My mother passed away on Friday-night at Methadar, Karachi. She رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا missed me very much at the time of her death. My sister told me, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the last words that my mother recited were Kalimah and Istighfar (repentance). Her face had become very bright, especially after the Ghusl [ ritual bath given to a deceased ]. Fragrance was felt for many days at the place where she رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا passed away. Different fragrances were felt especially in that part of the night in which she had passed away.

On the day of Sawyam, I brought some roses which remained fresh almost till the evening. I laid them over my mother’s grave with my own hands. Believe me! They had such pleasant fragrance which I have never smelt in my life to date. I was completely astounded; the fragrance could be felt even from my hands for many hours. (Tazkirah Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, part 2, pp. 41)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the mother of ‘Attar was not an ordinary woman, but she رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا was the pious, courageous, thankful and forbearing bondwoman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, who remained busy bringing up her

children steadfastly as per Sunnah in the face of financial problems. She not only used to offer Salah regularly and follow Sunnah strictly herself, but she رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْهَا also used to advise her children to offer Salah. Perhaps, this is her noble action which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ liked and she departed this life in the state of Iman. Her face became very bright after her demise and the place where she passed away was full of sweet fragrance. If our Islamic sisters also learn from the blessed character of the mother of Attar and oppose Nafs and Satan, follow Shari’ah in every matter, offer Faraaid and Wajibat strictly; if they make efforts to make their children offer Salah and acquire necessary Islamic knowledge in the same way as they focus on their children’s worldly education and try to make them regular at school and tuition; then they will not only have many benefits in this world, but they will also attain many blessings in the Hereafter.

The ‘Urs of the mother of Attar is celebrated on 17 Safar-ul-Muzaffar. If possible, travel with Madani Qafilahs for the Isal-e-Sawab of the mother of Attar.

Sayings of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri

Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for understanding the importance of Islamic knowledge and for the persuasion to act upon it. Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

It is not necessary for a person to know about all branches of knowledge. He must acquire at least that much knowledge which blessed Shari’ah has declared necessary.

It is necessary for a student to acquire knowledge for becoming a practicing Muslim.

Nafs may agree upon stepping on a fire, but acting upon the knowledge is far more difficult than it.

He is not an Islamic scholar who considers it sufficient to only [acquire] knowledge [without acting upon it]. Knowledge benefits by virtue of its practice. Therefore, one should never separate knowledge from practice.

The person, who is not cautious about the matters of Shari’ah, who gains the knowledge of Shari’ah without being pious and ascetic, who tries to find out Rukhsat [i.e. easiness] and Taweelaat [i.e. interpretations] and hence becomes uncertain [in the matters], who does not follow the blessed Aimmah and becomes a [so-called] Mujtahid himself, then such a person will soon indulge in the sins. In fact, these things develop because of a negligent heart. (Faizan Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri, pp. 69-71)

میٹھے میٹھے مُصطفٰے کی بارگاہِ پاک میں

کیجئے میری سِفارش آپ یا داتا پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to the booklet ‘Faizan-e-Daata Ali Hajwayri’

Dear Islamic brothers! For getting further information about the sayings of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his blessed life history, study an 84-page booklet namely, ‘ Faizan-e-Daata Ali Hajwayri ’, published by the publishing department, Maktaba-tul-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the life history of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his yearning for Islamic knowledge, his journey for acquiring Islamic knowledge, his saintly miracles, his books, his sayings and many other Madani pearls have been mentioned in this booklet. Therefore, buy this booklet from Maktaba-tul-Madinah today, read it yourself and distribute it to others in a large number with the intention of earning reward.

The ‘Urs of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is marked on 20 th Safar-ul-Muzaffar, expectedly (22 nd November) this year. On this great occasion, thousands of devotees of Rasool and followers of Daata Sahib have the privilege of coming from far and wide to pay a visit to the luminous shrine of Daata Sahib for receiving the blessings and for getting their wishes and desires fulfilled. One of the best and easiest sources of conveying the call towards righteousness and introducing Dawat-e-Islami to them is to distribute ‘Madani booklets’. From Maktaba-tul-Madinah, if possible, buy the booklets which contain knowledge about the blessed life of Data Sahib, and distribute

those booklets. Otherwise, booklets on any topic can be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and distributed to them. Apart from Markaz-e-Awliya (Lahore) the devotees of Rasool from all over the world can distribute Madani booklets for the Isal-e-Sawab of Data Sahib. Let’s immediately make the intention that we will also distribute Madani booklets for the Isal-e-Sawab of Data Sahib, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The booklet, ‘ Faizan-e-Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri’ can be read, downloaded, and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, i.e. www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to receive his blessings, if we study about the daily routine of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we will come to know that he devoted his life for giving call towards righteousness, serving people and propagating Islamic knowledge. Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would teach in the day, and in the night, he would guide those people who were in search for the right path. Through his efforts, thousands of illiterate people became Islamic scholars, thousands of non-Muslims converted to Islam, thousands of those people who had deviated from the Islamic path, started following the right path and were blessed with the wealth of intellect and wisdom, thousands of imperfect people became perfect and thousands of transgressors became righteous. Shuyookh visited him from far and wide and received blessings from him. (Hadiqa-tul-Awliya, pp. 182)

گنج بخشِ فیضِ عالم مظہرِ نورِ خُدا

نا قصاں را پیرِ کامل کاملاں را راہنما

Explanation of couplet: He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is the one who distributes treasure, benefits the creation and he is the manifestation of the Noor of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a perfect spiritual guide for the imperfect people and a guide for the perfect ones.

The glory, greatness and yearning for Islamic knowledge of Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه can be judged by the fact that he gained Islamic knowledge also from the Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, being in his company. Remember, there are some conditions for meeting Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام .

Receiving blessing from Sayyiduna Khidar

Sayyiduna ‘Ali Khawwaas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There are three conditions for meeting Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام: (1) He should be the man of practicing the blessed Sunnah (2) He should not be greedy for this world (3) For Muslims, his heart remains clean. Neither should he bear malice, nor jealousy and nor should he be arrogant to anyone. (Al-Meezan-ul-Khidriyah, pp. 15)

The blessed personality of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه abided by all these three conditions. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great follower of Sunnah, he kept himself away from the greed for this world, and he was a well- wisher of Muslims. It is for the reason he not only had the privilege to meet Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also gained apparent and spiritual knowledge from Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a close friendship with Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام . (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 16)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a special blessing and grace, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ descended upon our Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ not only blessed him with the passion for gaining and imparting Islamic knowledge, but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bestowed upon him the privilege of gaining apparent and spiritual knowledge from the blessed Nabi, Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام .

Remember! Sayyiduna Khidar عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام is such a righteous and honourable Nabi of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who is still physically alive and has been entrusted with the task of guiding people in the sea. (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 483)

کاش میں رویا کروں عشقِ رسولِ پاک میں

سوز دو ایسا پئے احمد رضا داتا پِیا

Dear Islamic brothers! With the blessed Wasilah (intermediation) of Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also blessed Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat with the treasure of yearning for Islamic knowledge and wisdom with which very few people have been blessed with. In his personality, the signs of the teachings of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and of other blessed saints are clearly visible because by the blessings of these Allah loving people, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is fully overwhelmed with deep yearning of gaining Islamic knowledge, plus propagating and disseminating Islamic teaching all over the world.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of his spiritual teachings, Islamic transformation has occurred in the lives of thousands of Muslims, especially in the lives of youth and they have repented of their sins and started offering Salah and following Sunnah. If we listen to the Madani Muzakarahs, which consist of the answers to the questions about different topics such as beliefs and deeds, Shari’ah and Tareeqah, history, life history, medical science and spirituality, etc. As well as large number of speeches on reformatory, Fiqhi, spiritual and ethical topics; and if we study the excellent book Faizan-e-Sunnat, which is the beautiful collection of countless Sunnah, and other books and booklets on countless topics, so we will be able to know the kind of knowledge Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Have a look at the huge crowd of people belong to Dawat-e-Islami! By virtue of this true believer, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made thousands of Muslims Salah-offering who were away from Salah, fashion lovers became the followers of Sunnah and transgressors became the pious people, people with corrupt became the people of right beliefs, ignorant ones became the learned people, non-practicing people gained firmness in the blessed acts of worship, impassive and uninterested people experienced the pleasure of devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, fearless people became Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ fearing and the Islamic sisters had the privilege to have the ornaments of shyness and modesty. If we look at the very positive and encouraging developments being received from Islamic scholars, great Muftis, writers, Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat, we will learn how Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has eradicated ignorance through this pious saint, the true devotee of Beloved Rasool and A’la Hadrat.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! People are following Sunnah everywhere by virtue of his efforts. Appreciating his untiring efforts not only the people, but the Islamic scholars of the entire world speak in the following poetic words. Let’s listen to it:

مسلک کا تُو اِمام ہے اِلیاس قادری

تدبیر تیری تام ہے الیاس قادری

فکرِ رضا کو کر دیا عالَم پہ آشکار

یہ تیرا اُونچا کام ہے الیاس قادری

سنّت کی خوشبؤوں سے زمانہ مہک اُٹھا

فیضان تیرا عام ہے الیاس قادری

ہے دعوتِ اسلامی کی دُنیا م ی ں دھوم دھام

مقبول تیرا کام ہے الیاس قادری

تنہا چلا تُو ساتھ تِرے ہو گیا جہاں

میٹھا تیرا کلام ہے الیاس قادری

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah Dawat-e-Islami is busy serving Ummah through inviting the people towards righteousness by its almost 103 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya’. The duty of this Majlis is to invite the Za`eereen (visitors of shrine) to Salah as it is seen that those, who visit these shrines, are very lazy in offering Salah. Dawat-e-Islami is a Masjid enlivening movement. In this Madani environment, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ such a spiritual mind-set of performing Salah is given that no matter what happens but people do not miss their Salah. The duty assigned to this Majlis is to guide the people about the blessed life history of the pious saint of the shrine people visit and to

persuade people to follow in their footsteps, to make people travel with Madani Qafilahs, to encourage the visitors to attend the Halqahs of the Madani Qafilah at different timings as per the schedule and to motivate them to act upon Madani In’amaat.

Apart from this, this Majlis call people towards righteousness and to convey the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami to the visitors of the shrine through distributing the books and booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we are fortunate enough to have been privileged to hear about the thirst for Islamic knowledge of pious saint of Allah, Sayyiduna Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri’. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard about the yearning for Islamic knowledge of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

We have heard that Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to be fully engrossed in acquiring Islamic knowledge so much that evening would pass but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not even think about drinking water. Would that, by virtue of the blessings of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we respect and value our time instead of wasting time in using mobile phones, and chatting with friends, etc.!

If only we would also be blessed with the passion for acquiring Islamic knowledge

Not only the teachers of Daata Ganj Bakhsh, but the king of that time was also very much impressed by the yearning for Islamic knowledge of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

The family of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri was the embodiment of knowledge and practicing [upon the knowledge], piety and ascetic.

§ If only we would also develop Madani environment at our homes for the sake of Daata ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه!

§ If only every member of our family would become Salah-offering and the devotee of Rasool!

§ If only our houses would become the centre of peace!

§ If only the whole family members would act upon Madani In’amaat!

§ If only we would develop the passion for knowledge and practice [upon the knowledge]!

§ If only we would be blessed with the wealth of piety and ascetic!

§ By virtue of the blessing of Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Madani transformation took place in the lives of thousands of people.

§ If only we would also act upon the blessed Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

§ If only we would begin to carry out noble acts!

§ If only we would have such a Madani transformation by the blessing of knowledge and noble acts that may Allah, along with our family members, our neighbours and people of our areas also be blessed with the benefits of our knowledge and noble action!

§ If only we would be blessed with the passion for calling people towards righteousness at our homes, to our neighbours, to our relatives and wherever we have our relations and amongst the gatherings we spend our time.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ descend loads of blessings upon the luminous shrine of Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and also bless us with the wealth of Islamic knowledge for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of walking

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of walking with the intention of acting upon Sunnahs:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah 37:

وَ لَا تَمْشِ فِی الْاَرْضِ مَرَحًاۚ- اِنَّكَ لَنْ تَخْرِقَ الْاَرْضَ وَ لَنْ تَبْلُغَ الْجِبَالَ طُوْلًا(۳۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you reach height of the mountains. (Part 15, Bani Israel, Ayah 37)

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking arrogantly]. He was sunk into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

1. When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

2. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in surprise, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill.

3. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered.

4. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise.

5. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

6. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

