اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Farooq-e-A’zam’s Fear of Allah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Those people who sit in any gathering [and] do not make Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and do not recite Salat upon the Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) will be overwhelmed with regret and wistfulness on the Day of Judgement when they see its reward even if they enter Jannah.

(Ibid, vol. 3, pp. 489, Hadees 9972)

یا الٰہی دے سَعادت خُوب اپنے ذِکر کی

اور دُرُودِ پاک پڑھنے کی بھی تُو تَوفیق دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Terrifying description of Hell

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (a famous Taabi’i saint), ‘O Ka’b (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! Tell us some frightening things.’ Carrying out the order, Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said: O leader of the believers! If you come on the Day of Judgement with the deeds of even seventy Ambiya عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, you will still consider them [i.e. deeds] to be very less after you have seen the conditions of the Judgement Day. Listening to it, the leader of the believers رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ lowered his head for a while. Having recovered from his overwhelming state, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘O Ka’b (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! Carry on, please. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: O leader of the believers! If as much part of the Hell as a nostril of a bull is opened in the east, the brain of the person present in the west will boil and flow out due to its heat. On hearing it, the leader of the believers lowered his head for a while (because of experiencing very strong feelings).

Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further said: On the Day of Judgement, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will gather all people of every age in a plain. Then angels will descend and stand in rows. Afterwards, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say, ‘O Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)! Bring Hell.’ Sayyiduna Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) will bring Hell with its seventy thousand reins being pulled. When Hell is hundred years of distance away from creation, it will thunder so fiercely that their hearts will tremble with fear. When it will thunder again, every respected angel and Nabi will kneel down. When it will thunder for the third time, the hearts of people will move up to the throat and their intellect will be overpowered by fear. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام will humbly say, ‘O Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of being Your Khaleel, I ask You for myself only.’ Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام will humbly say, ‘O Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of my Munajat (supplications), I ask You for myself only.’ Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام will humbly say, ‘O Almighty! For the sake of the respect You have given me, I ask You for myself only. (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol. 1, pp. 49)

جَلا دے نہ نارِ جہنّم کرم ہو پئے بادشاہِ اُمَم یا الٰہی

مجھے نارِ دوزخ سے ڈر لگ رہا ہے ہو مجھ ناتُواں پر کرم یا الٰہی

تُو عطّؔار کو بے سبب بخش مَولٰی کرم کر کرم کر کرم یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How terrifying scene will it be when the Hell is brought on the Judgement Day? Just imagine! Now the sun is at a distance of four thousand years from us, and it has its back towards us but on the Day of Judgement, the sun will be only at a distance of one and a quarter miles and its front will be facing us. On that day, due to its heat, brains will boil and people will be sweating so excessively that the sweat will be soaked through seventy yards into the earth. The sweat that the earth is not able to absorb will start to rise. Some people will have it rise up to their ankles, some will have it up to their knees, for some it will rise up to their backs or up to their chests. For yet others it will rise up to their necks and for the non-believers, their sweat will rise up to their mouths and will get hold of them like reins. They will be paddling into it. In this state of [extreme] heat, the level of thirst one can feel is beyond words. Tongues will shrink like thorns and some people’s tongues will be sticking out with their hearts stuck in their throats. Their intensity of punishment will be dependent upon the severity of sins. Even though the punishment will be so severe, there will be no support or help. A brother will run away from his brother, parents will run away from their children, and members of the whole family will try to escape from each other. Every individual will be worried about himself and nobody will help anyone else? (Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 157)

At this time, despite all these difficulties, the Hell will also be brought. The hearts of the creation will be trembled with thunder. In short, the hardships of the Judgement Day will be such that even big righteous deeds will also be felt less; very wise people will lose their wisdom even the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام who are certainly forgiven, will also have concern for themselves. Just ponder! What will happen to us at that critical time?

Today we are committing sins all the time. We are spending our day and night heedlessly. We have started trusting the temporary life of this world after forgetting the eternal life. We have become so much busy with the passion to earn money that we have forgotten the real purpose of our birth. Neither do we care for the death throes, nor have any fear for the dark ditch of grave. Just ponder! How shall we endure the hardships of the Judgement Day? Therefore, it is better for us to have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and ponder over the Hereafter. We should perform good deeds abundantly, keep ourselves away from sins and have the company of righteous people. Remember, Satan is our enemy. It will never let us stop committing sins and start performing good deeds. Therefore, it will try to put different types of evil thoughts as advice in our minds such as emotional decision is not good; gradually reform yourself; do not become a Maulvi all of a sudden; it is not good to travel with the Madani Qafilah enabling one to learn Sunnah immediately; carry on your efforts gradually. The whole life is there for you. You are so young now. You have not got married yet. Grow your beard after you get married or rather go to perform Hajj and grow beard in Madinah Munawwarah. Start wearing ‘Imamah when you get old, etc.

حُبِّ دُنیا میں دل پھنس گیا ہے

نَفسِ بدکار حاوِی ہوا ہے

ہائے شیطاں بھی پیچھے پڑا ہے

یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

My dear Islamic brothers remember! All these satanic thoughts are extremely dangerous. There is only loss in making your mind to reform yourself gradually. It will not only increase your sins, but will also give you no guarantee whether you may get time to repent or not, because death does not approach only elderly ones, cancer or heart patients etc. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows better, each day a number of young people become the victim of traffic accidents and meet sudden death. Therefore, before death comes to you and you stop breathing, immediately bow down in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, repent of your sins and start performing good deeds.

بڑی کوششیں کی گناہ چھوڑنے کی رہے آہ! ناکام ہم یا الٰہی!

مجھے سچّی تَوبہ کی توفیق دیدے پئے تاجدارِ حرم یا الٰہی!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beseeching in Salah!

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just heard a parable and the conditions of the plain of Judgement Day along with Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the one who attained blessings and education [Tarbiyyat] from the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He had a great knowledge and was a great practising companion. He was Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen of his time i.e. despite being the caliph of Muslims he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would often weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He would cry in Salah if he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would listen to a blessed Ayah about fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

His son Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once while offering Salah led by Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ I heard the sound of his crying behind three rows. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 88)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Saa`ib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got late due to any reason in ‘Isha Salah, I led the ‘Isha Salah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came later on and joined the Salah. Reciting Surah Az-Zariyaat when I reached this blessed Ayah:

وَ فِی السَّمَآءِ رِزْقُكُمْ وَ مَا تُوْعَدُوْنَ(۲۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And in the Heaven is your sustenance, and that which you are promised.

Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started crying loudly. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 12, pp. 257, Hadees 35788)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Try to follow in life of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely offering Salah with its real pleasure is the Mi’raaj of worship. Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would offer Salah with extreme humility and self-mortification. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep out of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in Salah and would enjoy the real pleasure of worship. But alas, majority of us are heedless of offering Salah and are violating the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the rest who do offer Salah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows how many of them offer Salah with sincerity and how many offer without sincerity. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows as to how many Muslims take care of humility and self-mortification in their Salah and how many are engrossed in the thoughts of their friends, homes, business, etc. instead of humility and self-mortification. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows as to how many Salah-offering people keep in mind Sunan and Wajib acts and the acts of Salah and how many focus on their worldly necessities, desires and wishes.

Remember, Salah is extremely important right out of the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It can be understood by the fact that the first question out of the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on the Judgement Day, will be asked about Salah. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَایُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَاتُہ ’ i.e., the first question on the Judgement Day from a bondman will be about his Salah. Therefore we should prefer Salah to all of our worldly affairs and get busy preparing for it leaving all of our worldly activities. We should offer Salah with Jama’at with extreme humility and self-mortification because offering Salah properly not only brings about countless blessings of the world and the Hereafter, but it also brings about the Hereafter benefit in the form of our salvation and forgiveness on the Judgement Day.

Salvation for the one who offered Salah with extreme humility and self-mortification

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made five Salahs obligatory. The one who performs Wudu for them properly and offers them at their fixed times, and performs their Ruku’ and Sujood with humility, so it is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive him; and the one who does not perform them, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has no reward for him; He may forgive him or torment him. (Sunan Abu Dawood, vol. 1, pp. 186, Raqm 425)

Introduction to Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some more parables of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and try to keep the Madani pearls obtained from them in mind. But first of all let’s listen to his introduction.

His patronymic name is ‘Abu Hafs’ and title is ‘Farooq-e-A’zam’. According to a narration, in the sixth year of the proclamation of Prophethood, he was the 40 th men to embrace Islam. In fact, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam by virtue of the Du’a made by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is called ‘ مُتَمِّمُ الْاَربَعِین ’ [Mutammim-ul-Arba’een], that is, the one who completed the figure 40. As he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accepted Islam Muslims became very pleased and they got such a great support that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah publicly in congregation with Muslims inside the sacred Haram. Being a majestic warrior he participated in Islamic battles and remained a faithful companion as a minister and advisor of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in all of his planning.

The first caliph, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ nominated Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as the caliph after him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ carried out all the responsibilities of Khilafat marvellously and proved to be the worthy successor of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the wish of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (i.e. he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the outcome of the blessed Du’a of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). His blessed heart was very illuminated with Divine luminosities. Having been guided by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he became the source of guidance. Whoever follows in his footsteps, lightened his world and the Hereafter both. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

had a very high level of intellect and wisdom. He would perceive future events before the time. He had great expertise in recognizing truth and lies. Examples of his bravery, humbleness and simplicity, courage and heroism, morale and steadfastness, honesty and sincerity, intelligence, wisdom and tolerance are still found in the history books. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also had human desires, but his glory and greatness was such that neither did he ever commit any bad act out of the intensity of hunger, nor satisfied his desires of Nafs, nor ever he crossed moderation out of anger and nor he remained heedless of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in joy. He adopted all of his habits as per Sunnah. In short, in conversation and character he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the real practising Muslim.

Finally, one of the wicked disbelievers named Abu Lulu Feeroz (a fire worshipper) attacked Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with a dagger during Salat-ul-Fajr. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ succumbed to the fatal injury and embraced martyrdom on the third day of the attack. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was 63 at the time of martyrdom. Sayyiduna Suhayb رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led his funeral Salah. On Sunday, the 1 st of Muharram-ul-Haraam, 24 Hijri, this great companion of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was laid to rest beside Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who has been resting beside the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah fi Manaqib Al-Asharah, vol. 1, pp. 285, 408, 418)

شہادت اے خُدا عطاؔر کو دیدے مدینے میں

کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروق ِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Farooq-e-A’zam’s fear of Allah

Dear Islamic brothers! In addition to countless attributes, Sayyiduna Farooq-e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and adopted piety and abstinent. His admonitory conversation used to be full of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . At times, he was so much overcome with fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that due to the fear of the accountability of the grave and the Judgement Day he would desire: I wish I

could be the fat-tailed sheep of my family which they would feed a lot until I would become very fat. Then their dear friends would become their guests and they would slaughter me for them. They then would roast my meat; some meat would be eaten after cutting into small pieces! I wish I were not a human! (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 485, Hadees 787)

Once he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked up a lump of earth from the ground and said, ‘I wish that I could be the lump of earth! I wish that my mother had not given birth to me! I wish I could be nothing! I wish that I could be a forgotten thing! (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 8, pp. 152, Hadees 39)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the fear of the Hidden Plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is wishing humbly that he could become a fat-tailed sheep and a lump of earth because earth and animal do not have the fear of bad end. They will not face the agonies of death throes, terrors of grave and the punishments of the Hell. Just ponder, despite being absolutely blessed with Paradise when Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has fear of the Hidden Plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so how much fear we should have of the Hidden Plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and till what extent should we be worried for the safety of our faith. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Islamic scholars said: There is a great danger of losing faith at the time of death throes for the one who does not have fear of losing faith in his life. That’s why laying stress on having fear of Himself and remaining steadfast on Islam until the last breath Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in Ayah 102 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ حَقَّ تُقٰتِهٖ وَ لَا تَمُوْتُنَّ اِلَّا وَ اَنْتُمْ مُّسْلِمُوْنَ(۱۰۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Fear Allah as He should be rightfully feared, and never die but as Muslims.

Regarding this blessed Ayah the renowned commentator of Quran Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: From this [Ayah] it has become obvious that to die in faith is the main criterion, if he remains a true believer

throughout his life and at the time of his death he becomes unbeliever, he is like a real unbeliever. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to have good death!

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors used to weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . They used to fear His Hidden Plan and be worried for the safety of their faith. Undoubtedly, they used to take care of their faith in a proper way. They had absolute belief in the saying of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘ اِنَّمَاالْاَعْمَالُ بِالْخَوَاتِیْم ’ i.e. deeds depend upon the end . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 6607) That’s why they used to be worried day and night lest they should lose their faith. If faith is intact, only then we will enjoy in the Hereafter, but if the faith is lost, all the deeds will be destroyed and we will have to face disgrace in both the worlds. Therefore, instead of being deceived by this immortal world and spending precious time in the useless activities or rather spending it in impermissible and Haraam acts, we should make efforts to protect our faith following in the footsteps of the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We should repent whether we are sitting or standing or walking and should try to protect our inside and outside from sins. We should perform every deed for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and fear His Hidden Plan all the time. Despite being absolutely blessed with Paradise Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would have great fear of the Hidden Plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Fear of Hidden Plan

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave him the glad tidings of being blessed with Paradise, instead of this he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked a question from the confidant blessed companion, (Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the mischiefs and hypocrites: O Huzayfah! Is my name also amongst hypocrites? Sayyiduna Huzayfah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You are not amongst them.

Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was afraid that his Nafs might make conditions doubtful and conceal his faults from him. So fearful was he about it that he considered the glad tidings given to him by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be conditional on some such conditions which were not found in him. Therefore he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not let himself stress-free with this glad tidings.

Due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sometimes would bring small children by holding their hands and say to them: ‘ اُدْعُ لِیْ فَاِنَّکَ لَمْ تَذْنَبْ بَعْدُ ’ i.e. make Du’a for me because you have not committed sins yet .

(Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 1, pp. 166)

Dear Islamic brothers! This state of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is a cause for serious concern! We are spending our day and night heedlessly. We have no fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and are not pious and abstinent. We don’t have any good deeds, but lots of sins and have no tension for our Hereafter. However, a Muslim should love his Hereafter most. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to think about our Hereafter!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

یا مُصطفٰے! گُناہوں کی عادَتیں نکالو جذبہ مجھے عَطا ہو سُنَّت کی پَیروی کا

اِیماں پہ ربِّ رَحمت دیدے تُو اِستقامت دیتا ہوں واسِطہ میں تجھ کو تِرے نبی کا

کچھ نیکیاں کَما لے جَلد آخِرت بنا لے کوئی نہیں بھروسا اے بھائی! زِندَگی کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayings of companions on Farooq-e-A’zam’s fear of Allah

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely when a person develops the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he starts performing good deeds day and night. He spends day and night worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Instead of trusting the mortal life of this world he prefers the immortal life. An Allah-fearing person spends his entire life preparing for the grave and the Hereafter by obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, weeping out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and becoming pious and abstinent. His friends, relatives and the people who spend time in his company feel a kind of change in him. Many blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم also developed unanimous opinion about Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he was an extremely

pious and Allah-fearing man. He used to have dislike for the world. Let’s listen to some sayings of blessed companions about him:

1. Sayyiduna Talhah Bin ‘Ubaydullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

مَا كَانَ عُمَرُ بْنُ الْخَطَّابِ بِاَوَّلِنَا اِسْلَاماً وَلَا اَقْدَمِنَا ھِجْرَةً وَلٰكِنَّہُ كَانَ اَزْھَدَنَا فِی الدُّنْیَا وَاَرْغَبَنَا فِی الْآخِرَۃِ

i.e. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ neither embraced Islam, nor migrated before us, but he disliked the world and longed for the Hereafter more than us. (Asad-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 4, pp. 167)

2. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

وَاللہِ مَا كَانَ عُمَرُ بِاَقْدَمِنَا ھِجْرَۃً وَقَدْ عَرَفْتُ بِاَیِّ شَیْءٍ فَضَّلَنَا كَانَ اَزْھَدَنَا فِی الدُّنْیَا

i.e. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not migrate before us, but I have understood this as to why he has surpassed us. It is because he was more righteous and pious than us. (Asad-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 4, pp. 167)

3. Sayyiduna Imam Ja’far Sadiq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ كَانَ اَكْثَرُ كَلَامِ عُمَرَ اَللہُ اَكْبَرُ ’ i.e. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would quite often say ‘ اَللہُ اَكْبَر ’. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 364)

4. Sayyiduna Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that while reciting invocation sometimes Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep so much that he would fall over losing consciousness and could not go out of his home for a day or two. People would come to inquire after his health. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 364, Hadees 2056)

بھٹک سکتا نہیں ہر گز کبھی وہ سیدھے رستے سے کرم جس بخت وَر پر ہو گیا فاروقِ اعظم کا

خدا کے فضل سے میں ہوں گدا فاروقِ اعظم کا خدا اُن کا محمد مصطفٰی فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

12 Madani activities – Acting on Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was such a pious and Allah-fearing person by virtue of whom we must have also made our mind to become pious, abstinent and Allah-fearing person. For this we need to have the company of such people in which we can become Allah-fearing, pious and abstinent. For this purpose, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is very effective. You also associate yourself with this Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessings of the company of devotees of Rasool, you will have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs.

One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs is to act upon Madani In’amaat by making accountability of your own deeds after filling out the boxes of Madani In’amaat booklet by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submit this booklet as soon as the month ends. Our pious predecessors not only made accountability of their deeds while pondering over the Hereafter, but they would also give the same mindset to other people. Muhammad Bin ‘Ali Kittaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Apparently you live in the world, but your heart should be occupied with [the preparation] for the Hereafter.

(Tabqat-us-Sufiyyah, pp. 283)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In this sinful era, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us Madani In’amaat, consisting of the ways to perform good deeds and abstain from sins in the form of a questionnaire in order to give us the mindset of the preparation for Hereafter. Therefore observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily, we should also fill out Madani In’amaat booklet and submit it on the 1 st of every Madani month to the responsible Islamic brother. We should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time.

By virtue of being associated with this Madani environment we will attain lots of goodness of the world and the Hereafter both. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of the Madani In’aam no. 22 ‘individual effort’ out of 72 Madani In’amaat of Islamic brothers.

Madani parable

A summary of what an Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) has related is as follows: Drowned in the sea of sins, I was wasting the ‘precious diamonds’ of my life in heedlessness. Chatting with my friends till late at night was my pastime. On 18 Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 1429 AH, 19 September 2008, we were having a get-together, gossiping and laughing as usual. Meanwhile, a lover of the Beloved Rasool who was affiliated with Dawat-e-Islami came and sat with us, greeting us with Salam. His arrival brought some seriousness in our gathering. He then presented us with very pleasant Madani pearls. We were all engrossed and enchanted by the way he guided us and by the words he used. After a while, he intended to leave but we requested: ‘Brother! Please sit with us for a little while and enlighten us about good things.’ Enthusiastic about conveying the call to righteousness, he accepted our request.

During the conversation, the topics of pondering over one’s afterlife and reforming the Ummah also came under discussion. The individual efforts made by this lover of the Beloved Rasool had a very profound impact on our hearts. The next night, we were once again sitting together, waiting for him. As expected, he came and invited us to go to Faizan-e-Madinah - the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami. Impressed by his character and manners, I could not decline his invitation, reaching the sacred atmosphere of Faizan-e-Madinah with him. The Madani environment that instils fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love for Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Muslims caused a Madani revolution in my heart as well. Thus, by the blessings of the individual efforts made by that lover of the Beloved Rasool, I was blessed with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah Dawat-e-Islami is not only persuading people to perform good deeds, but it is also serving Islam in more than 103 departments. One of these departments is Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys) and Madrasa-

tul-Madinah (for girls) for the education and learning [Tarbiyyat] for boys and girls. In these Madaris, the Holy Quran is taught and memorized with Tajweed and Qira`at. Its teaching and recitation, listening and making others listen are all acts of reward. One gets 10 virtues for reciting only one letter of the Holy Quran.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Holy Quran is a source of guidance for every Muslim. Acting upon it leads to success in both the worlds. But remember! In order to act upon it, it is essential to recite, learn and understand the Holy Quran correctly. Alas! Majority of us are gradually getting far away from its recitation, learning and understanding. We are not acting upon it. However about its education, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ ‘The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran, and teaches it to others.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Fadaail-ul-Quran, Hadees 5027)

About how much should one learn the Holy Quran, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned, ‘Learning as much Tajweed by virtue of which one can clearly and correctly differentiate between all letters (of Arabic alphabet) is Fard-e-‘Ayn (obligatory for each Muslim adult) and without this differentiation, Salah is absolutely invalid.’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 3, pp. 253)

We should also admit our children in Madrasa-tul-Madinah to provide them with Quranic education with Tajweed and Qira`at, to make them righteous by providing them moral education and to make them a continuous source of reward for us.

عطا ہو شوق مَولٰی مَدرَسے میں آنے جانے کا

خُدایا ذَوق دے قرآن پڑھنے کا پڑھانے کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What is fear of Allah called?

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is a very great blessing. Unless we get this great blessing we cannot get rid of sins and it is almost impossible to love virtuous deeds. Once we attain this great blessing, it will become easy for us to perform virtuous deeds and stay safe from sins. The fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which develops in the heart of a true believer protects him from sins and guides him to the right path of performing virtuous deeds. What is this great blessing? What is fear of Allah called? Let’s listen to something about it.

On page 26 of his excellent book ‘ Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e- Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: Fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ means that one should be scared of Allah’s Hidden Plan, His Bay-Niyazi (absolute self-reliance), His anger, His punishment, His torments, His wrath and the destruction of faith as a result of it, etc. At many places in the Holy Quran Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded true believers to adopt this sacred attribute: It is stated in Ayah 131 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5:

وَ لَقَدْ وَصَّیْنَا الَّذِیْنَ اُوْتُوا الْكِتٰبَ مِنْ قَبْلِكُمْ وَ اِیَّاكُمْ اَنِ اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَؕ- Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed We have emphasised to those who received the Books before you, and to you, that keep fearing Allah.

Similarly, it is stated in Ayah 70 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 22:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ وَ قُوْلُوْا قَوْلًا سَدِیْدًاۙ(۷۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O believers! Fear Allah, and talk straight.

It is stated in Ayah 175 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

وَ خَافُوْنِ اِنْ كُنْتُمْ مُّؤْمِنِیْنَ(۱۷۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And fear Me, if you are believers.

Persuading us after narrating this blessed Ayah, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: I wish that we could get rid of heedlessness for the sake of this blessed Ayah and be blessed with fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in a proper manner along with the hope for mercy! I wish that we could feel the instability of this world in a real manner; we could have the fear of bad end and the fear of the anger of our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I wish that we could have the fear of death throes, difficulties of death, status of our own body’s Ghusl (bath) and shrouding and burial, the darkness and the terror of grave, questions of Munkir and Nakeer, torments of grave, heat and nervousness of the Judgement Day, the terrors of Siraat bridge, summonses in the Divine court, calling to accounts for even small deeds in the plain of the Judgement Day, disgrace of our faults being exposed in front of everyone, horrible trumpeting of Hell, terrible punishments of Hell, delicateness of our soft bodies, deprival of great blessings of Paradise, etc.! I wish that this fear could become the source of guidance and mercy for us as in Ayah 154 of Surah Al-A’raf, part 9, it is stated:

هُدًى وَّ رَحْمَةٌ لِّلَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِرَبِّهِمْ یَرْهَبُوْنَ(۱۵۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Guidance and mercy for those who fear their Lord.

خدایا بُرے خاتمے سے بچالے گنہگار ہے جاں بَلَب یا الٰہی

نظر میں محمد کے جلوے بسے ہوں چلوں اس جہاں سے میں جب یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In addition to these blessed Ayahs, the persuasion of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has been made in many blessed Ahadees as well. Let’s listen to three sayings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم consisting of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When a tear wells up in the eyes of a true believer out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, though equal to the

head of a fly, and reaches the apparent part of his face, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him Haraam for Hell. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 490, Hadees 802)

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When the heart of a believer trembles with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his sins fall like the leaves from a dry tree. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 491 Hadees 803)

2. The Ghayb-knowing Rasool and Embodiment of Noor صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person who weeps out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not go to Hell at all until milk returns to the udder. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 490, Hadees 800)

مرے اَشک بہتے رہیں کاش ہر دم ترے خوف سے یا خدا یا الٰہی!

ترے خوف سے تیرے ڈر سے ہمیشہ میں تھر تھر رہوں کانپتا یا الٰہی!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also possess the good attributes like piety and abstinence and weep all the time out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and should remain busy with Divine Zikr. When Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would listen to the blessed Ayah about the torment from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, plain of Judgement Day and the conditions of Hell, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would start weeping.

Recite loudly Surah Bara`at!

It has been narrated that Sayyiduna ‘Uqbah Bin ‘Aamir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was one of them who used to recite the Holy Quran in a very beautiful voice. Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ told him: O Ibn-e-‘Aamir! Recite loudly Surah Bara`at to me today! When he started reciting it Sayyiduna ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wept abundantly. He then said: It is my presumption that this Ayah has just been revealed. (Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya, pp. 180, Hadees 76)

[People] Came to inquire after his health for a month

Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by a home of someone who was reciting Surah At-Toor. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stopped there and started listening to the recitation. When the person started reciting the blessed Ayah:

اِنَّ عَذَابَ رَبِّكَ لَوَاقِعٌۙ(۷) مَّا لَهٗ مِنْ دَافِعٍۙ(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed your Lord’s punishment is definitely to take place. There is no one to avert it. (Part 27, At-Toor, Ayah 7, 8)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ got off his donkey and stood leaning against a wall and kept pondering over these Ayah for a long time. Afterwards, he went back to his home and remained ill for a month. People would come to inquire after his health, but no one could know the reason for his illness. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 226)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also recite the Holy Quran daily with its translation and commentary. Acting upon the life of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and reading about torments in blessed Ayah we should try to weep. If we are unable to weep, we should make our faces as if we were weeping.

But remember! After reading or listening to the reality of the grave, Hereafter and the Judgement Day releasing a heavy sigh, shaking head few times, or feeling sad or shedding some tears out of their terror are not sufficient, but rather, besides them, the act of giving up sins and obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by means of carrying out practical requirements of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are also very important for the salvation in the Hereafter.

We should make self-accountability and think as to how many breathes we have taken and how many days of our life we have spent in this mortal world. How many stages of life have we passed through our childhood, youth and old age? And during this, how many times have we felt these great blessings in our hearts? Have we ever trembled with fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Have tears ever come in our eyes out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Have our steps ever got back which we took to commit a sin after thinking about the punishment

given for the sin? Have we ever spent a night in our entire life worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ out of the fear of the punishment from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Have we ever got frightened of sins by thinking about the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Has any change occurred in our hearts due to the desire of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?

If the answers to the abovementioned questions are in the affirmative, then think carefully: Have we been privileged to act upon the practical requirements of fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after getting into these states or we have merely become satisfied that we are amongst those who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when we get into these states.

If the answers to these questions are in the negative, then just ponder lest our heart become very hard due to committing sins abundantly and we are still unaware of these states because of its hardness. If there is something like this, so it is a matter of great concern because this hardness of the heart and negligence caused by it might throw us into the depths of the Hell. (وَالۡعِيَاذُ بِاللّٰه)

Effect of bad and good company

Dear Islamic brothers! Good company is very necessary for us to develop the true fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart. Because good company leads a man to perform good deeds, whereas bad company leads him to commit more and more sins. Alas! Today we do not abandon the company of bad friends and spend our precious time with friends in useless talks, fun, joy and non-serious activities. Remember! A bad friend can be a disaster for our faith. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person follows the religion of his friend; he should see who he befriends. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 168, Hadees 8034)

Regarding this blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Before befriending a person test him if he obeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Pious Sufis have said that human nature has the quality of receiving. By the company of a greedy person, greed will be attained and by the company of a pious person, piety will be attained. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 599)

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was himself Allah-fearing, that’s why those who attained blessing from his blessed company also became the embodiments of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Sayyiduna Miswar Bin Makhramah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: ‘ كُنَّا نَلْزَمُ عُمَرَ بْنَ الْخَطَّابِ نَتَعَلَّمُ مِنْہُ الْوَرَعَ ’ i.e. We used to live with Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ so that we could learn piety and abstinence. (Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 220)

The way he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was himself pious and abstinent, similarly he would advise others to become pious and abstinent. Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Ja’dah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by Sayyiduna Saamir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said after greeting him: ‘ وَ الَّذِیْ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّاھُوَ مَا مِنْ اِلٰہٍ اِلَّا اللہُ وَاُوْصِیْكُمْ بِتَقْوَى اللہِ ’ i.e. by Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is no one but Him worthy to be worshipped! There is no one but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to be worshipped and I advise you to fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musannaf ‘Abdur Razzaq, vol. 1, pp. 414, Hadees 2137)

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘ كَرَمُ الْمُؤْمِنِ تَقْوَاہُ ’ i.e. the honour of a true believer is his piety and abstinence. (Jami’-ul-Usool, vol. 11, pp. 654) This saying of his indicates the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the Holy Quran:

اِنَّ اَكْرَمَكُمْ عِنْدَ اللّٰهِ اَتْقٰىكُمْؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the most honourable amongst you, in the sight of Allah, is one who is most pious amongst you.

(Part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, Ayah 13)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to attain the beautiful attributes like the worship he performed, his piety and abstinence, and his weeping out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by following in the footsteps of the blessed life of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard about the 2 nd caliph, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab’s fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the embodiment of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ most of the time.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a real worshipper.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained pious and had dislike for the world throughout his life.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would quite often weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ It was the state of his fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that he wished he had not been born in this world.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would also give Dars of piety and abstinence to others.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would listen to the things consisting of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from others.

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was so pious that those who would remain in his company would also become the embodiment of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would ask children to make Du’a for himself. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would always fear Allah’s Hidden Plan.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to follow in his footsteps!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Zulfayn

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed Sunnah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم always had full hair on his blessed head, sometimes to the half of ears, sometimes to the earlobes and sometimes blessed hair would grow long enough to touch his blessed shoulders.

1. If you are willing, you may keep hair to half of your ears as Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had the blessed hair reaching half of his blessed ears.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi; Ash-Shumaail, vol. 5, pp. 507, Hadees 24)

2. If you are willing, you may keep the hair to your full ears, as Sayyiduna Bara Bin ‘Aazib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a medium height, there was a distance between his blessed shoulders and his blessed hair would reach his blessed ears. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 17, Hadees 3)

3. If you want, you may grow the hair up to the shoulders, as mother of believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had blessed hair little down to earlobes and would reach blessed shoulders. (Ibid, pp. 35, Hadees 25)

1. It is Sunnah to part the hair in the middle of the head. It is stated on page 587, volume 3, part: 16 of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Some people part their hair in the left or right side which is against Sunnah.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

