اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Parables of Allah-loving People

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said,

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃً لَہ ُ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

‘The one who recites Salat upon me on Friday, I will intercede for him on the Judgement Day.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّ م has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه  ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In today’s weekly Bayan, let’s listen to the parables about Allah-loving people and Madani pearls about them.

Spiritual conversation of a worshipper

On page 211 of ‘ Hikayatayn or Naseehatayn ’, a published book of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is stated: Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I was strolling on a mountain. While strolling I passed through a valley that had many trees, plants and fruits. I started pondering over the greatness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and beauty of the things which He created. Suddenly I heard a voice that moved me to tears and increased my devotion. I went after the voice and reached the lower part of the mountain near a cave. The voice was coming from [inside] the cave. I went inside the cave and found a worshipper who was very weak but looking blessed. I heard him saying: Pure is He Who has made the hearts of devotees alive in His court through Du’as; now they only trust in Him and He has chosen them for His love so now they only wish for Him. When he felt my presence, I said: ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ ’! He replied: ‘ وَعَلَیْکَ السَّلَام ’. He asked me: Who told you the address of the person that has been away from people by the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and who could not have good conversation due to the accountability of his Nafs? I replied: I have come to you due to the curiosity of knowing something about pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . He said: O young man! Undoubtedly, there are some bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whose real love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has impact on their hearts. Due to their having great love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ their souls go around in the world of angels and see the great treasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes them observe His beauty. They see it in a way that their hearts are filled with His [Allah’s] love and their souls keep flying to meet Him. They are the kings of the world and the Hereafter. He then started weeping and made the Du’a: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Also enable me to perform the deeds like these blessed saints and also join me with them. He then cried loudly and fell onto the ground and then passed away. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! These are the attributes of Allah-fearing people and the signs of those who recognize Him.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In Ayah 165 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2, it is stated:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَشَدُّ حُبًّا لِّلّٰهِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And for the believers, no one’s love is equal to the love of Allah (Parah. 2, Surah Baqarah, Aayat. 165)

About the above-mentioned blessed Ayah it is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 1, page 264: The beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ love Allah more than all creatures. Living and dying for the love of Allah Almighty is the aim of their lives.

All the following acts such as preferring the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to every pleasure of ours, instead of sleeping in soft beds performing Sajdah to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, weeping by remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having thirst for attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, performing worship in the long winter nights and keeping Siyam in the long summer days, having love and enmity for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, giving someone something and stopping something from someone for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being grateful for His blessings, being patient upon distress, having trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every circumstance, leaving every matter to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being ready all the time to act upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping the heart free from being devoted to anyone else, being obedient to the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, showing true devotion to Allah’s most Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the bottom of the heart, reciting the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and hundreds of acts other than these are such which are the evidence and requisites for Divine love. (Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, pp. 264)

Dear Islamic sisters! These are the requisites of having love for Allah Almighty. If someone claims to have Divine love, how should she spend her days and nights? Her head should be bowed in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; she should keep on weeping in the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; heart should be restless for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; she should spend her days in observing Sawm and nights in performing worship.

Dear Islamic sisters! Surely we should also try to develop Divine love. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to His Nabi Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O Dawood (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)! If you want to love Me, dispel the love of the world from your heart because love for Me and for the world cannot gather in one heart. O Dawood! Whoever loves Me offers Tahajjud in the night for Me while people are sleeping; he remembers Me in private when heedless people remain heedless of My Zikr [remembrance]; he thanks for My blessing whereas those - who forget - forget Me. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 8, pp. 211, Raqm 11906)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of blessed saints! Now let’s listen to some more parables about the pious bondmen who would love Allah Almighty.

Ram hide

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ coming in the state that a ram hide was wrapped around his back, so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Look at the person whose heart Allah Almighty has illuminated. Undoubtedly, I saw him with his parents who would give him best food and excellent Sharbat (soft-drink) to drink. He has got into this state by virtue of the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) which you can see. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 153, Hadees 343)

Devotee will be with his beloved

A Bedouin came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! When will be the Judgement Day? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: What preparations have you made for it? He humbly replied: For it I have not accumulated too many [Nafl] Salah and [Nafl] Siyam, however, I love Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him: ‘ اَلْمَرْءُ مَعَ مَنْ اَحَبَّ ’ i.e. A person will be with the one whom he loves. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 172, Hadees 2392)

(The blessed companion who has narrated this blessed Hadees) Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Since I embraced Islam, I have not seen Muslims feeling so much happy for any other thing, but this. (Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 4, pp. 398, Hadees 13066)

You are pious

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام passed by three men whose bodies were weak and colour was changed. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: What has brought you to this state? They humbly replied: Fear of the fire of Hell. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: It is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to protect Allah-fearing people from the Hell. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then passed by three other people who were weaker than the previous ones and their colour was changed more than them. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked them: What has brought you to this state? They replied: Yearning for Paradise. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: It is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to bestow the thing upon you which you desire. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then passed by three other people who were weaker and their colour changed more than the previous both groups and their faces were like the mirrors of Noor. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said to them: What has brought you to this state? They replied: We love Allah Almighty. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said three times: You also have more closeness to Allah Almighty.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Just ponder! This is the state of Allah-loving people when they are in Divine love! These great personages greatly take care of the rights of Allah Almighty and His bondmen. They greatly love virtuous deeds and hate sins. Abundance of Divine worship weakens them and changes their colour. On the other hand, today, a large number of people have become non-practising. They neither take care of the rights of people, nor have any sense of guilt for the violation of the Rights of Allah Almighty. For Nafs, performing good deeds has become very difficult, whereas committing sins has become very easy. Overcrowded places of entertainment are deeply hurting the feelings of sincere and true Muslims. The people who misuse TV, internet and social media are not less in number. The excessive struggle for the fulfilment of needs and attainment of facilities has made vast majority of Muslims utterly heedless of their Hereafter.

Countless sins are fearlessly committed in our society like swearing, slandering, having low opinion for someone, backbiting, tale-telling, finding faults with others, disclosing the faults of others, lying, making false promises, defrauding, causing anyone pain without a Shar’i reason, not paying off debt, not returning the temporary borrowed thing of someone, calling Muslims with bad names, using someone’s possession without her permission despite her resenting it, watching movies and dramas, listening to songs and music, giving and taking interest and bribes, disobeying and troubling parents, misappropriation of trust [Amanat], unlawful gazing, women adopting masculine styles, women’s act of un-veiling, arrogance, jealousy, showing off, bearing enmity and hatred towards any Islamic sister, going beyond the bounds of Shari’ah in anger, greed for sins, being stingy, considering yourself to be better, etc. Despite this we are in the vain hope that we have true love and devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Just ponder! Are these the speaking styles, life styles and characters of the one who has true love for Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? May we also be blessed for the Sadqah of those who have true Divine love! May we also become the ones who follow in the footsteps of these blessed personages and acting upon the Madani In’aam offer all Salahs. May we become the ones who observe Nafl Siyam along with the Fard Siyam of sacred Ramadan! May we always speak the truth, become well-mannered and fulfil the rights of parents and other relatives! May we do not go even near the sins and miss any of our Salah! May we do not miss any Sawm of Ramadan! May we not tell lies, commit backbiting, tale-telling and abuse any one at all! May we be blessed with the real love and sympathy for Muslims for the sake of Allah Almighty and may we get rid of backbiting!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم for Divine love

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to attain the real love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we should also follow the blessed life of Allah-loving people. In addition, we should also make Du’a for Divine love. Despite worshiping too much, having Divine love and being a great Nabi of Allah Almighty Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would ask Allah Almighty for His love.

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Hadrat Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would make this Du’a: اَللّٰہُمَّ اِنِّیْ اَسْئَلُکَ حُبَّکَ وَحُبَّ مَنْ یُّحِبُّکَ وَالْعَمَلِ الَّذِیْ یُبَلِّغُنِیْ حُبَّک ’ i.e. O Allah Almighty! I ask You for Your love, the love of Your beloved ones, and for the deeds which lead me to Your love. ‘ اَللّٰہُمَّ اجْعَلْ حُبَّکَ اَحَبَّ اِلَیَّ مِنْ نَفْسِیْ وَمَالِیْ وَاَہْلِیْ وَمِنَ الْمَاءِ الْبَارِدِ ’ i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make Your love dearer to me than my life and wealth, family members and cold water.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 465, Hadees 2496)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard! The beloved Nabi of Allah Almighty Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His love, therefore we should also make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His love. Believe me! Divine love is such a great blessing which if someone gets, she will be blessed with the pleasure of worship and sweetness of faith.

Sweetness of faith

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ ثَلاَثٌ مَنْ کُنَّ فِیْہِ وَجَدَ بِہِنَّ حَلَاوَۃَ اْلاِیْمَانِ ’ i.e. the person who has three habits will attain the sweetness of faith through them. (1) ‘ اَنْ یَّکُوْنَ اللّٰہُ وَرَسُوْلُہُ اَحَبَّ اِلَیْہِ مِمَّا سِوَاہُمَا ’ He loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the most. (2) ‘ وَاَنْ یُّحِبَّ الْمَرْءَ لَا یُحِبُّہٗ اِلَّا لِلّٰہِ ’, If he loves someone, he loves for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. (3) ‘ وَاَنْ یَّکْرَہَ اَنْ یَّعُوْدَ فِی الْکُفْرِ کَمَا یَکْرَہُ اَنْ یُوْقَدَ لَہٗ نَارٌ فَیُقْذَفَ فِیْہَا ’ He hates Kufr as much as a person hates to be thrown into blazing fire.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 364, Hadees 405)

Dear Islamic sisters! You must have heard that loving Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than everything of the universe and loving or hating someone else mainly for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are great blessings for a Muslim. If someone gets these blessings, she is blessed with the real sweetness of faith. Rather the fact is that the fortunate Muslims who instead of their personal benefits and worldly purpose, are on good terms with each other and are devoted to each other only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they not only get the sweetness of faith, but Allah Almighty is also pleased with them, loves them and will bestow very great status upon them on the Judgement Day. Let’s listen to more narrations about it.

One who becomes beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!

Sayyiduna Laahiq Bin Hameed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna Qays Bin ‘Ubbad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A person went to meet his brother for the sake of Allah Almighty. On the way, he met an unknown person who asked him where he was going. He replied that he was going to meet so-and-so [person]. The unknown person asked: Are you going to meet him because there is any relationship between you and him? He replied in the negative. He asked: Are you going to return the favour which he has done to you? He replied in the negative and said: I only love him for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. The unknown person said: Allah Almighty has sent me to you so that I tell you that Allah Almighty loves you because you love a Muslim for His [Allah’s] pleasure. (Allah Walon ki Baatayn, vol. 3, pp. 164)

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, there are some people who are neither Ambiya nor martyrs but, on the Day of Judgement, even blessed Ambiya عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and martyrs will envy (رشک) them seeing their status in the court of Allah Almighty. People humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Tell us who those people will be.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: They will be the people who would have devotion for each other out of the love for Allah Almighty though they will not be the relatives of each other nor will there be any business dealing between them. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! [On the Day of Judgement,] Their faces will be Noor-like; surely they will be

on Noor. They will be fearless when all people will be fearful, and they will feel no grief when people will feel grief. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 219, Hadees 5012)

Similarly, it has been stated in another narration: They will belong to different cities and tribes and will have no relationship with each other. They will love and have friendship with each other only for the sake of Allah Almighty. On the Judgement Day, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will lay the pulpits of Noor and will sit them on them [pulpits]. Their faces and clothes will be of Noor. On the Judgement Day, people will be frightened, but they would not be fearful.

(Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 450, Hadees 22969)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed! Allah Almighty will bestow great glory and greatness upon the ones who love Him [Allah Almighty] and who love others for His [Allah’s] pleasure. On the Day of Judgement, when there will be a state of utter selfishness, people will be worried, but those fortunate people will have no grief and worry and they will be warmly welcomed. For them Allah Almighty will place a throne [made] of Noor and will sit them on the seat of respect.

Therefore, we should also develop the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for Divine pleasure and should make their pleasure the principle for our friendship and enmity. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for this purpose, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is the best source. In this Madani environment, not only is the love of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم developed, but also the Madani mind-set to have friendship with the pious people of Allah Almighty is given. By virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment, the passion of devotion and sympathy is developed for Muslims and the curiosity of reforming the Muslims of the entire world along with one’s own personal reformation is developed for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, you also stay associated with this Madani environment all the time and participate practically in the 8 Madani activities in order to develop Divine love further, propagate Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, protect yourself and other Muslims from sins and guide them to the virtuous path.

One of the 8 Madani activities – “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima”

Dear Islamic sisters! One of the 8 Zayli Halqahs Madani activities is the “Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there are hundreds of benefits in this life along with the next life if this Madani activity is carried out. For example:

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat you can publicise the Sunnah of meeting and greeting Muslims.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat valuable Madani pearls packed with religious knowledge can be transmitted to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat tremendously contribute to help make Muslims punctual in their Salah who otherwise are not punctual.

٭ Due to the blessing of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat we publicise the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and increase the number of its admirers.

٭ Prayers are accepted in weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat.

٭ Along with all these benefits you will hear Sunnah-inspiring speeches regarding the awesome biographies of the Illustrious Sahabah Kiraam رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and honourable saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

Domestic quarrels came to an end

An Islamic sister from Babul Madinah (Karachi) had domestic quarrels at home. Quarrels would continue quite often due to which there had been no peace of mind in the home. She was very worried because of this situation. She could not find any way through which peace could be established in the home. In the meantime, by the kind attention of Peer-o-Murshid Ameer Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ a thought entered her mind that she should read Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah. She started reading the Shajarah with the intention to overcome domestic quarrels. By virtue of the blessing of reading Shajarah, Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah,

Attariyyah their domestic quarrels came to an end and the home became peaceful.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic sisters! A Muslim should love Allah Almighty more than anything because therein lies the sign and sweetness of faith. Surely, every one of us claims, ‘I love my Lord [Allah Almighty] very much’, but unfortunately our deeds are contrary to it, that is, our character is totally denying this claim of ours. Through our practical condition it seems that we are not devoted to our Creator even as much as we are devoted to people. A wise person has said: Busy yourself in carrying out the good acts; otherwise you will get indulged in bad acts. Unfortunately, nowadays a large number of people have busied themselves in the bad acts in such a way that they do not pay any attention to the good acts. People have started getting worried for this world in a way that they have stopped worrying about the Hereafter; they have fallen into the love of wealth in a way that they have become totally heedless of the accountability which will be made on the Day of Judgement; they have fallen into the love of creation in a way that they have forgotten to remember Allah Almighty; they have fallen into the love of sins in a way that they have forgotten to repent; they have started getting worried to have splendid houses constructed in a way that they have stopped paying attention to make the Hereafter better.

Just ponder for a while! What we had to do and what we are doing! Ponder! Isn’t it the age about which our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم warned us by giving us the news centuries ago!

Desire for five and heedlessness of five

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

(سَيَأۡتِيۡ زَمَانٌ عَلٰي اُمَّتِيۡ يُحِبُّوۡنَ خَمۡسًا وَّ يَنۡسَوۡنَ خَمۡسًا)

An era will soon come upon my Ummah when they will love five and will forget five:

1. (يُحِبُّوۡنَ الدُّنۡيَا وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡاٰخِرَةَ): They will love the world and will forget the Hereafter.

2. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡمَالَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡحِسَابَ): They will love wealth and will forget [the Hereafter’s] accountability.

3. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡخَلۡقَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡخَالِقَ): They will love creation and will forget the Creator.

4. (َ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡذُّنُوۡبَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ التَّوۡبَةَ) They will love sins and will forget repentance.

5. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡقُصُوۡرَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡمَقۡبَرَةَ): They will love palaces and will forget the graveyard.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 34)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

7 Signs of Divine love

Dear Islamic sisters! For developing Divine love, let’s listen to seven signs of ‘Divine love’ in the light of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees and sayings of pious personages:

1. Reciting Glorious Quran, reading its translation and commentary, and understanding it are the signs of Divine love. When pious people of Allah Almighty listen to His Kalam and ponder over it, tears start streaming from their eyes. In Ayah 83 of Surah Al-Ma’idah, part 7, Allah Almighty has stated:

وَ اِذَا سَمِعُوْا مَاۤ اُنْزِلَ اِلَى الرَّسُوْلِ تَرٰۤى اَعْیُنَهُمْ تَفِیْضُ مِنَ الدَّمْعِ مِمَّا عَرَفُوْا مِنَ الْحَقِّۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when they hear to what has come down to the Messenger (Rasool Muhammad), you see their eyes overflowing with tears because they have recognised the truth. (Part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 83)

Sayyiduna Sahl bin Abdullah Tustari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Having love for Allah Almighty is to love the Holy Quran; the sign of having love for Allah Almighty and the Holy Quran is to love the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sign of having love for Sunnah is to love the Hereafter.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 71)

2 . Another sign of having Divine love is to perform Nawafil [supererogatory acts] along with Faraaid [obligatory acts].

Source of Divine closeness

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Allah Almighty has said, ‘Whoever bears enmity to any of my Wali [saint], I declare war against him. My bondman does not attain so much of My closeness by means of any other thing as much he attains from Faraaid [obligatory acts]. My bondman always continues to attain closeness by means of Nawafil [supererogatory acts] until I love him. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

3 . A sign of Divine love is to remain busy with the Zikr of Allah Almighty. It is also a source of attaining the Divine love. Allah Almighty has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اذْكُرُوا اللّٰهَ ذِكْرًا كَثِیْرًاۙ(۴۱) وَّ سَبِّحُوْهُ بُكْرَةً وَّ اَصِیْلًا(۴۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Believers! Remember Allah abundantly. And Glorify Him, morning and evening. (Part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah, 41, 42)

Sayyiduna Abul Hasan Zanjaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Worship is based on 3 things: ‘eye’, ‘heart’ and ‘tongue’. Eye should be for admonition, heart for contemplation and the tongue should be the centre of truth and for the Zikr (remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and Tasbih. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 71)

Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw ground Sattu with Sayyiduna Shaykh Jurjaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and asked: Why don’t you eat anything except Sattu (grain parched and coarsely ground and drunk with water and sugar). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: In comparison to chewing food and drinking Sattu, I

have observed the difference of 70 Tasbihat (i.e., the time consumed in drinking Sattu is shorter to eating food to the extent that I can recite 70 Tasbihat in that duration). I have not eaten roti (bread) for 40 years so that I do not lose time for these Tasbihat. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 72)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

4 . Another sign of Divine love is to sacrifice your choice for the pleasure of Allah Almighty despite having the desires of Nafs.

Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Worshipping Allah Almighty is the name of three things: (1) ‘Abiding by the laws of Shar’iah’ (2) ‘being content with the decisions and division made by Allah Almighty and (3) ‘sacrificing the desires of your Nafs for the pleasure of Allah Almighty.’ (Baytay ko Naseehat, pp. 37)

Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say: My Nafs has had the desire to eat honey for 40 years, but I have not fulfilled its desire yet. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 163)

5 . Another sign of Divine love is to keep your heart totally submitted in the blessed court of Allah Almighty after having removed the love for the world from it.

It has been narrated: Allah Almighty sent revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O Isa! When the heart of a bondman becomes free and clean from the love of the world and the Hereafter, I fill it with My love.

6 . Another sign of Divine love is to refrain from all the acts which become obstacle in the way of attaining the closeness to Allah Almighty.

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Another sign of the one who loves Allah Almighty is that he gives up every such thing that makes him heedless of the Zikr [remembrance] of Allah Almighty and keeps himself busy performing the acts which please Allah Almighty. (Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer, pp. 78)

7 . Another sign of Divine love is to follow in the footsteps of the pious people - who have true love for Allah Almighty - and to have the company of pious Islamic sisters.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: One should always have the company that develops the yearning for worship and enthusiasm for acting upon blessed Sunnah. A friend Islamic sister should be the one who makes you remember Allah Almighty when you see her, whose conversation encourages you to perform virtuous deeds, reduces love for the world and increases love for the Hereafter. We should avoid the company of those who carry out non-serious activities and love fashion.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic sisters! For increasing Divine love, attaining Divine pleasure, developing fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart, increasing the enthusiasm to protect faith, frightening yourself to the torment of grave and Hell, giving up the habit of committing sins, making yourself acting upon Sunnah regularly, developing the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart and increasing yearning for becoming the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus it is quite necessary to have good environment because under such terrible condition of our today’s society, many people are committing sins abundantly. In this deteriorating situation, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is not less than any great blessing, so you should also keep associated with this Madani environment all the time.

Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is promoting the message of Islam throughout the world in approximately 107 various departments, one of them is ‘Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb’. The aims of this Majlis include:

٭ Re-motivate senior Islamic sisters who once were practically involved in Madani activities but not anymore and once again encourage them to be active in the Madani environment.

٭ Taking their prior appointment and visiting them personally at their homes.

٭ Humbly motivating them to attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat.

٭ Persuading them to join Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan.

٭ Complimenting them in times of happiness and offering condolences in sadness, sickness, demises etc.

٭ Arranging letters and Ta’wizaat ‘Attariyyah for them in their difficult times.

May our Beloved Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow further progress and prosperity to our ‘Majlis Izdiyaad-e-Hubb’.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Madani pearls about good company

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about good company. First of all, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَلْمَرْءُ مَعَ مَنْ اَحَبَّ ’ A person will be with the one who he loves. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1088, Hadees 6718)

2 . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person is on the lifestyle of his friend; so every one of you should see who he is making a friendship with. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, vol. 4, pp. 167, Hadees 2385)

٭ A good companion is the one whose sight reminds you of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whose speech increases your (good) deed and whose deed reminds you of the Hereafter.’ (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 2, pp. 247, Hadees 4063)

٭ Remember! We should only have good company and keep ourselves away from bad people. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The example of a good and bad companion is like the one who carries Musk (i.e. Kastoori) and the one who blows the bellows into furnace. The one who carries musk will either gift you or you will buy from him or you will have pleasant fragrance from him, whereas the one who blows the bellows into furnace either will burn your clothes or you will have unpleasant smell from him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1414, Hadees 2628)

٭ Every company surely has its influence. For example if you meet an Islamic sister whose eyes are filled with tears and signs of sorrow are evident on her face due to the death of her dear one, so by seeing her in this state you may also feel sad for a while. Moreover, if you sit with any such Islamic sister whose face is lighting up with pleasure due to a success, who is smiling and her blissful talk is showing gladness then you will also become happy for some time inadvertently.

٭ A blessed Hadees says: Sayyiduna Abu Razeen رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْـهُ has narrated that the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him, ‘Should I not guide you about the essence of the thing by which you get the goodness of the world and the Hereafter? (That essential thing is) you attend the gathering of those who make Zikr.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 492, Hadees 9024)

Dear Islamic sisters! As a matter of fact, we should associate ourselves with good environment for the good of the world and the Hereafter and have the company of righteous people and establish friendship with them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

