اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Maula ‘Ali Mushkil Kusha

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me on the day of Friday, I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2236)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Bayan of Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ we are going to listen to the virtues and blessings of the great personality who has attained great status and rank for the sake of our

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That great personality is the fourth caliph, the door of the city of knowledge, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada Shayr-e-Khuda کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم . Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about his glory and greatness.

Paralytic person recovered

Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was present in the blessed Haram of Ka’bah with both of his sons Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Husayn رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . Noticing that a person was making Du’a in tears for his need in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم ordered to bring the person to him. Since one side of his body was paralysed, he dragged his legs while walking and came to him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked what had happened to him. The person humbly replied, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I was extremely fearless in committing sins and my father, who was a righteous and pious Muslim, would repeatedly check me and prevent me from committing sins. One day my anger boiled up while he was advising me and I beat him. Due to being beaten by me, he grew sad and came to the Haram-e-Ka’bah and made Du’a against me. All of a sudden I was under his curse and one side of my body got paralyzed and I started walking by dragging my feet. This Ghaybi punishment taught me a good admonitory lesson and I apologized to my father in floods of tears. Overcame by fatherly love, he had pity on me and forgave me. He then said to me, ‘My son, accompany me! I will make Du’a for your health exactly at the same place where I had cursed you.’

Hence, we were coming to Makkah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا on a she-camel. On the way suddenly it got scared and ran amok and my father fell over between two rocks and passed away. Now I have come alone here [to Haram-e-Ka’bah] and make Du’a in tears all the time to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the recovery of my health. Having heard his sad story, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم had pity on him and said, ‘O person! If your father had really been pleased with you, be relaxed, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ everything will get better.’ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم then offered a few Rak’ats of Salah

and made Du’a for him and then said. ‘ قُمۡ!’ i.e. stand up! Listening to this he stood up without any trouble and started walking.

(Derived from: Hujjatullahi-‘alal-‘Aalameen, pp. 614)

کیوں نہ مُشکِل کُشا کہوں تم کو تم نے بِگڑی مِری بنائی ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned parable contains countless Madani pearls of admonition for us as to how terrible punishment that person incurred upon him due to disobedience to his parents and committing sins persistently that one side of his body was paralyzed and then he would drag his legs while walking. Further, it has also been understood that we should not disobey our parents and should carry out their orders immediately if they are within the boundaries of Shari’ah. We should also protect ourselves from their curse and abstain from every such act that incurs their displeasure. From this parable we have also learnt the saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم that when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Du’a for the person in Divine court, his blessed Du’a was answered immediately and the paralytic person, who was dragging his legs while walking, recovered on the spot by virtue of the blessings of the Du’a of Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and started walking without any trouble.

بے سبب بخشش ہو میری یہ دُعا فرمایئے

مُصطَفٰے کا واسِطہ مولٰی علی مُشکل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The virtues and miracles of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم are really great and beyond description. His blessed glory is unique and unparalleled. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a great leader, lover of Hereafter, beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the door of the city of Knowledge and an eloquent orator who had great expertise in extracting the rulings from the Holy Quran and Sunnah. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a (guiding) light for the

obedient and a friend for the pious, imam [leader] for those who promote justice and [the most outstanding quality is that] he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was very tolerant and learned.

In his booklet namely, ‘Karamaat-e-Shayr-e-Khuda’ Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given his introduction in the following way:

Name, lineage and blessed appearance

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born in Makka-tul-Mukarramah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا . His mother Sayyidatuna Fatimah Bint-e-Asad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا named him after her father’s name ‘Haydar’ whereas his father named him ‘Ali’. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed him with the title ‘Asadullah’ (the lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). In addition, other commendable names like, ‘Murtada’ (i.e. chosen), ‘Karraar’ (i.e. the one striking back repeatedly), ‘Shayr-e-Khuda’ and ‘Maula Mushkil-Kusha’ are his famous titles. He is the paternal cousin of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 412, etc.) The fourth caliph of Islam, the Janasheen of Rasool, the husband of Batool, the Kunyat of Sayyiduna ‘Ali Bin ‘Abi Taalib کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is ‘Abul-Hasan’ and ‘Abu Turaab’.

اس نے لقبِ خاک شہنشاہ سے پایا جو حیدرِ کرّار کہ مولٰی ہے ہمارا

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 32)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the son of the Beloved Rasool’s paternal uncle, Abu Taalib. After 30 years of ‘Aam-ul-Feel (when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was 30 years old), Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born on Friday, the 13 th of Rajab Al-Murajjab. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam when he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was only 10 years old and remained under the Tarbiyat (edification) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained busy supporting Islam and helping the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم throughout his life.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ enjoys a very distinguished reputation because of being amongst the ‘Muhajireen Awwaleen’ and the ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah’ and possesses many other special ranks. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took part with exceptional bravery in the battles of Badr, Uhud, and Khandaq and killed many renowned and brave warriors of unbelievers (Kuffar) through his massive strikes.

دُشمن کا زَور بڑھ چلا ہے یا علی مدد! اب ذُوالفِقارِ حَیدَری پھر بے نِیام ہو

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 310)

After the martyrdom of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ, the Ansaar and Muhajireen gave their (بیعت) vote of confidence to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم and elected him as the Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, who held the office of caliphate for 4 years, 8 months and 9 days. On the 17 th or 19 th of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, he رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ was seriously wounded by a murder attempt of an accursed person and on 21 st Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, in the night of Sunday, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed away as a martyr.

(Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 132)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was neither very tall nor very short, but rather he was of medium height. His eyes were big and blessed face was extremely beautiful like that of the full moon. There was a distance between both of his shoulders. His palms and bones of shoulders were heavy and his blessed neck was (beautiful) like the long-necked silver flask. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not have hair on the front part of his blessed head, but rather he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had hair on his back part of the head. His blessed beard was thick and each hair was naturally dark without a hair dye. His hands and arms were very strong. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 3, pp. 107 - 108)

Childhood of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

Dear Islamic brothers! If we have a look at the childhood of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, we find it matchless and unparalleled too. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained constantly in the blessed company of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from his childhood and received Tarbiyat. The Beloved Rasool رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ

bore his expenses. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam in his childhood; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took active part in presenting call towards righteousness at a very young age and the troubles which came across in this way became the part of his learning. Listen to one of the beautiful parts of his blessed childhood.

First food of Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

His mother, Sayyidatuna Fatimah Bint-e-Asad رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has stated: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم was born, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named him ‘Ali’, put his blessed saliva into his mouth and put his blessed tongue into his mouth for blessings and he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم fell asleep in the same state. Next day, we called a midwife to breastfeed him, but he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم did not take milk. When this news reached the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came and put his blessed tongue into Sayyiduna ‘Ali’s mouth; while gaining blessings from the blessed tongue he کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم fell asleep. Hence, it continued until Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ willed.

(As-Seerat-ul-Halbiyah, pp. 382)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the glory of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is bestowing his blessings upon him by putting his blessed tongue into his mouth! On different occasions, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also revealed blessed Ayahs to mention the greatness and glory of his رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ blessed personality.

Who is the Maula of believers?

In Ayah 4 of Surah At-Tahreem, part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

فَاِنَّ اللّٰهَ هُوَ مَوْلٰىهُ وَ جِبْرِیْلُ وَ صَالِحُ الْمُؤْمِنِیْنَۚ-وَ الْمَلٰٓىٕكَةُ بَعْدَ ذٰلِكَ ظَهِیْرٌ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is his helper, and Jibraeel, and the righteous believers and furthermore the angels are appointed as helpers.

(Part 28, Surah At-Tahreem, Ayah 4)

Regarding the exegesis of the abovementioned blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Sayyid Mahmood Aaloosi Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyidah Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Righteous believers mean Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم .

Similarly, Sayyiduna Abu Ja’far رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: When this blessed Ayah was revealed, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم held the hand of Sayyiduna Ali Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said: O people! He (i.e., Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم) is a righteous [believer] amongst believers. (Ruh-ul-Ma’ani, vol. 28, pp. 482)

Unique glory of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When wealthy people prolonged the act of asking questions in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and, as a result, the poor got little time to submit their request in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then Divine commandment of giving Sadaqah before submitting requests was revealed and Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم acted upon this commandment. He after paying 1 Dinar in Sadaqah asked about some rulings.

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘Ya Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ‘What is loyalty?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Tawheed (Oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and testifying the oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is a riot (فساد)?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Unbelief and Shirk.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is truth?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘When you get Islam, Quran and wilayat.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is compulsory for me?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked: ‘How should I make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘With absolute trust and belief.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What should I ask for?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘the Hereafter.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What should I do for my

salvation?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Eat Halal and speak the truth.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is pleasure?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Paradise.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked, ‘What is comfort?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ When Sayyiduna Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم finished his questions, the time of this commandment ended (منسوخ) and then everyone was allowed to ask questions without paying any Sadaqah. No one else except Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم got the time to act upon this blessed Ayah. (Tafseer Khazain-ul-‘Irfan)

The blessed Ayah is as follows:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اِذَا نَاجَیْتُمُ الرَّسُوْلَ فَقَدِّمُوْا بَیْنَ یَدَیْ نَجْوٰىكُمْ صَدَقَةًؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! When you wish to humbly consult with the Noble Messenger, give some charity before you consult. (Part 28, Surah Al-Mujadalah, Ayah 12)

Glory of Sayyiduna Ali in the light of blessed Ahadees

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard the glory and eminence of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم from the different blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran. Besides this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated his glory and eminence in many blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to some sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said to Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم: ‘ اَنۡتَ مِنِّي بِمَنۡزِلَةِ هَارُوۡنَ مِنۡ مُوۡسَى اِلَّا اَنَّهُ لَا نَبِيَّ بَعۡدِي ’ You are to me as was the status of Haroon عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام in the sight of Musa عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام, but there is no Nabi after me. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1310, Hadees 2404)

2 ‘ عَلِيٌ مِّنِّي بِمَنۡزِلَةِ رَأسِيۡ مِنۡ بَدَنِيۡ ’ i.e., ‘Ali’s relation to me is like the relation of my head to my body.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 277, Hadees 32911)

3 ‘ اَنَا دَارُالۡحِكۡمَ ةِ وَعَلِيٌّ بَابُهَا ’ i.e. I am the home of wisdom and Ali is its door. (Jami’ Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 402, Hadees 3744)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how beautifully our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned the glory of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ!

Apart from all these favours and saintly-miracles, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed countless virtues upon him. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: ‘Undoubtedly, the Holy Quran was revealed in seven (حروف) dialects; every one [dialect] of them has its apparent and hidden [meaning]. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is such a scholar who possesses both apparent and hidden knowledge’ (Tareekh-e-Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 42, pp. 400)

Similarly, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم possesses three such virtues that if I were blessed with even one of them, it would be more beloved to me than red camels.’ The blessed companions then asked about the three virtues. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said:

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم married his daughter Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا to him.

2 He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was living with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Masjid-un-Nabawi and for him, those things were also Halal in Masjid which are only specific to him.

3 The flag of Islam was given to him in the battle of Khyber.

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 94, Hadees 4689)

Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: (Sayyiduna) Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is the best Qadi [Judge] amongst us and Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the best Qaari (reciter of the Holy Quran) amongst us.

(Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 6, Hadees 21143)

بیاں کس منہ سے ہو اس مَجمَع البحرین کا رتبہ

جو مرکز ہے شریعت کا طریقت کا ہے سر چشمہ

(Deewan-e-Saalik, pp. 30, Az Risala-e-Na’eemiyah)

Dear Islamic brothers! سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, how majestic is the eminence of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also felt envy (رشک) at his attributes. Here it is necessary to mention one ruling that there is an order in Khulafa-e-Rashideen in the sight of rightly guided Ahl-e-Sunnat School of Thought with respect to superiority and rank.

Talking about this Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said: All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are Jannah-dwellers. After the Ambiya and Mursaleen, Siddeeq-e-Akbar then ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam then ‘Usman-e-Ghani then Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are superior in this order to all the creatures of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ such as human beings, jinns, and angels. Superior here means being more respectable and having higher status in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 241-254)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, all Khulafa-e-Rashideen were dearest and beloved of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated the virtues of all of them. The great scholar of Islamic Jurisprudence (Fiqh) of Ummah Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

اَنَا مَدِيۡنَةُ الۡعِلۡمِ وَاَبُوۡ بَكۡرٍ اَسَاسُهَا وَعُمَرُ حِيۡطَانُهَا وَعُثۡمَانُ سَقۡفُهَا وَعَلِيٌّ بَابُهَا

I am the city of knowledge, Abu Bakr is its foundation, ‘Umar is its wall, ‘Usman is its roof and Ali is its door. (Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadees 108)

ترے چاروں ہمدم ہیں یک جان یک دل

ابوبکر فاروق عثمان علی ہے

What Sayyiduna ‘Ali’s love demands

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: After the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Abu Bakr and ‘Umar are better than all.’ He added, ‘ لَا يَجۡتَمِعُ حُبِّيۡ وَبُغۡضُ اَبِيۡ بَكۡرٍ وَّ عُمَرَ فِيۡ قَلۡبِ مُؤۡمِنٍ Love for me and hatred towards Abu Bakr and Umar cannot gather in the heart of any believer. ’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 3 p. 79, Hadees 3920)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It means that Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم is stating himself that if anyone claims to love me, he will have to love Shaykhayn-e-Karimayn, otherwise my love will bring no benefit. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has very beautifully illustrated the blessed eminence of Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم in the form of a couplet:

بعدِ خُلَفائے ثَلاثہ سَب صَحابہ سے بڑا

آپ کو رُتبہ مِلا مَولٰی علی مُشکِل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to have love and respect and reverence for all great caliphs and blessed companions!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Masjid Dars - One of 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself always with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, to propagate Sunnahs and adopt the blessed life style of pious saints of Islam and take part actively in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah after getting some time from your busy

schedule. Remember! One daily Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Masjid Dars’ that is the most effective means of gaining and imparting Islamic knowledge. Masjid Dars is a very beautiful Madani activity by virtue of the blessing of which one is privileged to go to the Masjid again and again. By virtue of the blessing of Masjid Dars one gets the opportunity to study. By virtue of the blessing of Masjid Dars the Sunnah of meeting and greeting Muslims is propagated. By virtue of the blessing of Masjid Dars precious Madani pearls containing plenty of Islamic knowledge from the books and booklets authored by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat on different topics can be conveyed to Muslim Ummah. Masjid Dars is very helpful in making non-Salah-offering Muslims Salah-offering.

Du’a of Attar: O Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Forgive the Islamic brother or Islamic sister, who delivers or listens to two Dars daily, and me without any accountability and put us together in the neighbourhood of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable of ‘Masjid Dars’.

Treasure of information (Madani parable)

An Islamic brother living in Madina-tul-Awliya (blessed Multan) has stated a parable of his own reformation in these words: In 1995, I was a student of FSC. Due to having no Islamic knowledge I developed friendship with a man of corrupt beliefs; I used to spent time, eat and drink with him. It is said that company has its effect, therefore, I also started falling prey to his corrupt beliefs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant a long life to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه who laid the foundation of Dawat-e-Islami and did a great favour to the Muslim Ummah, saving countless of people from these people of corrupt beliefs! Surely if the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami had not been there, the friendship of that corrupt person would have misled me. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed me and I got rid of that friend-like enemy.

It actually happened like this that the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat started in our Masjid. One day my father advised me to attend the Dars by saying that by the blessing of sitting in the Dars not only will a great treasure of information be obtained but the privilege of attaining the great excellence of sitting in a gathering of Islamic knowledge is also gained. I therefore began attending the Dars regularly. Certainly by the blessings of sitting in the Dars, I found the golden opportunity of collecting priceless pearls of Islamic knowledge. In addition to this, it brought such comfort to my heart and mind that I cannot express in words.

By the blessings of the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, I attended the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. It was a new environment for me and I was very impressed by the knowledge that I received and its practice which I found everywhere. The heart-rending Bayan and highly motivating Du’a bringing about tears overturned the world of my heart; I sincerely repented of all my sins and associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have also had the privilege of taking the Bay’at from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayings of Sayyiduna Ali

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated such beautiful admonitory Madani pearls full of wisdom and knowledge that if we act upon them, we will succeed in the world and the Hereafter both.

Sayyiduna Ibn-e-‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated: ‘Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم stated such beautiful sayings that if people act upon them, they will attain success and will never do bad deeds.’ People humbly asked, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! What are those sayings? He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: Those admonitory sayings are as follows: He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said:

1 Take care of likes of your Muslim brother, do good to him, then you will also get your favourite thing from him.

2 Never have bad assumption in the conversation of your Muslim brother. (i.e. always find good aspect) you will surely find something good in his conversation.

3 When you have two acts, do not indulge in the act at all in which you have to follow Nafs because following Nafs causes complete loss.

4 Whenever you want to implore in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for your need, recite Salat upon His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم abundantly before making Du’a. Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses the person abundantly who asks for his needs from Him; then if someone asks for two things from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the thing upon him that is better for him and prevents the bondman from the thing that is harmful to him.

5 If someone wants to become busy all the time with Zikr [remembrance] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he should make patience his habit and have patience on every trouble.

6 And the person who desires for [long life in] worldly life should be prepared for troubles.

7 The person who wants to retain his honour and respect should refrain from show-off.

8 Do not ask any question unnecessarily about the thing which has nothing to do with you.

9 Value health before illness and get abundant benefits from the spare time, otherwise you will face grief and trouble.

10 Steadfastness is a half success just as grief is a half old age.

11 Give up the thing that raises a doubt in your heart because you will stay safe if you give it up. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayat, pp. 173)

Dear Islamic brothers! The abovementioned blessed sayings are so comprehensive and full of wisdom that if someone acts upon them, he will attain immense privileges of the world and the Hereafter. He will not face embarrassment in any matter of the world and the Deen. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated the best method of living life through these sayings. If we live our lives accordingly, very soon we will attain progress and success and the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If we want to get information about the admonitory sayings and Madani pearls full of wisdom and knowledge of blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی along with their blessed life’s circumstances, we should study a 324-page book namely, ‘ 152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ This remarkable book contains short biographies of 92 pious personages رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, parables of forgiveness and countless sayings. You are requested to study this book yourself and also persuade others to do so. This book can be downloaded, read and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will also start receiving the blessings of the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to follow in the footsteps of pious predecessors!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Majlis Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam approximately in 104 departments all over the world. One of them is Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat in which blessed Muftis and Islamic scholars of Ahl-e-Sunnat associated with Dawat-e-Islami are busy providing Muslims with Shar’i guidance. At present, approximately more than 100,000 replies are issued every month from the 11 branches of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat situated in different cities of Pakistan (including the Fatawa issued on internet). Most of the Fatawa are given after being composed on computer. In addition, thousands of Islamic brothers find the solution to their problems through telephones and also face to face and then try to deal with their matters as per Shari’ah. The blessed Muftis of Dar-

ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat provide the solutions to the problems [asked by Muslims from all over the world] through telephone, Whatsapp and internet. Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat Mobile Application has also been launched in cooperation with Majlis IT of Dawat-e-Islami in order to propagate the Noor [light] of Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this department is also progressing further.

Dear Islamic brothers! The sacred month of Ramadan is showering its blessings and mercy upon us. In this month, where some pious people’s ‘Urs is celebrated and their remembrance is done, the birth day of a pious bondman and saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also celebrated who is known to the world by the name of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . His reputation and greatness are acknowledged from the bottom of the heart. Let’s listen about him with reference to his birth day in the sacred month of Ramadan.

Introduction to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was born on the 26 th of Ramadan, 1369 AH (1950 AD) in Karachi, Pakistan. His forefathers lived in the village of Kutyanah in Junagadh, India. His grandfather, ‘Abdur Raheem was renowned for his virtues and exemplary character. His parents migrated to Pakistan, after independence [from the British rule]. They initially lived in Hyderabad, Bab-ul-Islam [Sindh, Pakistan] but later moved to Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi and since then he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has been living in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi).

His passion for Islamic knowledge

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had a deep yearning to gain Islamic knowledge. That’s why he had gained Islamic knowledge in his youth. The sources to gain Islamic knowledge were books and the company of Islamic scholars, specifically the grand Mufti of Pakistan, Shaykh Mufti Waqaruddin Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه continuously

attained blessings from him for twenty-two years and then the time also came when the grand Mufti of Pakistan blessed Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه with the honour of being his Khalifah [spiritual successor].

His daily routine

He is famous for punctuality of time and steadfastness. He continuously offers Salah with Jama’at and takes care of Sunnah and manners all the time. He usually likes to wear simple and white dress without being ironed, and also wears a green ‘Imamah of small size on his head. He is very active in the matters of reforming people. He never keeps quiet if he finds someone else performing an act that is contrary to Shari’ah or Sunnah, but rather he immediately reforms him in a very polite and loving manner.

In this critical age, due to having no tendency towards Islamic knowledge and no awareness of Islamic rulings and having everyone’s attention to only worldly knowledge ignorance is becoming widespread everywhere. Under such adverse conditions, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had been busy serving Islam day and night and then he laid the foundation of a great and global, non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami in 1401, AH (1981). Surely Madani revolution is taking place in the life of those who are associated with him. People are repenting of their sins and performing virtuous deeds. Therefore, we should associate ourselves with Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and try to accomplish the following Madani aim given to us by him: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said,

‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Madani pearls about refraining from wastage of water

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about refraining from wastage of water. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There is no good in using a large quantity of water in Wudu and that is from Satan. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 9, pp. 144, Hadees 26255)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم noticed someone doing Wudu and remarked, ‘Do not waste, do not waste.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 254, Hadees 424)

٭ Scholars unanimously agree that it is Haraam to use more than the required amount of Waqf water for Wudu, since it is not permissible to use this water more than required.

٭ Some people fill water in their hands in a way that water spills. The spilled water is wasted. Care must be taken in this regard.

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ refraining from wastage of water ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭…٭…٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 7 June 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls about refraining from wastage of water

٭ Repent of all past unlawful wastage and make every possible attempt to avoid it in future.

٭ During Wudu, open the tap carefully. During Wudu, keep one hand on the tap wherever possible and keep turning the tap off when the water is not needed.

٭ Make a habit of turning your tap off completely so that not a single drop of water leaks while using a Miswak, rinsing, gargling, cleaning your nose, doing Khilal of your beard, hands, feet; and wiping your head.

٭ Avoid draining cold water for using hot water for Wudu, Ghusl, washing clothes, utensils etc. Pay attention to it especially in winter. You can avoid wasting this cold water by collecting it in some sort of container (for later use).

٭ Also use water carefully when forming soap lather (rubbing your hands) in order to clean your hands or face.

٭ After use, place your soap in a totally water free soap holder.

٭ Rather than throwing away any leftover drinking water in a glass, offer it to someone else or make some other good use of it.

٭ If you have a constantly leaking tap, you must take immediate action to get it repaired; otherwise water will continue to go to waste.

٭ Sometimes, taps in Masajid and Madaris drip continuously but nobody cares about it. Management should take prompt remedial actions fulfilling their responsibility for the betterment of their own afterlife.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a before making Wudu

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a before making Wudu ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْمِ

Translation:

Allah’s Name I begin with, the Most Kind, the Most Merciful.

(Abu Dawood, Kitab-ut-Taharah, Juz: 1, pp. 69, Hadees 101)

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ الْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ

Translation:

Allah’s Name (I) begin with and all praises are for Allah.

(Al-Mu’jam-us-Sagheer, pp. 73, Hadees 196)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking around, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

