اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Hajj of the Devotees

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ قَرَأَ الْقُرْاٰنَ وَ حَمِدَ الرَّبَّ وَ صَلَّی عَلَی النَّبِیِّ ’ Whoever recited the Holy Quran, praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the

Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) ‘ وَاسْتَغْفَرَ رَبَّہ فَقَدْ طَلَبَ الْخَیْرَ مَکَانَہٗ ’ and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

-1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

-2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

-3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

-4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We can’t thank Allah Almighty enough for blessing us with the great blessing of Islam. Islam has 5 basic pillars. It is Fard [obligatory] upon every Muslim to believe in them. Out of these basic pillars of Islam, the last pillar is “Hajj”. Performing Hajj is Fard once in a lifetime for every such Muslim who can afford it. Therefore, it is stated in part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah No. 97:

وَ لِلّٰهِ عَلَى النَّاسِ حِجُّ الْبَیْتِ مَنِ اسْتَطَاعَ اِلَیْهِ سَبِیْلًاؕ- Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And performing Hajj of this house, for the sake of Allah, is (an obligation) upon the people, who have the means to reach it.

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan [1], volume 2, page No.17: This Ayah mentions the obligation of Hajj and that being able to afford it is a condition. In a blessed Hadees, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has explained it as the “provisions for the journey” and “means of transport”. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Kitab-ut-Tafseer, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, vol. 5, pp. 6, Hadees 3009)

Food provisions should be enough for him till his going and returning. Moreover, this should be in addition to the living expenses of his household till his return. Safety of the journey is also important as without having the safety, performing Hajj does not become obligatory.

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam 1439 Hijri is just about to arrive. In this month, fortunate Muslims who can afford it, attain the privilege of performing this great pillar of Islam. In today’s

Sunnah-inspiring Bayan [1], we will listen to the faith refreshing parables of the devotees of Hajj. Let’s listen to a parable in this relation.

Would that! I would come here very willingly and with utmost obedience

It is reported that Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn Masrooq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was the minister of the Caliph Haroon Rasheed, when Allah Almighty blessed him with the privilege of repenting, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه repented from his sins and left for Makkah Mukarramah weeping and walking barefoot. When the leaders of Makkah heard that the minister is about to reach Makkah, they gathered outside Makkah Mukarramah to present Salam to him. They saw that the facial texture of the minister is changed, his hair is untidy and dusty, and his body and face is extremely dusty too. Being astonished, the leaders asked the minister of Haroon Rasheed: ‘Why did you travel through the jungles and fields walking barefooted and in a state of having an appearance of destitute?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه responded: ‘Please tell me that what should be the state of a person who presents himself in the court of his Master? I have arrived here walking, whereas the right of this place is such that I should have come here walking on my head [2] .’ (Al-Bahr-ul-‘Ameeq, pp. 319)

حرم کی زمیں اور قدم رکھ کے چلنا

اَرے سَر کا مَوقع ہے او جانے والے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 158)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that when Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Masrooq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for the journey of Makkah, he left in an extremely poor state and barefooted. When he was asked the reason for this, what a beautiful reply he gave that when a slave presents himself in the court of his Master, then the right of the court is that the slave presents himself while walking on his head (i.e. with utmost reverence and respect); Whereas, I have just come barefooted. Undoubtedly, the appropriate manners of presenting oneself in the great court are that when a person goes there, he shouldn’t go there in an arrogant and boastful manner. Rather, he should attain the privilege of presenting himself (in the blessed court) in an extremely humble manner. Persuasion for this is also found in a blessed Hadees. Therefore, someone humbly asked in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasoolallah! How should a Haji be?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم responded: ‘With untidy hair and dust’. (Sharh-us-Sunnah lil-Baghawi, vol. 4, pp. 9, Hadees 1840)

Dear Islamic brothers! Every devotee has a wish in his heart to embark on the blessed journey of Haramayn Tayyibayn. Moreover, this wish shall also be present in our hearts too. Some fortunate people’s wish is fulfilled. They behold the Baytullah Shareef and perform the rites of Hajj. Thereafter, they are blessed with beholding the wonderful vision of the blessed shrine of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, those fortunate ones who get to visit the blessed Madinah after being privileged of performing Hajj and ‘Umrah and soothe their eyes by beholding the golden grills, the thirst of their urge does not quench, rather it increases further and they remain restless in the separation of Madinah at all times.

Dear Islamic brothers! Going to behold the blessed Ka’bah and the Green Dome, whether it is HaHa Hajj or ‘Umrah, whatever the intention might be, it is undoubtedly a great fortune and privilege to take a step towards the blessed Haram. Moreover, a person who leaves his home with this intention gains immense benefits because this is such a journey that is covered with the mercies and blessings of Allah Almighty at every step. And when the

person reaches Haramayn Tayyibayn, then what can be said about his fortune. His fortune shines to its pinnacle. Furthermore, in the meanwhile, if he passes away over there and gets resting place in Jannat-ul-Baqi’, then what other bigger reward can be there for him? Along with this, reward according to the intention of his righteous deed will keep getting written down in his book of deeds until the Day of Judgement. Moreover, even if one has to return, then the imagination of going to Madinah again also becomes a means of soothing the urge of the devotees of Rasool. In short! This blessed journey has numerous benefits. Let’s listen to some blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

1. This house is the pillar of Islam. The Hajj or ‘Umrah performing person who leaves his home with the intention of going to Baytullah Shareef, if his soul is seized, then it is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty to enter him into the Paradise. And if he returns (after performing Hajj), then he will return with rewards and blessings. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 352, Hadees 9033; Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, lil-Daylami, vol. 2, pp. 382, Hadees 7208)

2. The one who leaves his home to perform Hajj or ‘Umrah and passes away, he will be rewarded with the reward of the one who performs Hajj and ‘Umrah continuously until the Day of Judgement. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 4100)

3. The one who set out in this path to perform Hajj or ‘Umrah and died, he will not be presented for accountability and nor will he be held to account, and he will be asked to enter Paradise. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 111, Hadees 5388)

طیبہ میں مَر کے ٹھنڈے چلے جاؤ آنکھیں بند

سیدھی سڑک یہ شہرِ شَفاعت نگر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, p. 221)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Being blessed with the privilege of going to Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Munawwarah زَادَھُمَا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا is such unique opportunity which is only attained by those who are fortunate. We cannot pay enough gratitude for this. Whenever anyone is blessed with this sacred journey, then he should travel while paying gratitude over his fortune, remembering his sins and trembling with the fear of Allah Almighty with the hope that we will go to the sacred lands of Haramayn Tayyibayn and attain the mercies that are being showered there at all times, get our sins forgiven and revive our blackened hearts.

Remember! When we will travel with these righteous intentions and repent over our sins while being remorseful over them at every sacred place, then our sins will definitely be forgiven with the mercy of Allah Almighty. Alas! A large number of people nowadays consider this sacred journey to be like any other ordinary journey. Looking at them gives you the impression as if they have مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ come there to enjoy a picnic. They mess around as usual, create usual noise and keep joking around and laughing uncontrollably. What should actually happen is that the fortunate one who gets this opportunity should consider this to be a sacred privilege for himself and revere it immensely while understanding its purpose. While mentioning the greatness and importance of this journey, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says:

ہاں ہاں رہِ مدینہ ہے غافل ذَرا تو جاگ

او پاؤں رکھنے والے یہ جا چشم و سَر کی ہے

(Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, p. 218)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also ensure that whenever we are blessed with the privilege of embarking on this blessed journey, then keep in mind

while revering the journey lest we commit any such action which becomes a means of the whole journey to go in vain. Some foolish people do not refrain from joking around even at these sacred places and are seen ruining its sanctity while remaining engaged in useless conversations. Some people use their mobile phones unnecessarily even there. Some foolish people waste their precious time by taking their own selfies at these sacred places and become a means of concern for other people too. Who knows that how many people’s Hajj and ‘Umrahs would be affected because of the actions of this type of people, resulting in affecting their devotedness and diverting their attentions.

If we study the parables of the journeys of Haramayn Tayyibayn of our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, then we would come to know that these personalities would embark on the journey of Hajj with extreme respect and reverence, supplicate imploringly in the blessed court of Allah Almighty, seek repentance of their sins, adopt humbleness and humility and leave for the journey of Madinah while being overcome with the fear of Allah Almighty and love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in such a way that due to the blessings of their company, other people would also adopt their traits. Let’s listen to a faith refreshing parable.

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to me: ‘I intend for Hajj. Make someone my companion for the journey.’ Therefore, I convinced one of my neighbours to go on the journey of Hajj with him. The next day, my neighbour came to me and said: ‘I cannot go with Sayyiduna Buhaym (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه)’. Astonished, I asked: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not seen a well-mannered person like him in the entire Kufa. After all, what is the reason that you are depriving yourself from his company?’ He said: ‘I have heard that he often cries. That’s why my journey with him will not be pleasant.’ I explained him that he is a very righteous person. His company will اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be extremely beneficial for you. He agreed. When provisions for the journey were being loaded onto the camels, then Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sat by a wall and

started crying; to the extent that his beard and chest got soaked with tears and tears started falling on the ground. My neighbour anxiously said to me: ‘It is just the start of the journey and this is his state. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows what’s going to happen later on.’ While persuading him, I said: ‘Do not get worried. It’s a matter of travelling. It is possible that he may be crying due to the separation from his household, and later on, he would settle down afterwards.’

Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard this and said: ‘ وَاللّٰہ! It’s nothing like this. Due to this journey, I remembered the “journey of the Hereafter”.’ Having said this, he started crying bitterly. My neighbour once again said to me in a state of anxiousness: ‘How would I be able to stay with him? He should travel with Sayyiduna Dawood Taa`ee and Sayyiduna Salam Abul Ahwas رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی because they two also weep a lot. He will adjust with them very well and they would cry a lot together.’ I encouraged my neighbour again. Eventually, he embarked on the journey of Hajj with him.

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When they returned from Hajj, I went to see my Haji neighbour. He told me: ‘May Allah Almighty reward you immensely. I have not seen a person like him anywhere. Although I was rich, but he would spend abundantly on me despite being poor; despite being old, he would observe Siyam; he would cook food for a non-Sawm observing young man like me and would serve me a lot.’ I said: ‘But you used to get worried due to his act of crying. What are your thoughts now?’ He said: ‘Initially, I as well as the other people of the caravan would get worried due to the abundance of his crying; but gradually, this state also overcame us due to the blessings of his company and we would also cry along with him.’

Sayyiduna Mukhawwal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says: After this, I went to Sayyiduna Buhaym ‘Ijlee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and inquired about my Haji neighbour. Upon this, he said: ‘He was an extremely good companion. He would perform the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recite the Holy Quran in abundance. Moreover, he

would shed tears very quickly. May Allah Almighty give you immense reward.’ (Al-Bahr-ul-‘Ameeq, vol. 1, pp. 300; summarized from: ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 118)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that when our righteous predecessors would embark on the journey of Hajj, they would remain engaged in the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the recitation of Holy Quran at all times. They would shed tears out of the fear of Allah Almighty and would serve their companions immensely. Being impressed with their good mannerism, habits and character, those who would be travelling with them would also adopt their habits. From this parable, we also come to know that whenever our righteous predecessors would embark on any kind of journey, even if it was a sacred and reverend journey like the journey of Hajj, they would still remember the journey of the Hereafter. Moreover, they would shed so many tears remembering the Hereafter that their blessed beard would get soaked with tears. On the other hand, there are people like us who let alone thinking about the Hereafter, it seems as if we have considered the purpose of life only to stay in this world forever and remain engrossed in the luxuries of this world. Whereas, wise is the one who contemplates upon the Hereafter for his every action in this world. May Allah Almighty enable us to spend our worldly activities in accordance with Shari’ah and prepare for our Hereafter as well.

Take part in the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourselves with Dawat-e-Islami, a movement of the devotees of Rasool, in order to develop the mindset for the Hereafter, perform numerous virtues and refrain from sins. Moreover, in order to propagate the message of Deen, take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. The 12 Madani activities of the Zayli

Halqah consist of Masjid Dars and Chowk Dars also. If we act upon both these Madani activities, then due to their blessings, we will succeed in acting upon the Madani In’aam of delivering or listening to two Dars. Moreover, if Dars is delivered in one’s own home, then household will also become practicing due to its blessings. What is the importance of delivering or listening to two Dars in the sight of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه can be very well judged from his following words. Therefore, he states: Would that! Islamic brothers make a habit of earning abundant of reward by delivering or listening to two Dars daily in Masjid, home, market, square, shop etc., and Islamic sisters do the same at home, and also become deserving the following Du’a of Attar: O Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! The Islamic brother or Islamic sister who delivers or listens to two Dars daily, forgive them and me without accountability and keep us together in the neighbourhood of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat for persuasion and rejoice.

Conduct with relatives

One Madani Qafilah of the devotees of Rasool reached Bahawalpur, a city of Punjab (Pakistan). The devotees of Rasool travelling in the Madani Qafilah spent two days in a village. Then Chaudhry Sahib (a senior member of the village) invited the Madani Qafilah participants for a meal. The Ameer-e-Qafilah accepted the invitation based on the Madani fees (condition) that first home Dars will take place at your home and then we will have meal. Therefore, Dars was delivered from the chapter of Faizan-e-Sunnat “Sunnahs and manners of the neighbours”. After the Dars, Chaudhry Sahib said: My youth is about to pass but alas! I do not know the Sunnahs and manners of neighbours. I make the intention from today to keep a beard and wear the blessed ‘Imamah.

جو دے روز دو درسِ فیضانِ سُنّت

میں دیتا ہوں اُس کو دعائے مدینہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You are listening about the blessed journey of Hajj and its etiquette. Whether the journey is of this world or the Hereafter, there are some manners for its preparation. If there is any weakness in the preparations or one does not abide by the etiquette during the journey, then he can face difficulties during the journey. For the journey of the Hereafter, if one has the provisions in the form of virtuous deeds, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ one will reach the destination easily without facing any hassle. Moreover, there are also few manners for the worldly travel. Let’s listen to some of them:

1- One shall make good intentions before starting a journey. For example, intention of saying Salam and shaking hands with those whom you come across while coming and going from home and those whom you meet on the way, intention of replying to Salam, intention of saving yourself from evil sightedness as well as every type of sin, intention of offering Salah within its stipulated time etc. Further intentions can also be added in these. (In order to learn about more righteous intentions and Shar’i rulings regarding the journey of Hajj, ‘Umrah and visiting Madinah Munawwarah, study of book “ Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn ” consisting of 351 pages, a masterpiece by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه would be extremely beneficial.)

2- Masnoon Du’as shall be recited during a journey. If possible, make other devotees of Rasool recite the Du’as too.

3- While making others a witness, one shall sincerely repent from all the sins and as a precaution; he shall also renew his faith.

4- Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: (The one travelling should) keep performing Zikr and reciting the Holy Quran. However, it should be in such voice that the other person cannot hear him. If someone converses with him, then he should stop the Zikr and recitation of the Holy Quran and listen to him attentively as long as he speaks. When the other person stops talking, then he shall return to his previous state (i.e. start the Zikr etc.) (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 934)

5- It is Sunnah for a traveller to keep five (5) things with him. Therefore, mother of believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah ر َضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states that whenever the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would embark upon a journey, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would definitely keep five (5) things with him. (1) Mirror (2) Kohl bottle (3) Scissors (4) Miswak and (5) Comb (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 20, Hadees 2352; summarized)

6- One shall embark upon a journey after entrusting the religion, lives, wealth, offspring, health and wellbeing of his relatives, friends, loved ones and acquaintances to Allah Almighty.

In order to learn more about travelling and the etiquette of travelling, study two books published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, volume 2, page 885 to 970 and Bahar-e-Shari’at, volume 1, page 1051 to 1067. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will acquire immense beneficial knowledge.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A person said to Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: I have intended to go on the Hajj-pilgrimage. Whom would you like to recommend as my travelling companion so that I could be blessed with his company and reach the Divine court to receive the Divine mercy? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: O brother! If you need a companion, keep the company of the Holy Quran by reciting it. If you want a comrade, make angels your comrades. If you need any friend, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the owner of the hearts of His friends. If you need provisions, belief in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best provision. Then, considering the Holy Ka’bah to be in front of you, perform Tawaf of it happily. (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 125; ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 101)

Dear Islamic brothers! What a beautiful piece of advice Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave. Would that! We also become practicing upon this advice and become among those who understand the greatness and purposes of the journey of Hajj. It is commonly observed that some people embark on the blessed journey of Hajj and ‘Umrah every year, they behold the blessed Ka’bah and do its Tawaf and after performing other rites of Hajj, they are blessed with visiting the blessed shrine of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, when they return, they indulge in the sinful life as they were previously indulged in and the sins they used to commit remain within them. Such people should contemplate upon the fact that after all, what is the reason? We could not reform ourselves despite going to these sacred places again and again. Is it the case that we performed all these Hajj and ‘Umrahs only for the desire of Nafs, to show-off to people and to be called “Haji Sahib”? Because the hardships of worship are turned into easiness due to the desire of performing numerous Hajj and ‘Umrahs, and being acclaimed as a devout worshipper and abstinent in the sight of people.

As Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Murta’ish رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘I performed numerous Hajj, and most of them were performed without taking any provisions for Hajj. Then I came to know that this is a deception of my Nafs; because once my mother ordered me to fill up and bring a pitcher of

water. My Nafs felt unpleasant of her command. Therefore, I realised that during the journey of Hajj, my Nafs supported me just for its own desire and kept me in deception; because if my Nafs had become fully sincere, then why would it (i.e. Nafs) feel extremely difficult to fulfil one right of Shar’iah (i.e. obeying mother) today?’ (Ar-Risala-tul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 135)

Love for status makes the hardship of worship easy

Dear Islamic brothers! This narration does not mean at all that Sayyiduna Abu Muhammad Murta’ish رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not listen to his mother; but rather, her command was felt to be unpleasant by his Nafs only. So, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made his mindset that for so many years, I have performed the difficult worship like Hajj just falling prey to the deception of my Nafs.

From this narration, we also come to know how great Madani mindset our righteous predecessors possessed and what an embodiment of humility they used to be. Some people have the habit of meeting other people with extreme politeness and humility but have a rude, immoral and severe heart-breaking attitude at times towards their parents, siblings and household. Why is it so? Because displaying good character among general public becomes a means of fame, whereas there is no special hope of gaining respect and reverence by having good mannerism at home! That’s why these people behave extremely politely amongst general public.

This narration also contains extremely important Madani pearls of admonition for those Islamic brothers as well who present various sacrifices for some Mustahab [preferable] actions but are heedless in fulfilling Faraaid and Wajibat (obligatory acts); for example, obeying parents, failing to provide children with the upbringing according to Shari’ah and those who are negligent themselves in the matter of acquiring the Fard knowledge. The truth is that the virtuous actions through which one attains fame and appreciation, they are performed with ease despite being difficult, because love for status i.e. the desire of attaining fame turns severe hardships into easiness. Love for status contains nothing but

destructiveness. For admonition, listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

-1 Refrain from mixing the obedience of Allah Almighty (i.e. worship) with the love of the praise received from the people; lest all your actions get ruined. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 223, Hadees 1567)

-2 Two hungry wolves do not cause as much harm to the herd of goats as much as the love for wealth and status (i.e. love for wealth, fame and respect) does to the religion of a Muslim. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383; ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 103)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Self-praising

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall also avoid performing righteous actions to show off to people, be self-acclaimed and gain respect and reverence in the society; and should perform virtuous actions just for the sake of the pleasure of Allah Almighty, attain virtues and make our Hereafter better. Our righteous predecessors would worship Allah Almighty with sincerity and steadfastness even after returning from Hajj and ‘Umrah.

Glad tidings to the young man waiting for the permission to leave

Near the Holy Ka’bah, Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a young man who was continuously offering Salah. Somehow, he found an opportunity to ask the young man, ‘What is the matter! Why are you offering Salah continuously instead of returning?’ The young man replied, ‘How can I go back without being granted the permission to return? I am waiting for the permission.’

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further stated: We were still conversing with each other when a letter fell on to the young man. The

letter read, ‘This letter is from Almighty Allah for a thankful and sincere bondman. Go back! Your past and future sins have been forgiven.’ (‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat, pp. 95; Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 108, summarized)

Let’s now listen to two devotion filled parables of the devotees of Rasool Hajis:

Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Hujjaj (Hajj pilgrims) were engaged in Du’a in the field of ‘Arafat. I saw a young man who was standing remorsefully with his head bowed down. I said: ‘O young man, you too make Du’a.’ He said: ‘I am scared of the fact that the time that was given to me has perhaps passed. How can I make Du’a now?’ I said: ‘You too make Du’a so that Allah Almighty also makes you successful with the blessings of these supplicating people.’ Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: He tried to raise his hands to make Du’a and all of sudden, a state of extreme emotions overcame him, a scream came out of his mouth, he fell down writhing and his soul departed from his body. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 363)

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I saw a young man sitting peacefully in Mina Shareef, whereas people were engaged performing the sacrifice. In the meanwhile, he proclaimed: ‘O my Merciful Lord Almighty! All your servants are busy performing the sacrifice. I too want to sacrifice my life in your court. O my Merciful Lord! Accept me.’ Having said this, he passed his finger over his throat and he fell down writhing. When I went close and looked at him, he had passed away. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 364)

یہ اِک جان کیا ہے اگر ہوں کروڑوں

ترے نام پر سب کو وارا کروں میں

(Saaman-e-Bakhshish, pp. 135)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear? This is how a Hajj should be. May Allah Almighty also grant us the tenderness of heart for the sake of these two blessed Hajis. Remember! Sincerity is a condition for the acceptance of every act of worship. Ah! Now due to being distanced away from the knowledge of Deen and good company, most acts of worships end up being affected by show-off. Generally, as showing off is now a days considered to be compulsory in every matter, similarly, the great blessing like Hajj is also being performed to show-off. For example, after performing Hajj, numerous people call themselves “Haji” and write “Haji” next to their names without any reason or need. You probably would have been surprised that after all, what’s wrong in it? There is no harm in the situation where people call you Haji Sahib themselves.

However, ponder! If calling yourself Haji is not announcing your act of worship yourself, then what else is it? Try to understand this from the following incident: The train was heading towards its destination. Two people were sitting next to each other. One started the conversation by saying: ‘What is your name?’ He replied: “Haji Shafeeq” and what’s your name? The other person asked the question. The first person replied: “Namazi Rafeeq”. Haji Shafeeq was quite shocked to hear the reply. He asked: ‘hmm Namazi Rafeeq! This looks quite an odd name.’ Namazi Rafeeq asked: ‘How many times have you been blessed with performing Hajj?’ Haji Shafeeq replied: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I went for the Hajj pilgrimage just last year. Namazi Rafeeq said: ‘You have been blessed with performing the Hajj of Baytullah Shareef only once and started putting “Haji” with your name openly; whereas, it’s been years since I have been offering 5 times Salah daily. Therefore, if I put the word “Namazi” next to my name, then what is so shocking in this?’

Dear Islamic brothers! Strange is the state nowadays. Showing off has crossed all limits. When a person goes to Hajj, then upon his return, he decorates the whole building with lights and displays a “Hajj Mubarak”

board at home without any good intention. In fact, various Hajis take loads of pictures in Ihram. After all, what is this? Is it appropriate for a fled slave to present himself in the court of the Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with such awe and dignity? Not at all! Rather, one shall present himself in the blessed court while crying, trembling and shivering. (Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn, pp. 49)

آنسوؤں کی لڑی بن رہی ہو

اور آہوں سے پھٹتا ہو سینہ

وِردِ لَب ہو ’’مدینہ مدینہ‘‘

جب چلے سُوئے طیبہ سفینہ

جب مدینے میں ہو اپنی آمد

جب میں دیکھوں تِرا سبز گنبد

ہِچکیاں باندھ کر روؤں بے حد

کاش! آجائے ایسا قرینہ

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 188)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who display a sign of Hajj Mubarak on their homes and spread the news of their Hajj all around without any good intention and just for the charm of their Nafs and desire for attaining fame, a narration based on the highest level of humility is presented for them.

Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left walking for Hajj from Basra. Somebody humbly asked: ‘Why don’t you ride (upon a mean of transport)?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Should a fled slave go to the court of his Merciful Lord riding (upon a mean of transport) in order to reconcile? I feel extremely embarrassed in going to that sacred land.’ (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 267; Rafeeq-ul-Haramayn, pp. 54)

اے زائرِ مدینہ تُو خوشی سے ہنس رہا ہے

دلِ غمزدہ جو لاتا تو کچھ اور بات ہوتی

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 385)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a great privilege to visit Haramayn Tayyibayn. Therefore, whenever you attain this joyous opportunity, embark on this blessed journey with extreme respect and reverence and by being an embodiment of humility and humbleness. Observe patience upon the difficulties you face on the way. Refrain from sins completely. Gain the blessings of this journey while becoming a complete embodiment of humility and humbleness. When Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Baaqir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for Makkah Mukarramah زَادَھَـا الـلّٰـهُ شَـرَفًـا وَّ تَـعۡـظِیۡـمًا for Hajj and entered Masjid-ul-Haraam, he looked at Baytullah Shareef and started crying; to the extent that his voice rose while crying. Someone humbly asked: ‘Ya Sayyidi! Everyone is staring at you. Do not cry so much.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Why shall I not cry? Perhaps Allah Almighty will bestow mercy upon me due to my crying and I succeed in His court on the Day of Judgement.’ Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Tawaf and offered Salah at “Maqaam-e-Ibraheem”. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lifted his head from Sajdah, the place of Sajdah was soaked with tears. (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 113)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beneficial Madani pearls for the Hajis (Hajj pilgrims)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those fortunate people who are attaining the privilege of performing Hajj this year, may Allah Almighty accept their Hajj, and may Allah Almighty also enable us to see these blessed moments. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned 16 beneficial Madani pearls for Hajis on page No. 28 of Rafeeq-ul-

Haramayn . These Madani pearls will prove beneficial for them. Let’s also listen to some of those Madani pearls:

٭ Arrange for the necessary provisions of the journey three four days before the departure. Moreover, also consult with an experienced Haji.

٭ The government prohibits Hajis from taking fruits, cooked food tiffin, sweets and other edible products from their own country.

٭ You will have to walk from your residence in Makkah Mukarramah to Masjid-ul-Haraam, this distance plus the distance of Tawaf including Sa’ee sums up to approximately 7 kilometres. Furthermore, there will be quite a lot of walk in Mina, ‘Arafat and Muzdalifah too. Therefore, make a habit of walking for 45 minutes daily from quite few days before the days of Hajj. (If one can make a permanent habit of this, it will اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be extremely beneficial for health). Otherwise, you may face difficulty in Hajj due to walking too much all of a sudden.

٭ Make a habit of eating less. You will see its advantages yourself. Try to subsist on very light diet especially in the 5 days of Hajj so that you do not need to go for Istinja again and again. There are long queues especially in the bathrooms of Mina, Muzdalifah and ‘Arafat.

٭ Islamic sisters shall not do Tawaf wearing glass bangles. There is a risk of getting yourself injured and others getting injured if the bangles break in the rush of the crowd.

٭ Islamic sisters shall not wear high heel shoes as it will make difficult for them to walk.

٭ Do not keep anyone’s packet without opening and checking it. If any prohibited item is found in there, then you can get in trouble at the airport.

٭ Keep your medicines along with your doctor’s prescription in your shoulder bag in the aeroplane so it can be convenient in case of an emergency.

٭ Apply the Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue and eyes. If you have the habit of talking uselessly, then it will be difficult to refrain from sins such as backbiting, slandering and hurting feelings etc. Similarly, if you do not protect your eyes and keep gazes lowered most of the times, then it will be very difficult to refrain from evil sightedness. One virtuous deed in Haram is equal to one hundred thousand virtuous deeds and one sin is equal to one hundred thousand sins. Haram does not only refer to Masjid-ul-Haraam, but it encompasses the entire boundary of Haram.

٭ During Salah, some part of the Muhrim’s chest or abdomen is exposed. There is no harm in it because it is normal and acceptable in the state of Ihram. To be cautious about this matter is also very difficult.

٭ To bring a shroud after soaking it in Zamzam water is good as the breeze of Makkah and Madinah will also kiss the shroud. When squeezing the shroud, ensure that not even a single drop of this sacred water goes into the drain. Squeeze the water onto some plant etc. (One can also sprinkle Zamzam water over the shroud in his own country.)

٭ When performing Tawaf or Sa’ee, the pages of Hajj books are sometimes found lying on the ground. Pick them up, if possible. However, ensure that your back or chest does not face the Ka’bah during the Tawaf. However, do not pick someone’s money or wallet lying on the ground.

٭ It is good to remain barefooted in Hijaz-e-Muqaddas but wear slippers before entering the toilets of the Masjid, home and when there is mud

on the way. Do not enter the blessed Masajid, in fact any Masjid with dirty feet. Wear slippers if you cannot maintain cleanliness.

٭ Avoid wearing used slippers when making Wudu at a washbasin because water is often spread over the floor near the washbasin. If the slippers are impure, there is the risk of splashes coming onto your clothes.

٭ Usually the flow of water is quite high in the taps of Mina Shareef; so open the tap slowly to remain safe from the splashes of water.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Tawqeet

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is working in more than 104 departments in order to spread the invitation towards righteousness and propagate Sunnahs all across the globe. Out of these departments, one department is “Majlis Tawqeet”. Tawqeet refers to the knowledge that assists us in finding out the 5 daily Salah timings, timing of sunrise and sunset, Nisf-un-Nahaar and Misl-e-Awwal and Saani timings etc.

Moreover, it also assists in allocating the right direction of Qiblah. Majlis Tawqeet has gathered the timings of Salah, sunrise, sunset and right direction of Qiblah in the form of a map. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ up to now, Majlis Tawqeet has not only prepared the “Salah timings” of numerous cities according to the rules and regulations of the knowledge of Tawqeet, but rather taking a step further in this matter and with the collaboration of the prominent “IT Majlis” of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, they have also introduced an application named “Awqat-us-Salah” that is extremely beneficial to indicate the correct timings of Salah on the computers and mobiles etc.

Therefore, you can find out the correct timings of Salah for around two million seven hundred thousand (2,700,000) places through the computer desktop application; whereas through the mobile application, you can find the correct Salah timings for around ten thousand (10,000) places with ease. Moreover, you can also easily find out the right direction of the Qiblah through this application. If you face any sort of issue in the timings of Salah or have any kind of suggestion, then you can contact the members and responsible Islamic brothers of this Majlis in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi on telephone or the following email address: prayer@dawateislami.net.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of making intentions

Dear Islamic brothers! While bringing the Bayan towards the end, let’s be privileged with listening to the Sunnahs and manners of intention. First, listen to the two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ اِنَّمَا الاَعْمَالُ بِالنِّیَّات ’ i.e. Actions are dependent upon intentions. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 5, Hadees 1)

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ نِیَّۃُ الْمُؤْمِنِ خَیْرٌ مِّنْ عَمَلِہٖ ’ i.e. Intention of a Muslim is better than his action. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer lit-Tabarani, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

٭ More than one virtuous intention can be made in every permissible action. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ No reward is granted for any virtuous deed without good intention. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ Virtuous intention in a righteous action means that the heart stays focussed towards the action and that action is being performed for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of making intentions will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, in order to know about these Madani pearls, do participate in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs (learning sessions).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said,

‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 2 August 2018

-1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

-2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

-3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

-4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of making intention

٭ Intention refers to the intention of heart. Uttering the intention from the tongue while it’s present in the heart is even better. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ The purpose of intention is to separate it from worship or differentiate between worship and a habitual action. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 11)

٭ If intention is not present in the heart, then intention will not be made by merely uttering the words of intention from the tongue. (Bahar-e-Niyyat, pp. 10)

٭ The one who is not used to making good intentions will have to work hard in the start to make the habit for it. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ In order to develop the habit of making intentions, one will have to seriously make his own mindset while keeping in view the importance of intentions. (Sawab Berhaanay kay Nuskhay, pp. 3)

٭ Sayyiduna Na’eem Bin Hammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say that ‘it is easier for us to have our backs whipped than to make righteous intentions’. (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 25)

٭ Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has stated: ‘A person is given such rewards upon righteous intention that are not even given to him on virtuous action, because there is no ostentation in intention.’ (Jahannam mayn Lay Jaanay Walay A’maal, vol. 1, pp. 152)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for becoming pious

The Du’a for ‘ becoming pious ’ will be memorised as per the schedule in the Madani Halqahs [circles] of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week. The Du’a is as following:

اَللّٰهُمَّ اجْعَلْنِي مِنْ الَّذِينَ اِذَا اَحْسَنُوْا اِسْتَبْشَرُوْا، وَ اِذَا اَسَاؤُوْا اِسْتَغْفَرُوْا

Translation: O Allah Almighty, make me among those people who become happy upon performing a righteous action and repent in case they commit a sin. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 450, Hadees 25034)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

-1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

-2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

-3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

-4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

-5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

-6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

-7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

-8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

-9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat) Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

-1 Made good intentions?

-2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

-3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

-4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

-5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

-6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

-7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

-8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

-9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

-10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

-11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

-12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

-13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

-14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

-15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

-16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

-17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

-18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

-19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

-20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

-21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

-22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

-23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

-24 Obeyed your Nigran?

-25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

-26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

-27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

-28 Controlled your anger?

-29 Refrained from useless questions?

-30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

-31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

-32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

-33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

-34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

-35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

-36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

-37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

-38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

-39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

-40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

-41 Paid back the loan on time?

-42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

-43 Kept unified relations?

-44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

-45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

-46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

-47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

-48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

-49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

-50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

-1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

-2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

-3 Inquired after an ill person?

-4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

-5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

-6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

-7 Sent a letter?

-8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

