Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Travelled for Hajj on foot 20 times . 4

Excellence of Hajj 6

Hajj, ‘Umrah and selfie . 9

1. Best traveling companion .. 10

2. Hajj of Shaykh Shibli 11

3. Why shouldn’t I weep? . 11

A’la Hadrat’s pilgrimage for Hajj 12

‘Holiday I’tikaf’, one of the 12 Madani activities . 13

Madani parable . 14

Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah . 15

First method . 16

Second method . 16

Third method . 16

Fourth method . 18

No guarantee of life! 19

Brief introduction to Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah . 20

Early education .. 20

Demise and blessed funeral 20

Excellence of first 10 days of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam ... 21

Summary of speech . 22

Sunan and manners of wearing ‘Imamah . 23

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 25

2. All sins forgiven .. 25

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 26

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 26

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 26

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 27

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 27

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 27

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Excellence of Hajj

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends ten blessings upon him. And whoever recites Salat upon me ten times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends 100 blessings upon him and whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and the hellfire; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 2735)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Travelled for Hajj on foot 20 times

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once said, ‘I feel shy from my Lord to meet him in the state that I have never been to His holy home [sacred Ka’bah] on foot. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ travelled to Makkah Mukarramah from Madinah Munawwarah on foot for Hajj 20 times. People saw Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he performed the Tawaf of Ka’bah, then offered two Rak’aat Wajib Salah at Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and then placed his blessed cheek on Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and made Du’a weeping severely, ‘(O my Omnipotent Lord)! Your bondman is present at Your door; Your beggar is present at Your door; Your helpless bondman is present at Your door.’

He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ kept repeating the same words whilst weeping. Afterwards he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned. On the way, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ found some destitute people who were sitting and eating pieces of bread (given to them in Sadaqah). He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said Salam to them. They invited him to eat with them. He sat with them [for pleasing them] and said, ‘If these pieces of bread had not been given to you in Sadaqah, I would certainly have eaten with you.’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: Come with me to my home. Destitute people went with him to his home. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave them food, clothes and ordered his servants to give them dirhams as well. (Al-Mustatraf, vol. 1, pp. 23)

حَسَنِ مُجتبٰی سَیِّدُ الاَسخِیا

راکِبِ دوشِ عزّت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Brief explanation: May millions of Salam be upon the chief of all the generous, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who took a ride on the blessed shoulders of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Mujtaba رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ travelled on foot for Hajj 20 times and made Du’a weeping excessively with extreme humbleness in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It has been

understood that when a person is privileged to go on a pilgrimage to Haramayn Tayyibayn, it is better for him to visit with extreme humbleness and reverence.

Every true devotee has the intense desire for the sacred pilgrimage of Haramayn Tayyibayn and obviously it should be. The desire of some fortunate people is fulfilled and they attain the privilege of performing Hajj. Some devotees of Rasool remain restless and impatient all the time for the visit of Haramayn Tayyibayn. They wish to attain the privilege of this sacred pilgrimage. We should also continue to have devotion to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the desire for Hajj and the visit to Madinah Munawwarah. We should be hopeful about the kind benevolence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, some day we will also be blessed and will have the privilege of pilgrimage to Haramayn.

بڑا حج پہ آنے کو جی چاہتا ہے بُلاوا اب آئیگا کب یا الٰہی

میں مکّے میں آؤں مدینے میں آؤں بنا کوئی ایسا سبب یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Remember! Going on a pilgrimage to see sacred Ka’bah and Gumbad-e-Khazra, performing Hajj or ‘Umrah, in short, visiting Haram-e-Pak with any good intention is certainly a great blessing and a privilege. It is such a great pilgrimage in which special mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ descends and a devotee attains the privilege of virtuous deed for every step. When this fortunate pilgrim reaches his destination [Haramayn Tayyibayn], he in fact has a stroke of fortune. If a devotee passes away during that period at any of these sacred places and is buried over there, so what could be more rewarding than this privilege for him. If he has to return home, he should imagine to pay a visit again as it fulfils the desire of devotees of Rasool. In short, this sacred pilgrimage has great advantages. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it:

1. This house [i.e. Baytullah] is one of the pillars of Islam, so whoever performs Hajj of Baytullah or performs ‘Umrah, so he is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, therefore if he dies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him enter Paradise and if he returns to his home [safely], he will return with reward and benefit. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 352, Hadees 9033)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who leaves (his home) for becoming Haji, Ghazi or to perform ‘ Umrah and then passes away on the way, for him Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes the reward of Ghazi, Haji and ‘Umrah, till the Judgement Day.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 474, Hadees 4100)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Whoever leaves for Hajj or ‘Umrah and dies, will not be summoned nor will he face accountability and he will be asked, enter Paradise .’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 4, pp. 111, Hadees 5388)

طیبہ میں مَر کے ٹھنڈے چلے جاؤ آنکھیں بند سیدھی سڑک یہ شہرِ شَفاعت نگر کی ہے

زِندہ رہیں تو حاضریِ بارگہ نصیب مَر جائیں تو حیاتِ اَبَد عیش گھر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Excellence of Hajj

Dear Islamic brothers! Hajj is a basic pillar of Islam [amongst the pillars of Islam] and a very important act of worship. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made it obligatory for those who are able to afford it. The one, who despite being it obligatory for him, becomes negligent in performing it, will be a great sinner and deserving of Hell. In Ayah 97 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran part 4, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ لِلّٰهِ عَلَى النَّاسِ حِجُّ الْبَیْتِ مَنِ اسْتَطَاعَ اِلَیْهِ سَبِیْلًاؕ-وَ مَنْ كَفَرَ فَاِنَّ اللّٰهَ غَنِیٌّ عَنِ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And performing Hajj of this house, for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is (an obligation) upon the people, who have the means to reach it; and whoever disbelieves (Hajj being an obligation), then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Independent of the entire world.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In order to perform this obligatory act, every year millions of Muslims wear simple and similar attire irrespective of their colour and race forgetting their disagreements and gather on the blessed land of Haram. This moment is not less than a great blessing for the Hajis (pilgrims) because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows special blessings upon these fortunate people. When Muslims hear about these blessings and favours, they also develop the deep desire and yearning for the visit to these sacred places. Let’s listen to four sayings of beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Hajj and the excellence with which Hajis are blessed:

1. A Haji will intercede on behalf of 400 (Muslims) of his family members and will get out of sins as if he was born from the womb of his mother that day. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 7, Hadees 11837)

2. Perform Hajj! Because Hajj washes away sins as water washes away dirt.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 416, Raqm 4997)

3. When you meet a Haji, greet him and shake hands with him, and ask him to make Du’a for your forgiveness before he enters his home, because he has been forgiven. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 472, Hadees 2538)

4. The one who leaves with the intention for Hajj and then dies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write the reward of the one who performs Hajj till the Judgement Day and the one who leaves with the intention for ‘Umrah and then dies, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write for him the reward of the one who performs ‘Umrah till the Judgement Day. (Musnad Abu Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 441, Hadees 6327)

حضورِ کعبہ حاضر ہیں حرم کی خاک پر سر ہے

بڑی سرکار میں پہنچے مُقدَّر یاوَری پر ہے

نہ ہم آنے کے لائق تھے نہ قابل مُنہ دکھانے کے

مگر ان کا کرم ذرہ نواز و بندہ پَروَر ہے

خبر کیا ہے بھکاری کیا کیا نعمتیں پائیں

یہ اُونچا گھر ہے اس کی بھیک اندازہ سے باہر ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has great blessings and favours upon Hajis; He forgives all of their sins; forgives them and by virtue of the blessings of the Du’a of a Haji, there is a strong hope that people will also be forgiven. The one, who leaves his home with the intention to perform Hajj and dies on the way, the reward of Hajj is written till the Judgement Day for him.

Remember! Visit to sacred Makkah and Madinah is such a great opportunity which is only bestowed on the fortunate ones. There are a large number of rich people who dream to visit London and Paris day and night and some have already enjoyed the visit of these countries, but despite being able to afford, they are still deprived of performing the obligatory act like Hajj and also deprived of the privilege of visiting the blessed Raudah of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . But there are many devotees of Makkah and Madinah who despite being extremely poor make Du’a with sincerity and steadfastness, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts their Du’as and blesses them with the opportunity to perform Hajj and visit sacred Madinah.

دعا جو نکلی تھی دل سے آخر پلٹ کے مقبول ہو کے آئی

وہ جذبہ جس میں تڑپ تھی سچی وہ جذبہ آخر کو کام آیا

The fortunate person, who attains this privilege, should express thanks for this great blessing and recall his sins while being hopeful for the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ during this sacred pilgrimage. He should not waste its blessed moments in useless activities by considering it merely entertainment like

other journeys of the world. After reaching the boundaries of Haram, he should be busy all the time with worship and recitation of the Holy Quran and should perform good deeds abundantly because the reward for one good deed is equal to the reward of 100,000 good deeds in Makkah Mukarramah.

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: The Sawm of one day in Makkah Mukarramah is equal to the Siyam of 100,000 days. To give Sadaqah of one dirham is equal to the Sadaqah of 100,000 dirhams. Similarly, every good deed is equal to 100,000 good deeds. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 734)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed! One good deed in Makkah Mukarramah is equal to 100,000 good deeds. Surely it is pleasing, but it should also be kept in mind that the sin committed over there is also equal to 100,000 sins. Therefore the fortunate person, who is blessed with the visit of these sacred places, should be extremely careful so that he may not commit any sin knowingly or unknowingly. Alas! Some unwise people are found committing sins without any hesitation, regardless of the respect and reverence of these sacred places. They do not abstain from the sins like unlawful gaze, lie, backbiting, tale-telling, breaking of promise, hurting the feeling of Muslims without any Shar’i reason, etc.

Alas! If we tell one lie in sacred Haram, hurt only one Muslim’s feelings without any Shar’i reason, commit the sin of backbiting or tale-telling only once, so it means we have committed these sins 100,000 times each at any other place, اَلْاَمَان وَالْحَفِیْظ . For the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Wake up and perform many good deeds during the Hajj and make Du’as for the acceptance of your Hajj. Practise and try your best to stay away from useless activities. Some people, who are in the bad habit of using mobile phone all the time, do not refrain from its use and inform their fans about the condition of every moment through social media.

Hajj, ‘Umrah and selfie

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 17 of his booklet ‘ Selfie kay 30 Ibratnaak

Waqi’aat ’ [Perils of Selfie Mania]: Selfie lovers are found pursuing their passion for selfies during the sacred pilgrimage for Hajj and ‘Umrah. They instantly take a selfie at a place they like and post it on the social media, making it public. Selfies are even made while kissing Hajar-e-Aswad or performing Tawaf and Sa’ee, which disturbs the flow of those who perform Tawaf and Sa’ee. People collide or fall over each other which cause great difficulty to them. In an attempt to take selfies while worshiping, the selfie-taking people lose their own concentration and devotion as well. Some people are found taking selfies even near the blessed Golden Grille in front of the sacred Muwajahah. Some overly bold people even turn their back towards the sacred Muwajahah for taking a selfie. Would that we could make our mind that the pilgrimage to sacred Haramayn is for earning Sawab [reward], not for taking selfies!

حرم کی زَمیں اور قدم رکھ کے چلنا

ارے سر کا موقع ہے اَو جانے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The fortunate people who are privileged to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah should bear in mind the manners of visiting these sacred places. Abstaining from useless conversation and the unnecessary use of mobile phone they should continue to do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recite the Holy Quran, Salat-’Alan-Nabi and invoke Tasbih and Tahleel all the time. In addition to these, they should also bear in mind the parables of pious saints’, and the practices they used to adopt during the pilgrimage and visit of these sacred places. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing the yearning for Hajj will be increased. Let’s listen to three parables of pious saints about the pilgrimage for Hajj.

1. Best traveling companion

A person humbly said to Sayyiduna Haatim Asam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, ‘Tell me about the travelling companion in whose company I may reach in the court of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because I have intended to go on a pilgrimage for Hajj?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘O brother! If you want a companion, make recitation of the Holy Quran your companion. If you want a comrade, make angels your comrades. If you want a friend, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the Owner of the hearts of His friends. If you want provisions for the journey, belief in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best provision. Considering the Holy Ka’bah to be in front of you, perform Tawaf happily.’ (Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 125)

2. Hajj of Shaykh Shibli

When Sayyiduna Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to have Wuqoof-e-‘Arafat [stay at ‘Arafat in Hajj on ninth Zul-Hajj], he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained absolutely silent. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not utter even a single word till sunset. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed Meelayn Akhdarayn [ مِيۡلَيۡن اَخۡضَرَيۡن ] during Sa’ee, tears started flowing from his eyes and he recited the following couplets: I am walking in such a state that I have set the seal of Your love on my heart so that no one else can enter it except You. Would that I could keep my eyes closed and not see anyone until I see You! When the tears start rolling down the cheeks, it becomes obvious who is really weeping and who is just acting.

(Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 100)

3. Why shouldn’t I weep?

It has been narrated that Sayyiduna Abu Ja’far Muhammad Bin ‘Ali Bin Husayn ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left for Hajj. When he entered Masjid-ul-Haraam, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started weeping bitterly and loudly as he saw the Holy Ka’bah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was humbly asked, ‘Undoubtedly, People are looking at you; please do not weep so loudly.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Why should I not weep! Perhaps, due to my weeping, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will have mercy on me and I will succeed in His court on the Day of Judgement.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then performed Tawaf of Baytullah and offered Salah at Maqaam-e-Ibraheem . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lifted his head from Sajdah, the place of Sajdah was wet with his tears. (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 113)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat’s pilgrimage for Hajj

A’la Hadrat had great devotion to sacred Baytullah and Haramayn; this parable is enriched with depth of feelings.

On the occasion of second Hajj, when he was in Makkah Mu’azzamah, he had a high fever. A Turkish doctor named Ramazan Afandi gave him a kind of salt in very little amount and said: Drink after mixing it with Zamzam water. Having heard this, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt delighted and said: Dr. Afandi suggested me the medicine which was my favourite, that is, blessed Zamzam. It is my habit that I do not drink stale water and if I drink I immediately suffer from cold. But see the blessing of Zamzam that I drank Zamzam water when I was healthy, ill, during the day, during the night, fresh and stale; when I open my eyes at night due to the high fever, I rinsed my mouth and drank Zamzam water, I drank it before Wudu and after Wudu. When I calculated as to how much water I consumed in almost my 82-day stay in Makkah Mu’azzamah, I found that I consumed almost 4 maunds (1 maund=37.3242kg) of Zamzam water. (Anwaar-e-Raza, pp. 382)

یہ زمزم اِس لیے ہے جس لیے اس کو پیے کوئی

اِسی زمزم میں جنّت ہے اِسی زمزم میں کوثر ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! When our pious predecessors used to go on a pilgrimage for Hajj, they would remain busy with Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and recitation of the Holy Quran all the time. They would weep out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and would be delighted greatly with the blessings of Zamzam water. So whenever we are privileged to perform Hajj, we should avoid the activities which may disturb the concentration of other people’s Hajj as well as ours.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Holiday I’tikaf’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Not only is Dawat-e-Islami protecting Muslims from sins and persuading them to perform good deeds through its written work, it is also making great efforts to spread the call towards righteousness by means of 12 Madani activities. One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘I’tikaf on Yaum-e-Ta’teel’ [Holiday I’tikaf]. With the help of this Madani activity the following aims are achieved. Such as: To start the Madani activity in the areas of the city or surroundings (villages, rural areas, towns, etc.) where Madani activities have yet to be started, to strengthen the Madani activities, to prepare the preachers who propagate the call towards righteousness and to fill empty Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims.

According to the schedule of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’, Sunnahs and manners are taught to local people; they are also made to memorize everyday Du’as, and are imparted with the knowledge of the basic rulings on Salah, etc., on a weekly holiday from Zuhr Salah to ‘Asr or ‘Asr to Maghrib. The students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah along with the local responsible Islamic brothers are also privileged to perform the Madani activity of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The whole schedule of ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’ is followed in a Masjid and by virtue of its blessing the Masajid remain filled with Salah-offering Muslims.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see someone going to a Masjid quite often, bear witness to his faith, because in Ayah 18 of Surah At-Taubah, part 10, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the Masajid of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish Salah and pay the obligatory charity. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who loves the Masjid, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him His beloved. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 2, pp. 135, Raqm 2031)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also become the part of Masjid-filling movement after associating ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. The Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami tries to fill Masajid with Salah-offering people, guides people to become Salah-offering, protects them from sins and guides them to the path of Salah and Sunnah. So far, by virtue of the blessing of this environment, many sinful people have been reformed and real Madani revolution has occurred in their lives. For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing Madani parable of a Madani revolution that occurred in the life of a devotee of Rasool who repented of [watching] films and dramas.

Madani parable

An Islamic brother who lives at Shalimar Town (Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore) gave the following account: I was an extremely wicked person and had indulged in many evils such as watching films and dramas daily, teasing girls, friendship with loafers and wandering with them till late night. Even my relatives did not like to meet me; they would resent when I went to their home and would prevent their children from meeting me.

Luckily, the dark night of my sins turned into a bright morning when a devotee of Rasool belonging to Dawat-e-Islami met me very politely and tried to persuade me to travel with a Madani Qafilah. Impressed by his polite behaviour and his sincere invitation, I travelled with a Madani Qafilah during which the company of the devotees of Rasool caused a Madani transformation in my life.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of the company of devotees of Rasool in the Madani Qafilah, I received the gift of repentance as well as the enthusiasm to wear dress and turban according to the blessed Sunnah. The very same relatives that once used to avoid me now meet me affectionately. I was once the worst in my family but now I have become the dearest due to the blessings of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Qafilahs, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy serving Islam in approximately 104 departments. One of the departments is ‘Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah’. This Majlis has been formed to properly impart Madani training to the Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters who want to go for Hajj and ‘Umrah and to teach them the manners and essential rulings on how to visit the Holy Ka’bah and blessed Haram and the blessed court of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The trained preachers Islamic brothers, who are included in this Majlis, visit the Haji camps every year and impart Tarbiyyat [training] to Hajj pilgrims, whereas preacher Islamic sisters impart Tarbiyyat [training] to Hajjan (female Hajj pilgrims). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of this Majlis, the books ‘ Rafiq-ul-Haramayn ’ and ‘ Rafiq-ul-Mu’tamireen ’ written by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه are presented as gifts to the Muslims who go to Makkah and Madinah for Hajj and visiting blessed Madinah so that they can succeed in performing this worship in a proper and perfect way.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has a deep yearning for virtuous deeds and also persuades Muslim Ummah to perform good deeds. He has given us ‘19 Madani In’amaat for Hajj and pilgrimage to Madinah’ in the form of questions. Listen to the Du’a which he has made for those who act upon these Madani In’amaat: O the Lord of Mustafa! Anyone who spends his time as per these Madani In’amaat during the pilgrimage for ‘Umrah, enable him to have the sight of Your Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of his death.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Some Madani pearls are presented to Hajis as well as non-Hajis in order to maintain the desire and taste for worship. Let’s listen to some Madani pearls about it and try to keep them in mind.

First method

Make your mind to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for fulfilling the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with great interest and pleasure, acting upon the Sunnah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and offering Salah and performing other acts of worship during the Hajj. When this mind-set is made that we have to obey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter, we will not disobey Shar’i commandments in any matter whether it is Hajj or Salah, Sawm or Zakah, etc., اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Second method

Dear Islamic brothers! Have firm belief in the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم along with Divine obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in order to maintain the yearning for worship. Always keep in mind especially these two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. A Haji will intercede on behalf of 400 (Muslims) of his family members and will get out of sins as if he was born from the womb of his mother that day. (Kanz-ul-’Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 7, Hadees 11837)

Perform Hajj, because Hajj washes away sins as water washes away dirt.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 416, Raqm 4997)

When Haji feels sure that by virtue of the blessing of his Hajj, all of his sins have been forgiven and sins have been removed from his book of deeds, his interest and tendency will grow for worship and he will start hating sins and performing virtuous deeds, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Third method

Dear Islamic brothers! It is also very useful to have the company of pious people in order to sustain the interest and desire for worship.

If we have the company of the righteous people, who perform worship and recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr and recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly, attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and perform other virtuous acts, so by seeing

them we will also develop the desire to perform worship and the interest to perform these acts and then we will succeed in performing virtuous deeds. But the question is that how can we recognize a good environment?

Remember! The sign of a best society and good environment is that it is based on fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, piety, righteousness and abstinence. In such a society and environment, people love each other for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and take care of each other’s rights. The people who are associated with this environment are the people of great character. If someone adopts their company, he will also follow them. The sign of a good friend has been mentioned in a blessed Hadees: A good companion is the one who reminds you of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when you see him, his conversation increases your deeds and his deed reminds you of the Hereafter.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 247, Hadees 4063)

Therefore, in particular Hajis and we all in general, after completing the necessary worldly activities, should be in seclusion or have the company of such serious and Sunnah-practising Islamic brothers, whose conversation may increase the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to improve our own world and the Hereafter. These Islamic brothers, from time to time, point out our apparent evils and inner diseases and also suggest us their cure. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, visiting such people sometimes brings about forgiveness. Sayyiduna Yazeed Bin Haroon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Yazeed Waasiti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in a dream and asked: How did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I was forgiven. I asked: What was the cause? He replied: Once on Friday after ‘Asr Salah, Sayyiduna Abu ‘Amr Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sat with us. He made Du’a, so we said Aameen; thus when I departed this life, I was forgiven.

(Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 282)

مجھے بے حساب بخش دے میرے مولٰی

تجھے واسِطہ نیک بندوں کا یا ربّ

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a global non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah is a great blessing for us. It is not hidden from anyone that by virtue of the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, countless bad people have become the embodiment of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and possessed devotion to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The steps which Dawat-e-Islami has taken to reform the society and to provide the youth with scholarly, practising and moral training are as clear as the day. You also attain the blessings of the company of devotees of Rasool after associating yourself with this Madani environment and develop the passion for becoming a practising Muslim.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Fourth method

Dear Islamic brothers! Set a target daily in order to develop the passion for virtuous deeds such as, I will try my best to offer Nafl acts of worship in such- and-such number along with offering all five Salahs with Jama’at (congregation) throughout the day. By doing it, you will have desire for virtuous deeds. Our pious predecessors would also set a target daily to perform righteous deeds and then they would try their best to achieve it. These personages would keep themselves busy with acts of worship and spiritual exercises even after achieving their target.

Sayyiduna ‘Aamir Bin ‘Abd-e-Qays رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of the best worshippers (in his age). He made 1000 Rak’aat compulsory everyday for himself to offer. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain busy constantly offering Salah from Ishraq to the time of ‘Asr. After completing Salah he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go back to his home in the state that his calves and feet would be swollen. (Despite performing so much worship, the state of his humbleness was that) Addressing to his Nafs he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would say: O Nafs! Were you created to worship or to enjoin to do evil? By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will keep you so much busy with (virtuous) deeds that you will not be able to even get to the bed. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, pp. 97)

مِری زِندگی بس تِری بندگی میں

ہی اے کاش گُزرے سدا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

No guarantee of life!

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely there is no guarantee of life. We do not know when it ends. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid! We might not even get time to repent of our sins and might lose our Hereafter. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ save us from bad death and enable us to die in faith with peace! For making our Hereafter better, we should set a target to perform some virtuous deeds everyday so that we can attain steadfastness in performing virtuous deeds. The easy way to do it is acting upon Madani In’amaat and doing Fikr-e-Madinah, we should fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat with good intentions everyday.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Madani In’amaat is such a great way of earning good deeds daily that due to it we get plenty of opportunities to perform good deeds from morning to night until we go to bed. For example, calling Sada-e-Madinah, that is, to wake up Muslims for Fajr Salah in the morning, reciting or listening to 3 Ayahs with their translation and Tafseer in the Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah, offering Nawafil with Ishraq and Chasht, offering all five-time Salah in the first row with Jama’at, with the first Takbeer, reciting Ayat-ul-Kursi, Surah Al-Ikhlas and Tasbih-e-Fatimah at least once after all five Salah and at the time of sleeping, reciting or listening to Surah Al-Mulk at night, being privileged to give and listen to Madani Dars (Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat etc.), and teaching and studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adult) after ‘Isha Salah. Acting upon many other Madani In’amaat including attending weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, Madani Muzakarahs and joining Madani visits for presenting the call towards righteousness, one can get lots of rewards.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to perform worship and recite the Holy Quran with sincerity and steadfastness!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! When a true devotee attains the privilege of visiting sacred Madinah, it is his wish that his abode become sacred Madinah, his remaining life be spent there and he be blessed with the life and death in the blessed feet of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah Ziyauddin Ahmad Madani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of these fortunate people. Let’s listen briefly about his blessed life.

Brief introduction to Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah

The name of Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is Ziyauddin Ahmad. He would say: My birth name is ‘Ahmad Mukhtar’. My grandfather Shaykh Qutbuddeen Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept my name ‘Ziyauddin’ later on. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 1294 AH [in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal] at ‘Kalaswala’ of district Ziyakot (Sialkot is called ‘Ziyakot’ in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, in relation to Ziyauddin) on Monday.

Early education

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received his early education from his grandfather and then from a renowned Islamic scholar and mystic ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Husayn Naqshbandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in Ziyakot (Sialkot), then he went to Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore) and received education from the great Islamic scholars of Markaz-ul-Awliya. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then started attending the Halqah Dars of an Islamic scholar, ‘Allamah Maulana Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Surati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and received education from him for approximately 4 years.

Demise and blessed funeral

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Madinah Munawwarah from Baghdad Mu’alla in 1327 AH and was privileged to live approximately for 75 years over there. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Hajj 60 times. (Sayyidi Qutb-e-Madinah, pp. 8; Anwaar Qutb-e-Madinah, pp. 307)

On Friday, 4 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, 1401 AH (02-10-81), as the Muazzin of Masjid-un-Nabawi recited ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ’, Sayyidi Qu t b-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited Kalimah and then departed this life ‘ اِنَّا لِلّٰهِ وَ اِنَّآ اِلَيۡهِ رٰجِعُوۡنَ ’.

Having given a bath, shroud was spread and under the blessed head of Qutb-e-Madinah the sacred dust of the blessed Hujrah-e-Maqsoorah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was kept. The blessed Ghussalah [the blessed water poured over the sacred grave] of the Beloved Rasool’s luminous grave and many other sacred relics were also kept. Then the blessed shroud was tied. The blessed bier was lifted after Salat-ul-‘Asr in the echoes of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and Qasidah Burdah.

Sayyidi Qu t b-e-Madinah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was buried just at a distance of two yards from the sacred luminous shrine of Sayyida-tun-Nisa Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon him and forgive us without any accountability for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Excellence of first 10 days of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a best opportunity to earn virtuous deeds has come. Of course, the holy month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam has begun. How great the blessings of this holy month are as according to a blessed Hadees the first ten days of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam are superior to all days after the holy month of Ramadan. Let’s listen to four blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of first 10 days in order to develop passion for virtuous deeds and to keep ourselves busy with worship:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There is no other day more superior and favourite than these 10 days to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so recite Tahleel (لَاۤاِلٰہَ اِلَّااﷲُ) and Takbeer (اَﷲُ اَکْبَرُ) abundantly in these days, because these are the days of Tahleel, Takbeer and the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 356, Hadees3758)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes His worship to be performed much more during the first 10 days of Zul-Hijjah than the worship performed on any other day. The Sawm of its each day is equal to the Siyam of one year and the worship of its each night is equal to Shab-e-Qadr. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 192, Hadees.758)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I have an expectation from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the Sawm of ‘Arafat (i.e. 9 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam) removes the sins [committed] in previous year and next year.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The Sawm of ‘Arafat (i.e. 9 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam) is equal to one thousand Siyam. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 357, Hadees. 3764) But the Sawm of the day of ‘Arafat (i.e. 9 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam) is Makruh for the Hajj pilgrim who is in ‘Arafat.

Sayyiduna Ibn Khuzaymah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated from Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade [Haji] to observe Sawm in ‘Arafat on the day of ‘Arafat (i.e. 9 th Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam). (Ibn Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 292, Hadees 2101)

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the virtues of Hajj. Such as

One who performs Hajj will intercede on behalf of 400 people of his family members.

Sins of the one who performs Hajj are forgiven.

The one who performs Hajj is blessed with the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

If the person who performs Hajj passes away on the way, for him the reward of Hajj will be written till the Judgement Day.

There is very good news for Haji: The one who has performed Hajj of Baytullah or performed ‘Umrah, so he is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore if he dies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him enter Paradise and if he returns to his home (safely), he will return with reward and benefit.

The person who has performed Hajj, ‘Umrah or become Ghazi and then passes away on the way, so for him too Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes the reward of Hajj, ‘Umrah and Ghazi till the Judgement Day.

One who leaves in this path for Hajj or ‘Umrah and dies, he will not be summoned, nor will he face accountability and he will be asked: Enter Paradise.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to perform Hajj of Baytullah again and again and also enable us to visit Haramayn Tayyibayn with great reverence! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept the spending of money, the pilgrimage and the Hajj of the fortunate Muslims who are privileged to perform Hajj this year!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of wearing ‘Imamah

Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of wearing ‘Imamah, taken from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’ by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi:

First 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Offering Salah whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 10,000 virtues. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 31, Hadees 3621)

2. One Salat-ul-Jumu’ah performed whilst wearing an ‘Imamah is equivalent to 70 without it. (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 37, pp. 355)

3. Bind the ‘Imamah whilst standing facing the Qiblah.

(Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 38)

4. The Sunnah of the ‘Imamah is that it should not be shorter than 2½ yards in length, nor should it be longer than 6 yards, and it should be bound in a dome-like fashion. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 186)

5. If you have a large kerchief with which you can produce enough folds to cover the who l e head, then it will be considered as an ‘Imamah. It is Makruh to bind a small kerchief with which one can only produce one or two folds. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 7, pp. 299)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

