Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Ramadan

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ حَیْثُمَا کُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَّیَ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَکُمْ تَبْلُغُنِیْ ’ Recite Salat upon me wherever you are as your Salat reaches me.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Hadees 2729)

قبر میں خوب کام آتی ہے بیکسوں کی ہے یارِ غار درود

بیٹھتے اُٹھتے جاگتے سوتے ہو اِلٰہی مِرا شِعار دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

Dear Islamic sisters! Millions of thanks be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has bestowed the blessed month of Ramadan upon us. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ willing so, we will very soon be enjoying the blessings of Ramadan. Let’s listen to great virtues of Ramadan.

First night of the month of Ramadan

On page 35 of his renowned book ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan (amended) ’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: On the first blessed Ramadan, a breeze called Museerah blows beneath the great ‘Arsh, shaking the leaves of Heavenly trees and making such a pleasing sound that no one has ever heard better sound than this. Having heard this sound big-eyed Houris [beautiful Heavenly maidens] appear and stand on the tall palaces of Paradise and say: ‘Is there anyone who asks for our hand in marriage from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that we perform Nikah with him?’ These Houris then ask the Daaroghah (custodian) of Paradise, (Sayyiduna) Ridwan عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, ‘What night is tonight?’ (Sayyiduna) Ridwan عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام recites Talbiyah (i.e. Labbayk) in reply and says: ‘It is the first night of the blessed month of Ramadan; the doors of Paradise have been opened for the Sawm-observing Muslims of the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 60, Hadees 23)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed how affectionate and kind Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to Sawm-observing believers! He عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens the doors of Paradise for them in the blessed month of Ramadan. Moreover, this blessed month of Ramadan has great status and excellence because Paradise is decorated for the whole year in order to welcome it (Ramadan).

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘No doubt, Paradise is decorated for blessed Ramadan from the beginning of the year to the next year.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further stated, ‘On the first day of Ramadan, a breeze blows beneath Heavenly trees to the large-eyed Houris [maidens of Heaven]. They humbly say, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make such bondmen out of Your bondmen our husband by seeing whom we feel pleased, and when they see us they feel pleased too.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 312, Hadees 3633)

Congratulations! The sacred month of Ramadan is coming very soon with abundant mercy and forgiveness. The greatness and excellence of the blessed month of Ramadan can also be judged by the fact that as soon as this blessed

month of Ramadan would begin with its blessings, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would congratulate his blessed companions and give them good news upon its arrival.

Congratulating on arrival of blessed Ramadan

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that giving good news to his blessed companions the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would state: The sacred month of Ramadan, which is extremely blessed, has come to you. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made its Siyam obligatory on you. The doors of Paradise are opened and the doors of Hell are closed and Satans are tied up in it (Ramadan). There is a night in it, that is better than a thousand months and the one who is deprived of its goodness is absolutely deprived.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 3, pp. 331, Hadees 9001)

Regarding this blessed Hadees the renowned commentator, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Since this sacred month of Ramadan has both Hissee [ حِسِّی ] (i.e. that can be felt) and Ghaybi (hidden) blessings, another name of it is also ‘a blessed month’. In the blessed month of Ramadan, there is blessing naturally in the sustenance of believers and the reward for every virtuous deed is seventy fold or even more than this. From this blessed Hadees it has become obvious that feeling happy and wishing one another upon the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan are Sunnah. Moreover, the arrival of a thing makes us happy, so we should also feel sad when it leaves.

It is for this reason majority of Muslims feel sad and weep on Jumu’a-tul-Wada’ [the last Friday of blessed Ramadan], and Khutaba recite some farewell words on this day so that Muslims make efforts to perform more and more virtuous deeds by valuing the remaining time of this blessed month. All these have been derived from this blessed Hadees. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 137)

Dear Islamic sisters! In the Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, an atmosphere of great happiness is created with the arrival of the blessed month of Ramadan that is full of mercy and forgiveness; it is given a great and big welcome, but farewell is bidden to it in tears as well when this blessed month leaves us.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written the following beautiful Kalam [poetry] to express his joy upon the arrival of this blessed month to show gratitude to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for this great blessing and to highlight the greatness and significance of this month of forgiveness.

مرحبا صد مرحبا!

مرحبا صد مرحبا پھر آمدِ رَمَضَان ہے كِھل اُٹھے مُرجھائے دل تازہ ہوا اِیمان ہے

ہم گُناہگاروں پہ یہ كتنا بڑا احسان ہے یا خُدا تُونے عطا پھر كر دیا رَمَضَان ہے

تجھ پہ صَدقے جاؤں رَمَضَاں تُو عَظِیمُ الشّان ہے كہ خدا نے تجھ میں ہی نازِل كیا قرآن ہے

اَبرِ رَحمت چھا گیا ہے اور سَماں ہے نُور نُور فَضلِ ربّ سے مَغفِرَت كا ہو گیا سامان ہے

ہر گھڑی رحمت بھری ہے ہر طرف ہیں بَرَكتیں ماہِ رَمَضَاں رَحمتوں اور بَرَكتوں كی كان ہے

آ گیا رَمَضَاں عبادت پر کَمَر اب باندھ لو فیض لے لو جلد كہ دِن تیس كا مہمان ہے

عاصیوں كی مغفرت كا لے كر آیا ہے پیام جُھوم جاؤ مُجرِمو رَمَضاں مَہِ غُفران ہے

یا الٰہی تُو مدینے میں كبھی رَمَضَاں دكھا مُدّتوں سے دل میں یہ عطّار كے ارمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sixty thousand are forgiven every night

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn-e-Mas’ood رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم stated: Every night of blessed Ramadan, a Munadi [i.e. a proclaimer] calls out in the skies until the dawn, ‘O the one who asks for goodness! Complete (i.e. keep obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and rejoice, and O the evil one! Give up your evil and take an admonitory lesson . Is there anyone who wants forgiveness so that his need be fulfilled? Is there anyone who repents so that his repentance be accepted? Is there anyone who makes Du’a so that his Du’a be answered? Is there anyone who asks for something so that he be bestowed what he asks for?’ Each night of Ramadan at the time of

Iftar, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ frees sixty thousand sinners from Hell and on the day of Eid, sinners equal to the total of the whole month are forgiven.’

(Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 146)

Dear Islamic sisters! The moments of the month of Ramadan are so blessed that Divine mercy and forgiveness are being distributed to the servants in its every moment. This is the sacred month in which days are spent in observing Siyam and nights in reciting the Holy Quran, and both these i.e. Sawm and Holy Quran will intercede for Muslims on the Judgement Day.

Sawm and Holy Quran will intercede

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sawm and Quran will intercede for a bondman on the Day of Judgement. Sawm will humbly say, ‘O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I prevented him from eating and satisfying his desires during the day, accept my intercession for him.’ The Holy Quran will say, ‘I prevented him from sleeping in the night, accept my intercession for him.’ Hence the intercession of both will be accepted.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, pp. 586, vol. 2, Hadees 6637)

Reason for forgiveness

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had intended to punish the Ummah of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would never have bestowed upon them Ramadan and Surah Al-Ikhlas.’

(Nuzha-tul-Majalis, vol. 1, pp. 216)

Home Dars, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Home Dars is also an excellent source of giving your family members the mind-set to perform other Fard [obligatory] acts regularly besides observing Siyam of the blessed month of Ramadan, making them the ones who act upon Sunnahs and creating Madani environment at home. Home Dars is a source of gaining the blessings of the blessed month of Ramadan and developing the significance of Fard (obligatory) Siyam in your hearts. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, ‘Home Dars’ is the source of protecting the faith of family

members and reforming their deeds. By virtue of the blessing of ‘Home Dars’ unity is created. By virtue of its blessings one gets rid of quarrels and discords. By virtue of the blessing of Home Dars, one increases her Islamic knowledge day by day. Therefore, give or listen to the Dars at least once daily from Faizan-e-Sunnat at your homes in order to develop Madani environment. Dars can also be given from the annotated and referenced booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه according to situation. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to perform other Madani activities as well with zeal and enthusiasm along with ‘Home Dars’! Aameen

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

Privilege of seeing the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream

Given below is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Sargodha, Punjab (Pakistan): I was not a practicing Muslim before I associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. I was the epitome of fashion and fond of visiting public parks because of the company of my modern friends. I would neither offer Salah nor observe Sawm. As for Islamic veiling, I was allergic to it. All I would do was to watch movies on TV and VCR. I was so headstrong that I did not listen to anyone. I was a student of 1 st year in those days.

One day, someone gifted me a cassette of Sunnah-inspiring speech named ‘ Wudu and Science ’ released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. The speech was informative and very interesting. Inspired by listening to the speech, I started attending the locally-held Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami for Islamic sisters. The blessings of Madani environment started brightening my dull life. With the passage of time I succeeded in repenting of my bad habits, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By the blessing of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I started wearing Madani Burqa’ after some time. My family members, relatives and friends were all very astonished at this amazing change. They all felt as if they had been dreaming but it was a reality.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Now I give Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat at my home. Besides it, I also make efforts to step up Madani activities with other Islamic sisters. It has become my routine to fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet performing Fikr-e-

Madinah daily and to submit it every month. One day, I was blessed with a great favour for which I should always remain grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When I went to sleep at night, fortune smiled on me. I dreamt that the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami was going on. I was sitting near a window through which breeze was coming. I involuntarily looked out of the window and saw clouds in the sky. I started reciting Salam-‘Alan-Nabi spontaneously:

Ay saba Mustafa say keh dayna

Gham kay maaray Salam kehtay hayn

Suddenly, a very handsome personage with a luminous face wearing white clothes and a green ‘Imamah on his head came, smiling. I was lost in seeing the blessed face. I then heard a voice. ‘He is the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم .’ I woke up. Overwhelmed, I was moved to tears on my good fortune. I wished I had seen the blessed face again and again. Every night, I still sleep reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi with the hope that fortune may again smile on me.

Kya khabar aaj ki shab deed ka arman niklay

Apni ankhaun ko ‘aqeedat say bichaye rakhiye

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would worship abundantly

Dear Islamic sisters! We should worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly especially in the blessed month of Ramadan and perform every such act that earns us the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If we do not attain forgiveness even in this blessed month then when will we attain it? Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be very much engrossed in Divine worship with the arrival of this blessed month.

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said, ‘When the month of Ramadan would come, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly

worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and did not come to his luminous bed throughout the month.’ (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansur, vol. 1, pp. 449)

Dear Islamic sisters! We should also spend the whole month of Ramadan in pleasing our Lord and worshiping Him. Surely the one who attains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ succeeds in the world and the Hereafter, and the blessed month of Ramadan is the best source of attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is the month of great glory and dignity having countless features. One of them is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed the Holy Quran in this blessed month. In Ayah 185 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated about the revelation of the Holy Quran and the month of Ramadan:

شَهْرُ رَمَضَانَ الَّذِیْۤ اُنْزِلَ فِیْهِ الْقُرْاٰنُ هُدًى لِّلنَّاسِ وَ بَیِّنٰتٍ مِّنَ الْهُدٰى وَ الْفُرْقَانِۚ-فَمَنْ شَهِدَ مِنْكُمُ الشَّهْرَ فَلْیَصُمْهُؕ-وَ مَنْ كَانَ مَرِیْضًا اَوْ عَلٰى سَفَرٍ فَعِدَّةٌ مِّنْ اَیَّامٍ اُخَرَؕ-یُرِیْدُ اللّٰهُ بِكُمُ الْیُسْرَ وَ لَا یُرِیْدُ بِكُمُ الْعُسْرَ٘-وَ لِتُكْمِلُوا الْعِدَّةَ وَ لِتُكَبِّرُوا اللّٰهَ عَلٰى مَا هَدٰىكُمْ وَ لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُوْنَ(۱۸۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The month of Ramadan in which was sent down the Quran - the guidance for mankind, the direction and the clear criterion (to judge between right and wrong). So whoever among you finds this month, must fast for the (whole) month; and whoever is sick or on a journey, may fast the same number in other days. Allah desires ease for you and does not desire hardship for you so that you complete the count (of fasts), and glorify Allah as He has guided you, and so that you may be grateful. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 185)

Dear Islamic sisters! In this blessed Ayah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also commanded us to observe Siyam in the blessed month of Ramadan. Remember! After admitting the oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Risalat and having faith in all the essentials of Islam the way Salah has been made obligatory for every Muslim, similarly, the Siyam of blessed Ramadan have also been made obligatory for every Muslim (man and woman) sane and the one who has reached puberty.

It is stated in Durr-e-Mukhtar: Siyam were made obligatory on the 10 Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 2 Hijri. (Durr-e-Mukhtar ma’ Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 330)

Reason why Sawm was made obligatory

Dear Islamic sisters! Most of the acts in Islam have been fixed to remind us of some faith-refreshing events. For example, the Sa’ee of Hajis between Safa and Marwah reminds us of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She walked and ran between both these hills seven times in search of water for her Beloved son Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loved this act of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, therefore to make this blessed Sunnah of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remain alive, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Sa’ee of Safa and Marwah Wajib for Hajjis and Umrah-performing people . In the same way, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spent some days of blessed Ramadan in the cave of Hira. During this period of time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would avoid eating during the day and get busy doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the night. Hence in order to remind us of these glorious days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Siyam obligatory so that the Sunnah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم continues to exist. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 935)

How strong is faith of Sawm-observing person!

Dear Islamic sisters! It is very hot, the throat and lips are getting dry due to thirst, water is available, but a Sawm-observing person does not even look at it; food is available, but she does not extend even her hand to it despite being very hungry. Just imagine, how strong the faith of this person is in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! It is because she knows that her actions can be hidden from the entire world, but they cannot be concealed from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This belief of her in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the practical result of a perfect Sawm, because other acts of worship are performed by any apparent movements, but Sawm is related to internal [form of worship] whose state no one knows except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If she (Sawm observing person) eats and drinks something secretly, people will still feel that she is observing Sawm, however, she is protecting herself from eating and drinking only due to Divine fear. That is why the Sawm-observing people will be blessed with abundant gifts and rewards. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of Sawm and rejoice:

1. Expiation for past sins

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who observes the Sawm of Ramadan, recognizes its limits and avoids the thing that should be avoided, so it will be the expiation for [the sins] which he has committed before.’ (Al-Ihsan bittarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 5, pp. 183, Hadees 3424)

2. Reward for observing Sawm

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Every righteous act of a man is rewarded ten to seven hundred times. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘ اِلَّا الصَّوۡمَ فَاِنَّهُ لِيۡ وَ اَنَا اَجۡزِيۡ بِهٖ ’ i.e. except Sawm because Sawm is for Me and I will give its reward Myself . A bondman refrains from eating and satisfying his desires only for My sake. There are two joys for a Sawm-observing person: One, at the time of Iftar and the other one when he meets his Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The smell that comes from the mouth of a Sawm-observing person is purer than Musk [a special type of fragrance] in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 580, Hadees 1151)

3. Sawm is a shield

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Sawm is a shield; when any of you is observing Sawm, he should neither utter words of indecency nor shout. Then if someone else abuses him or wants to fight against him, he should say, I am observing Sawm. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 624, Hadees 1894)

Special reward for Sawm

Dear Islamic sisters! In the abovementioned blessed Ahadees many features of observing Sawm have been stated. Very good news is for the Sawm-observing person who observes Sawm in a way as it should be observed, that is to say, if she protects all her body parts from committing sins besides avoiding eating, drinking and intercourse, so the Sawm by the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will become the expiation for all her past sins.

Moreover, the saying of the blessed Hadees has to be paid special attention in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has told us the blessed saying

of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘ فَاِنَّهُ لِيۡ وَ اَ نَا اَجۡزِيۡ بِهٖ ’ i.e. Sawm is for Me and I will give its reward Myself. Some blessed Muhaddiseen [1] have also read this blessed saying of Hadees-e-Qudsi in the following manner ‘ اَنَا اُجۡزٰي بِه  ’ as it is stated in Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, then it will mean ‘ I am Myself the reward for the Sawm ’. سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه! i.e. After observing Sawm a Sawm-observing person finds Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ himself. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 945-947)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sleeping is also worship

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Abi Awfa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The sleep of a Sawm-observing person is worship and his silence is doing Tasbih [glorifying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] and his Du’a is answered and his deed is accepted.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 415, Hadees 3938)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How fortunate a Sawm-observing person is! Her sleep is worship, silence is Tasbih of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Du’as and good deeds are accepted in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

تیرے کرم سے اے کریم! کون سی شے ملی نہیں

جھولی ہماری تنگ ہے تیرے یہاں کمی نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Body parts ’ doing Tasbi h

The mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The bondman who spends his morning observing Sawm, the doors of the sky are opened for him, his body parts make Tasbih [glorification of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] and the angels living

in the sky of this world keep making Du’a for his forgiveness until sunset. If he offers one or two Rak’aat Salah, they become Noor for him in the skies and his wives amongst large-eyed Houris [Heavenly maidens] say, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ send him to us, we are very eager to see him and if he recites ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ ’ or ‘ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰه ’ or ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر ’, then seventy thousand angels keep writing rewards for him until sunset.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 299, Hadees 3591)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Look, how fortunate a Sawm-observing person is! The doors of the sky are opened for him and his body parts make Tasbih of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels living in the sky of this world make Du’a for his forgiveness until sunset. When he offers Salah, there is light for him in the sky and large-eyed Houris [heavenly maidens], who are appointed for him, wait for his arrival in Paradise. Further, if he says لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ ’ or ‘ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰه ’ or ‘ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَر ’, seventy thousand angels write reward for him until sunset. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 956)

Dear Islamic sisters! Not only will Sawm-observing people receive abundant mercy in the world, but they will also attain great status and rank in the Hereafter.

Gold Daster-Khuwan [dining mat]

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated, ‘On the Day of Judgement, a gold Daster-Khuwan [a dining mat] will be kept for Sawm-observing people, though people will be waiting [for their accountability].’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 214, Hadees 23640)

Heavenly fruits

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The one whom Sawm prevents from eating or drinking what he desires, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him eat from heavenly fruits and quench his thirst with heavenly wine.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 3917)

Jami’a-tul-Madinah (lil-Banaat)

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani movement of Devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami has not only persuaded the Islamic brothers to obey their parents through establishing many departments at the same time Dawat-e-Islami has also established many departments for Islamic sisters to make them the apple of their eyes. One of these departments is Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (lil-Banaat [for Islamic sisters]). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under this Majlis approximately 265 Jami’a-tul-Madinah (lil-Banaat) have been established within and outside Pakistan. Wherein, 16217 student Islamic sisters are undergoing Dars-e-Nizami (Aalimah Course) free of charge. More or less 3600 and approximately 4014 Islamic sisters have had the privilege to complete Dars-e-Nizami and Faizan-e-Shari’at Course respectively. As such, come forward and have your sisters and daughters take admission in Jami’a-tul-Madinah lil- Banaat and initiate a cause of Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward) for yourself.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! When the time for getting reward of deeds would come, the Sawm observing persons will get countless reward.

Immeasurable reward

Sayyiduna Ka’b-ul-Ahbaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that it was stated: On the Day of Judgement, a Munadi [someone who calls out] will call out like this: Every deed-performer will be rewarded equal to his deed/deeds except for Islamic scholars and Sawm-observing people as they will be rewarded beyond measure. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 413, Hadees 3928)

Dear Islamic sisters! It has become obvious that what we sow in the world, we shall reap the same. Islamic scholars and Sawm-observing Muslims are very fortunate because they will be blessed with immeasurable reward on the Judgement Day.

Remember! When Sawm-observing people will start entering Paradise, they will also be given special honour at that time.

Heavenly door

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, there is a door in Heaven, called Rayyan [ رَیَّان ]. On the Day of Judgement, Sawm-observing people will enter through it; no one else except for them will enter. It will be asked, ‘Where are the Sawm-observing people?’ Hence these people will stand up; no one else will enter through this door except them. The door will be closed when they have entered. Hence no one else will enter through this door. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 625, Hadees 1896)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How fortunate the Swam-observing Muslims are! They will be given special honour on the Day of Judgement; they will have to go to Paradise. Other fortunate Muslims will also be entering Paradise in a large number, but a Sawm-observing person will especially enter Paradise through ‘Bab-ur-Rayyan.’

Dear Islamic sisters! The way observing Sawm is an act of great excellence and privilege, similarly, not observing Sawm brings about deprivation and misfortune.

Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ مَنْ اَدْرَکَ رَمَضَانَ وَلَمْ یَصُمْهُ فَقَدْ شَقِیَ ’ the one who gets the month of Ramadan and does not observe Siyam of it, he is unfortunate . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 62, Hadees 3871)

Loss of missing one Sawm

If someone misses a single Sawm of Ramadan deliberately without any Shar’i reason, she cannot attain the excellence of that missing Sawm, though now she observes Sawm throughout her life.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who does not observe one Sawm of Ramadan without any Shar’i reason or without any illness, so the Sawm of [his] entire life cannot be its Qada, though he observes later on. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 638, Hadees 1934)

It means that in any way she cannot attain the excellence that can be attained by observing Sawm in the blessed month of Ramadan. Therefore, we should not miss the great blessing like the Sawm of Ramadan at all due to being heedless. We should fulfil the rights of this blessed month in a proper way lest we become deprived of forgiveness due to our negligence regarding the right of Ramadan. Remember! The one who remains deprived of forgiveness even in this month suffers a very big loss.

Be disgrace d!

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: May the person, in front of whom my Zikr is done but he does not recite Salat upon me, be disgraced! May the person, who finds the month of Ramadan, but the month leaves before he is forgiven, be disgraced! May the person, with whom his parents attain old age, but they do not make him enter Paradise (i.e. that person does not attain Paradise by serving his old parents.), be disgraced! (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 61, Hadees 7455)

Dear Islamic sisters! We too should perform abundant acts of worship in the blessed month of Ramadan and perform virtuous deeds abundantly in order to accumulate the blessings and mercy of this blessed month and get the gift of forgiveness from the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Life is very short, therefore we should value these moments and instead of wasting the sacred moments of Ramadan in useless and bad activities we should try to spend them in reciting the Holy Quran, doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and in other virtuous deeds.

Introduction to book “Blessings of Ramadan”

Dear Islamic sisters, please save the precious moments of Blessed Ramadan. Avoid useless and frolic activities! Life is too short! Take it as a golden chance. Instead of wasting time in singing songs and indulging in various sinful activities, try to spend your time in the recitation of Holy Quran, Zikr and Salat and Salam. The study of a prominent book written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar

Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه namely “ Blessings of Ramadan ” will prove to be immensely beneficial. This book covers almost all important rulings pertaining to blessed Ramadan, e.g., Salah, Sawm, Taraweeh are included in this remarkable book. You are also requested to make an intention to study this book. In addition to Urdu, this book has also been translated into various languages of the world. This book can be read online, printed out and downloaded from Dawat-e-Islami’s website: www.dawateislami.net . Please make an intention to read and deliver or listen to Dars from this book.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners of Salam

1 It is Sunnah to say Salam when meeting a Muslim.

2 Ninety mercies descend upon the one who takes the lead in Salam and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

3 One receives 10 virtues for saying ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمْ ﴾, 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ ﴾ is further added, 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ ﴾ is also added.

4 The person who takes the lead in saying Salam is free from arrogance.

5 The person one who takes the lead in saying Salam is close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

6 The best words of Salam are ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ ﴾ i.e., may peace be upon you, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

7 The best words for the reply to Salam are as follows (وَعَلَیْـکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ) i.e., and may peace be upon you too, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

8 It is Wajib [obligatory] to reply to Salam immediately in a voice audible to the one who greeted you with Salam.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcements

On page 388 of the book ‘ Jannat mayn Lay Jaanay Walay A’maal ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, it is narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O Abu Zar! If you learn one Ayah from the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the morning, it is better for you than offering 100 Rak’aat Nafl, and if you learn one chapter from Islamic knowledge in the morning, whether you act upon it or not, it is better for you than offering 1000 Rak’aat Nawafil.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-us-Sunnah, vol. 1, pp. 142, Raqm 219)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! To gain this blessing, a 20 day short course “Faizan-e-Tilawat-e-Quran” is being conducted from 1 st Ramadan at area level. This course would consist of learning correct recitation of the Holy Quran, Islamic sisters would also be privileged to listen to the translation and Tafseer (Interesting Quranic parables). It is a Madani request to all Islamic sisters that you yourself

participate in this course and persuade other Islamic sisters by making individual efforts on them and have them undergo this course too.

All Zimmahdar Islamic sisters should also make this intention that in order to gain the blessings of the Holy month of Ramadan, we will definitely participate in 2 important Madani activities i.e. “Tarbiyyati Halqah” and “Weekly Madani Daurah”. All Islamic sisters please make intention that we will regularly attend Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, because if we regularly attend the Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ we will keep on learning good things, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

