اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written in his booklet ‘ Ailing Worshipper ’:

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O People! Undoubtedly, on the Judgement Day, one who attains salvation from its terror and accountability will be the one who amongst you would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’ (Al-Firdaus bima Sawr-ul-Khattab, vol. 5, pp. 277, Hadees 8175)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

(The Madani pearls of Pakistan and Aalami Majlis-e-Mushawarat, Majlis Overseas are also included.)

Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)

2 to 5 Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam, 1436 AH (17 to 20 August, 2015)

Keep observing Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. seeking explanation from yourself)

In verse 18 of Surah Al-Hashr, part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

یٰۤاَ یُّہَا ا لَّذِ یۡنَ اٰمَنُو ا اتَّقُو ا اللّٰہَ وَ لۡتَنۡظُرۡ نَفۡسٌ مَّا قَدَّ مَتۡ لِغَدٍ ۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! Fear Allah, and every soul must see what it has sent ahead for tomorrow.

(Part 28, Surah Al-Hashr, verse 18)

Regarding this verse it is stated in ‘ Tafseer Ibn Kaseer ’: i.e. Seek explanation from yourselves before you will be called to account and ponder what you are saving that you will have with you to the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows all of your deeds and conditions; your smallest and biggest both deeds are not concealed from Him. (Tafseer Ibn Kaseer, vol. 8, pp. 106)

Regarding this verse, it is stated in ‘ Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor ’: Delivering the sermon Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said, ‘O people! Remember you are advancing towards that death in the morning and evening which is invisible to your eyes. If possible be ready when death approaches you, but this cannot happen if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not enable you to do this. One group of people remembered the death of others, but forgot their own death, therefore Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden you to be like them. In verse 19 of Surah Al-Hashr, part 28, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

وَ لَا تَکُوۡ نُوۡ ا کَا لَّذِیۡنَ نَسُو ا اللّٰہَ فَاَ نۡسٰہُمۡ اَنۡفُسَہُمۡ ؕ اُو لٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ ا لۡفٰسِقُوۡ نَ ﴿۱۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not be like those who forgot Allah – He therefore put them into hardship making them forget themselves; it is they who are the sinners. (Part 28, Surah Al-Hashr, verse 19)

Regarding this verse, it is sated in ‘ Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor ’: Where are those people today? Whom you called your brother; they have got access to those

things which they sent. Where are the despots who got forts constructed and around the forts got strong walls built? Today they have been buried under stony earth and mounds. This is the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whose wonders do not perish and its Noor does not become fade. You with its Noor brighten your today for upcoming dark tomorrow; seek advice from the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His commandments because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has praised such group of people in verse 90 of Surah Al-Anbiya of part 17:

کَانُوۡ ا یُسٰرِعُوۡ نَ فِی الۡخَیۡرٰتِ وَ یَدۡ عُوۡنَنَا رَغَبًا وَّ رَہَبًا ؕ وَ کَانُوۡ ا لَنَا خٰشِعِیۡنَ ﴿۹۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed they used to hasten to perform good deeds, and pray to Us with hope and fear; and used to weep before Us.

(Part 17, Surah Al-Anbiya, verse 90)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: ‘ حَاسِبُوۡا اَنۡفُسَكُمۡ قَبۡلَ اَنۡ تُحَاسَبُوۡا ’ i.e. Seek explanation from your Nafs before you are held accountable. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 208, Hadees 2467)

Try to protect yourself from the love for fame and respect. In his great book named ‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat ma’ Makkay Madinay ki Ziyaratayn, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written: Some people have the habit of meeting ordinary people humbly and are very polite to them, but their attitude to their parents, siblings, wife and children is very aggressive, unethical and sometimes very heart-tormenting. Why? Because the demonstration of good manners with people brings about fame, whereas there is not much hope for gaining respect and fame if good treatment is made at home. Therefore such people are very polite to people. Likewise, the Islamic brothers who whole-heartedly make sacrifices for some Mustahab acts, are found negligent in performing Faraaid and Wajibat. For example, they become negligent in obeying to parents, teaching manners to children as per Shari’ah, and in getting Fard ‘Uloom (mandatory knowledge). As a matter of fact, the acts

which bring about fame and praise, are performed easily despite them being difficult because the pleasure which are obtained due to the love for fame and respect, makes a very tough act easy. Remember! Love for fame and respect is sheer destruction. Listen to two sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for admonition:

1. Avoid matching the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with the love of the praise made by people, it may destroy your deeds.

(Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 223, Hadees 1567)

2. Two hungry wolves do not destroy the goat pen so much as the love for fame and respect & wealth does to the religion of a Muslim.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 166, Hadees 2383)

Keeping the 3 rd volume of Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, page 616-617 in the front, some Madani pearls about ‘Love for Fame and Respect’ are presented: Love for fame and respect and ostentation are from those final acts which destroy Nafs and from internal deception. Islamic scholars, worshippers and those who think about the Hereafter are made to suffer; it is like this that such people some time make great efforts in performing worship, controlling Nafsani desires, and also succeed in protecting themselves from suspicions; they also protect their parts of body from apparent sins, but get pleasure by mentioning their righteous acts, religious achievements and the efforts they make to spread the call towards righteousness such as I have done it, done that, I have delivered Bayan there, delivered Bayan here, such and such dates are booked for Bayanaat (delivering Bayan or reciting Na’at), I had been there in the Madani Mashwarah till that time and that’s why due to taking no rest I am tired, and I have lost my voice. I have to travel with a Madani Qafilah, I have travelled with so many Madani Qafilahs or travelled so-and-so cities, countries, etc. with Madani Qafilahs or for Madani activities. By disclosing knowledge and practice to the creation they get fame and the pleasure of reverence, applause and respect.

When such a person starts getting popularity and fame so his Nafs wants to disclose knowledge and practice more and more to the people, so that he may get more and more respect. Hence he finds further ways to inform the creation regarding his good deeds and educational skills and is not content, knowing that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is aware of his deeds and He will give him the reward. Instead he is happy with this that people praise and applaud him and is not content with the praise he gets from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Nafs knows this thing very well that when people come to know this that so-and-so person has given up Nafsani desires, avoids suspicions, spends much money in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, takes great pains in performing worship, weeps a lot in fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and in the love of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, performs lots of Madani activities, gets worried a lot for the reformation of the people, travels and makes others travel a lot with Madani Qafilahs, observes the Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, eyes and stomach, daily gives so-and-so number of Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat, regularly attends Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults), performs Sada-e-Madinah, goes for area-visit for calling people towards righteousness, so those people will praise him a lot.

They will see him with great respect. His meeting and his Ziyarat [sight] will be considered a great privilege and the wealth for Hereafter. They will request him earnestly to have two steps at their home or shop for attaining blessings, to go for the Du’a, to have tea with them, to accept the food invitation. They will consider it good for the both worlds if follow his advice. Wherever he is seen, he will be served and greeted [said Salam]; they will become greedy for eating and drinking his leftovers; they will surpass each other for getting the thing or gift which is touched by him; they will kiss the thing which he has given; they will kiss his hands and feet. They will talk to him humbly in a low voice with the appellations such as Hadrat! Hudoor! Ya Sayyidi! etc.; they will beseech him earnestly with their hands together head bowed for Du’a; they will stand up in Majalis [gatherings] for showing reverence when he arrives; he will be made to sit on a reverent place; they will stand before him with both hands tied; they will not start eating the meal before him; they will humbly present him gifts and Nazranahs. While entertaining him they will consider themselves very small (i.e. servant and slave); during selling and buying goods and other matters they will show

kindness to him; they will sell good quality things in inexpensive prices or free to him; for his work they will bow in submission to show respect. Nafs gets much pleasure by such devotional manners of people and this is that pleasure which dominates all the desires. Due to the pleasure of such devotions, he considers sins a trivial thing to be given up because Nafs instead of making this patient of love for fame and respect commit a sin advises that if you commit a sin your devotees will get away from you.

Thus by the cooperation of Nafs and in order to maintain honour amongst the devotees he feels ease in the intensity of steadfastness of worship because he internally recognizes the best pleasure of all and the biggest lust of all (i.e. the pleasure which is obtained by the devotion of people). He falls in this misconception that he is spending his life for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and according to His will, though he spends it according to that hidden desire (love for fame and respect) which even extremely wise people could not understand. He considers himself sincere in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the one who abstains from acts declared Haraam by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . As a matter of fact, it is not like this, he is attaining lots of pleasure in front of people by adornment and pretence. He is very content with whatever respect and popularity he attains. In this way, he loses the reward of acts of worship and good deeds and his name is written in the list of hypocrites and this naïve is getting it that he has attained the closeness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(‘Aashiqan-e-Rasool ki 130 Hikayaat ma’ Makkay Madinay ki Ziyaratayn, pp. 103-107)

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that I heard the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘The person who seeks Allah’s pleasure, along with the displeasure of people (i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be pleased whether people are pleased or displeased, he does not care.) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will save him from the harm of the people and the person who wants to please people, along with the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will hand him over to the people.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Bab: 65, vol. 4, pp. 186, Hadees 2422)

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی has written: The person whose heart is

busy getting the pleasure of people and making his status in the eyes of the people is in deception, because if he duly gets the gnosis of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will come to know that creation cannot make him independent of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ about anything; his profit and loss are under the Divine control of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and there is no one the lord of profit and loss but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is displeased with him, then people are not pleased with him either. In fact, the pleasure of creation cannot be judged, therefore to attain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is excellent. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 300)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم would distribute the whole goods among the deserving people present in Bayt-ul-Maal, then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would sweep the floor and offer two Rak’aat Salah. When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was asked for doing it, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘On the Judgement Day, this place will witness that goods were not stored here nor goods were stopped to be given to the deserving people.’

(Tareekh-e-Damishq, vol. 42, pp. 478)

1. The words which our blessed Murshid does not like should not be uttered by us. It is stated on page 127 of the book named ‘ Adaab-e-Murshid-e-Kamil ’: Mureed should be acquainted with the nature of his Murshid so that he may not do anything contrary to his nature. Instead he should occupy himself with those acts more and more, which a perfect Murshid likes.

2. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه likes that whenever a Haji is talked about, so his name should also be mentioned, so that things can be understood easily. For example ‘Haji Hassan’, ‘Haji Bilal’, etc.

The son of ‘Attar, Haji Muhammad Bilal Raza Attari Al-Madani مَـدَّظِـلُّـهُ الۡـعَـالِی will give time to deliver Bayan in those Kabinat which prepare one level

1. of 63-Day Madani Tarbiyyati Course (number of participants: at least 63 Islamic brothers). The responsibility of these Ijtima’aat is assigned to Rukn-e-Shura Haji Muhammad Farooq Jeelani ‘Attari. He will also prepare the schedule of Bayanaat.

2. The city where Haji Bilal Raza Attari Al-Madani is to deliver the Bayan, the Nigran-e-Kabinat and Rukn-e-Shura of that city should also attend it.

3. From 11 September, 2015, the son of Attar Haji Bilal Raza ‘Attari Al-Madani will travel with Madani Qafilah of Tanzania (Bilali countries), اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

4. In order to get lots of organizational benefits from this opportunity, the responsible Islamic brothers of all countries, in particular, the Nigran-e-Kabinah and Nigran-e-Kabinat of nearby countries should make 12- month and 1-month (30-day) Madani Qafilahs travel from their countries during this schedule.

5. During this period of time, Madani Qafilah Majlis should arrange Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course and Madani Tarbiyyati Course.

6. The Bayanaat of Arakeen-e-Shura Haji Abdul Habib Attari, Haji Muhammad Azhar Attari, and Qaari Muhammad Saleem Attari will be delivered in different departments. Haji Waqar-ul-Madinah Attari and Haji Yafoor Raza Attari should deliver the Bayanaat in their own departments, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

7. An important responsible Islamic brother should have the sense of proportion as to which work he has to do himself and which work he has to assign to others.

1. He may do some work himself and may assign some work (i.e. progress of responsible Islamic brother etc.) to others. The work which one should do himself, if assigned to others can be detrimental.

Parable: A king needed salt. He himself got up and went to get it. The servants said, ‘Your Majesty! We will bring it to you.’ The king said, ‘I need a small amount of salt, but you will get me sacks of salt’.

2. When responsible Islamic brothers hold a Madani Mashwarah, they should make this intention: I will think deeply about serving Islam and Sunniyat and the solution of the problems Muslims are facing. Due to this thought, moral standard will be raised and it will help take better decisions. Otherwise, due to a lack of thought there is a fear of being confined.

3. Where are we and where should we be? Understand the significance of your position and power.

4. We should hold Madani Mashwarah after fixing time and deciding advance Madani pearls properly. The result of unarranged Mashwarah is not powerful.

5. It will be our privilege if we succeed in serving Islam and Sunniyat in any way.

6. Advance schedule must be sent to your Nigran; it will help us adhere to perform Madani activities.

Nigran-e-Kabinah should focus attention to 12 Madani activities in his Kabinah; he should hold Madani Mashwarah in different divisions by making a schedule to improve Madani activities and should participate practically in Madani activities. Departments can be divided among three active and strong members of Kabinah (apart from Nigran Division Mushawarat) in order to strengthen departments on Kabinah level. The departments which are alike should be combined together

1. and then be given to one responsible Islamic brother who should hold monthly Madani Mashwarahs to improve the appointment of Islamic brothers, schedule and the progress of the department.

§ Departments according to Nigran-e-Kabinah

1. Majlis Madani In’amaat

2. Majlis Madani Qafilah

3. Majlis Maliyat

4. Majlis Progress

5. Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults)

6. Majlis Madani work for Islamic Sisters

7. Majlis Weekly Ijtima’

8. Majlis Madani Donation Box

§ Rukn-e-Majlis Makki Departments

1. Majlis Education Department

2. Majlis Doctors

3. Majlis Faizan-e-Murshid

4. Majlis Veterinary Doctors

5. Madani Channel Relay Majlis

6. Majlis Contact

7. Majlis Broadcast

8. Majlis Advocates and Judges

9. Majlis Medical Treatment

10. Majlis Homeopathic Doctors

11. Majlis Hakeem

12. Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah

13. Majlis Madani Muzakarah

§ Rukn-e-Majlis Madani Departments

1. Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah

2. Majlis Traders of Meat

3. Majlis Dars-e-Faizan-e-Sunnat

4. Majlis ‘Ushr & Surrounding Villages

5. Majlis Madani Parables

6. Majlis Tajheez-o-Takfeen

7. Majlis for Special Islamic Brothers

8. Majlis of Saints’ Shrines

9. Traders’ Majlis

10. Majlis Tahaffuz-e-Awraq-e-Muqaddasah

11. Majlis Courses

12. Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub

13. Majlis Transport

§ Rukn-e-Majlis ‘Attari Departments

1. Majlis Maktaba-tul-Madinah

2. Majlis Aimmah-e-Masajid

3. Majlis Khuddam-ul-Masajid

4. Majlis Booklets Distribution

5. Majlis Langer-e-Razawiyyah

6. Majlis Hifazati Umoor

7. Majlis Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah

8. Majlis Property

9. Majlis I’tikaf

10. Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah

11. Majlis Collective Qurbani

12. Majlis Construction

13. Majlis Contact with Islamic Scholars and Mashaikh

§ In order to focus great attention of Nigran-e-Kabinah to 12 Madani activities, it has been decided in the Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami that the departments of Kabinah level will be divided among 3 Islamic brothers in addition to Nigran-e-Kabinah. (The detail of division is mentioned above.)

§ In addition to the Nigran of Division Mushawarat, the Nigran of those 8 departments who Director Nigran Kabinah will deal with, will also attend the Madani Mashwarah of Kabinah. Moreover, the 3 Islamic brothers among whom the departments will be divided according to above-mentioned division will also attend.

§ The 3 Islamic brothers among whom Makki, Madani and Attari departments will be divided, will hold the Mashwarah of the members of Kabinah of their own departments one or two days prior to the Madani Mashwarah of Kabinah. Duration: 2 to 2 and a half hours. The individual progress of every member of Kabinah and collective progress of the department will be analysed in this Madani Mashwarah and upcoming targets will be set.

§ The 3 Islamic brothers among whom departments will be divided will participate with the overall progress of their departments in the Kabinah Mashwarah.

§ No one among these 3 Islamic brothers should be called Vice Nigran Kabinah.

§ Nigran-e-Kabinah, as per need, can hold the Madani Mashwarah of any one of the 47 departments.

§ The members of departments, as per need, should contact the responsible Islamic brother, who holds monthly Madani Mashwarah (Makki, Madani, ‘Attari), if necessary, they can have Mashwarah with Nigran-e-Kabinah as well.

Division of departments according to Nigran-e-Kabinat and 4-member Majlis on Kabinat Level

(1) Majlis Madani In’amaat (2) Majlis Madani Qafilah (3) Majlis Maliyat (4) Majlis Progress (5) Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Adults (6) Majlis Madani Activities for Islamic Sisters (7) Majlis Weekly Ijtima’ (8) Majlis Madani Donation Box (9) Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah (10) Majlis of Traders (11) Majlis Ijarah (12) Education Department (13) Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah for boys (14) Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah for girls (15) Madrasa-tul-Madinah for boys (16) Madrasa-tul-Madinah for girls (17) Maktaba-tul-Madinah (18) Majlis ‘Ushr & Surrounding villages (19) Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah (20) Majlis Construction (21) Majlis Faizan-e-Murshid .

§ Rukn-e-Majlis Makki Departments:

(1) Majlis Property (2) Majlis Doctors (3) Majlis Veterinary Doctors (4) Majlis Hakeem (5) Majlis Homeopathic Doctors (6) Majlis Medical Treatment (7) Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah (8) Madani Channel Relay Majlis (9) Majlis Madani Muzakarah (10) Majlis Traders for Meat (11) Majlis of Advocates and Judges (12) Majlis Security (13) Majlis Broadcast

§ Rukn-e-Majlis Madani Departments:

(1) Majlis Transport (2) Majlis Artist Reformation (3) Majlis Special Islamic Brothers (4) Majlis Prisoners Reformation (5) Majlis Tahaffuz-e-Awraq-e-Muqaddasah (6) Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub (7) Majlis of Collective Animal Sacrifice (8) Majlis of Players Reformation (9) Majlis of Madani Parables (10) Majlis Langer-e-Rizawiyyah (11) Majlis Ta’wizat-e-‘Attariyyah (12) Majlis I’tikaf (13) Majlis Taqseem-e-Rasaail

§ Rukn Majlis Attari Departments:

(1) Majlis of Saints’ Shrines (2) Majlis of Contact with Islamic Scholars and Mashaaikh (3) Majlis Aimmah-e-Masajid (4) Majlis Khuddam-ul-Masajid (5) Majlis Dars-e-Faizan-e-Sunnat (6) Majlis of Funeral Rites (7) Majlis

Courses (8) Majlis Imamat Course (9) Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (courses) (10) Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (online) (11) Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (boarding) (12) Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (part-time) (13) Majlis Al-Madinah Library (14) Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah

1.

2.

3.

4. Nigran Kabinat should get the Nigran of weak Madani activities to attend the monthly Madani Mashwarah of active Madani activities Kabinah; it will inspire them and they will become aware of the methods to improve Madani activities.

5. Madani Mashwarahs will be held as per the dates of Mashwarahs which have been fixed in the Madani pearls of Departments. One of the means to improve Madani work is to hold Madani Mashwarah on time regularly as per the set method.

6. Nigran is the one who encourages his subordinate Islamic brothers.

7. Any responsible Islamic brother whose Mashwarah has to be arranged anywhere, if the concerned responsible Islamic brother has to be called, so Majlis Maliyat will pay his travel expenses as per decided, if he is called.

8. The Division of any responsible Islamic brother of any department if has to go to Division and he gathers all the responsible Islamic brothers in the Kabinah, so for this advance written permission is necessary from the concerned Nigran Kabinah and department responsible Islamic brothers of Pakistan level.

9. The Kabinah of any responsible Islamic brother of any department if has to go to Kabinah and gathers all responsible Islamic brothers on Kabinat level, so for this, advance written permission has to be obtained from the concerned Nigran-e-Kabinat and the responsible Islamic brothers of Pakistan Level.

The responsible Islamic brother of the department who has to go to Kabinat if arranges a Tarbiyyati Ijtima’/Madani Mashwarah of all the

1. responsible Islamic brothers on Pakistan level, so for this it is necessary to get written permission from the concerned Rukn-e-Shura and Nigran Pakistan Intizami Kabinah.

Decided Madani pearls: The Nigran Majalis of departments (Pakistan) or the concerned Rukn-e-Shura will arrange Madani Mashwarah of Pakistan level Majlis every month—one month through internet and second month face to face.

It has been decided about the venue of Madani Mashwarah that the venue should be decided for all the attendees, which should be as far as possible in the midst. Some responsible Islamic brothers call responsible Islamic brothers of other cities to their city and arrange their Madani Mashwarah, that’s why some may face troubles as well. Instead of this the middle path or easy venue should be decided for the concerned responsible Islamic brothers so that fares and time could be saved and those coming for the Madani Mashwarah could face less troubles. For example, if all the responsible Islamic brothers of Pakistan have to be gathered at one place, then after seeking permission it is convenient to arrange Madani Mashwarah or Tarbiyyati Ijtima in Madina-tul-Awliya (Multan) as it is the centre of Pakistan. Likewise, if it has to be arranged on Kabinat level, so the centre of Kabinat should be selected (normally where the Madani Markaz/Maktab of Kabinat are situated) and it should be explained in permission letter.

(The venue of Madani Mashwarah of Kabinah Division Level should also be fixed with all those necessary facilities, which not only make things easy for the visitors, but it should have the facility of Network etc. as well, so that if needed, collective Madani Mashwarahs could also be arranged.)

The departments in which courses are being offered should prepare courses for those who are teaching these courses. Every teacher teaching a course should take this course. (Teacher of the courses can be appointed as an employee with the permission of the concerned

1. member of Shura; the basic Madani pearls for the Tarbiyyati course are the targets of these courses; it is like what do you want to get from those who take this course; how could these targets be achieved?

Moreover, the syllabus of course teachers should be designed: What should be taught at what time? And how should it be taught? Only courses should not be taught but mindset for the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami should also be given. Course teachers should also demonstrate their good company practically, then from time to time, there should be the arrangement of test for those taking the course. During the course, important organizational responsible Islamic brothers such as Nigran-e-Kabinah and Nigran-e-Kabinat and members of Shura should also be present.

2. All important departments (with the permission of the concerned member of Shura) should make their own Majlis Course offering at least 6 courses in 12 months. Important personalities should also be persuaded to attend them. Majlis Courses should decide the days and the time of all the courses.

3. All the Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami must attend Madani Muzakarah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Tarbiyyat is done and motivation and development of Madani mindset for different Madani activities are also done in it.

4. All the responsible Islamic brothers should attend the weekly Madani Muzakarah from beginning to end.

5. In the month of Ramadan, most people attended Madani Muzakarahs in Muhammadi Kabinat (Kashmir).

6. Attendees should be in great number in the city, where the OB Van of Madani Channel goes for the Ijtima’ of Madani Muzakarah. (Target of Attendees: Per Zayli Halqah 12 Islamic brothers.)

1. All the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami including Markazi Majlis-e-Shura must watch ‘Madani News of Dawat-e-Islami’ a series of Madani Channel of Dawat-e-Islami.

2. On 1 st Muharram-ul-Haraam 1437 AH, a ‘Madani Donation Telethon’ will be telecast for Dar-ul-Madinah on Madani Channel. One unit will be of Rs. 15,000 because it is one student’s six month fee.

3. Invite in particular, such people in this Madani Donation Telethon, who want to spend money for education. Sit with them and get them to write intentions and then keep in touch with them so that Madani donations can be collected according to their intentions.

4. This Madani Donation Telethon of Dawat-e-Islami should be shown as far as possible in every Dar-ul-Madinah collectively. It will make easy for the local personalities, fathers and guardians to reach.

5. In the last ten days of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, through all the Madani children send written invitation to their parents and guardians for ‘Madani Donation Telethon’.

6. In the last weekly Ijtima of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, this Madani Donation Telethon should be arranged. Moreover, responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami should especially be persuaded to make great efforts for it.

7. The schedule of members of Shura should be made in 20 big cities of Pakistan. For example, personalities should be gathered at 8 venues in Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore). Members of Shura should visit every venue one by one.

Majlis

Units

Majlis

Units

Majlis Ta’wizat-e-Attariyyah

110

Majlis Broadcasting

512

Jami’a-tul-Madinah for boys

700

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (part-time)

313

Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults

512

Madrasa-tul-Madinah for boys

786

Shrines of Saints

313

Madrasa-tul-Madinah for girls

512

Majlis Faizan-e-Murshid

313

Majlis Ijarah

112

Madani In’amaat

112

Majlis Contact

112

Madani Qafilah

112

Majlis for Players Reformation

112

Education Department

112

Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for boys)

786

Maktaba-tul-Madinah

112

Majlis Hajj and ‘Umrah

112

Madani activities for Islamic Sisters

786

Majlis for Prisoners Reformation

112

Majlis of contact with Islamic scholars and Mashaaikh

112

Security

112

‘Ushr & Surrounding Villages

526

Majlis Property

112

Servants of Masajid

112

Majlis Finance

786

Madani Donation Box

526

Majlis Advocates and Judges

112

Majlis Madani parables

112

Majlis Traders

786

Majlis Booklets Distribution

112

Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah

786

Special Islamic Brothers

112

Transport

112

Madani Channel Relay Majlis

112

Majlis Courses

112

Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah

526

Majlis Progress

112

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (courses)

112

Majlis Doctors

313

Majlis Medical Treatment

112

Majlis Homeopathic Doctors

112

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (residential)

526

Majlis Hakeem

112

Majlis Aimmah-e-Masajid

313

Majlis Veterinary Doctors

112

Majlis Weekly Ijtima’

313

Majlis Constructions

112

Majlis Langer-e-Razawiyyah

112

Majlis Traders for Meat

313

Majlis for Artist Reformation

112

Majlis Imamat Course

112

Majlis for Blessed pages Safety

112

Majlis Funeral Rites

112

Al-Madinah Library

112

Majlis I’tikaf

112

Majlis Dars-e-Faizan-e-Sunnat

112

Majlis Collective Animal Sacrifice

112

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (online)

786

Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub

112

Majlis Weekly Madani Muzakarah

112

Majlis IT

226

Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah College University

112

Majlis Madani Course

112

Madani Tarbiyyat Centre

112

1. Improve the system; assign task to your subordinates according to the system; use them according to the system, not your mood.

1. In order to bring further improvement in the system of Madani Marakiz ‘Faizan-e-Madinah’, things should be implemented 100% from the beginning according to the Madani pearls decided by Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah.

2. Member of Shura Haji Muhammad Ameen Attari should write the system of Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi) and present it to Nigran-e-Shura. Target: 7 days

3. The movement that sticks to its principles succeeds.

4. Responsibility always demands sacrifice.

5. It is the main responsibility of all the responsible Islamic brothers including Markazi Majlis-e-Shura to act upon the Madani principles of Madani movement themselves and make others act upon them after implementing them.

6. Our development hinges upon the development of Madani activities. The shining sun of Madani activities shines us.

7. Dawat-e-Islami will keep growing stronger as the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah improve, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

8. Masjid Dars is the fundamental and most important Madani activity of Dawat-e-Islami.

9. Nigran-e-Kabinah and Nigran-e-Division Mushawarat should analyse the progress area-wise; any area where Madani work is decreasing, they should go to this area themselves or send some important responsible Islamic brother and have Madani Mashwarah. They should try to remove this weakness forthwith.

10. Everyone should be given some responsibility; if he is not made Nigran-e-Majlis, then member of Majlis should be made so that he may perform Madani work steady besides being associated with Madani environment and the Madani work may progress.

1. All the responsible Islamic brothers should participate practically in 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

Madani and Madinah should not be excluded in our conversation

(Madani Muzakarah 28 Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam, 1436 AH, September 12, 2015)

Incorrect

Correct

Incorrect

Correct

Incorrect

Correct

Qafilah

Madani Qafilah

Environment

Madani environment

Dress

Madani dress

In’amaat

Madani In’amaat

Activity

Madani activity

Tarbiyyati Course

Madani Tarbiyyati Course

12-Day Course

12-Day Madani Course

Jami’ah

Jami’a-tul-Madinah

Madrasah

Madrasa-tul-Madinah

‘Ilmiyyah

Al-Madina-tul-Ilmiyyah

Maktabah

Maktaba-tul-Madinah

Guldastah

Madani Guldastah

Little boy

Madani Little boy

Little girl

Madani Little girl

Mashwarah

Madani Mashwarah

Channel

Madani Channel

Pad

Madani Pad

Tarbiyyat

Madani Tarbiyyat

Tarbiyyat Centre

Madani Tarbiyyat Centre

Madrasah for Adults

Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Adults

Madrasah Online

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online

Muzakarah

Madani Muzakarah

2. Solutions to the problems are necessary along with Madani development activities so that Madani activities can develop and the Madani activities that have been already in progress can also be improved. It is necessary to maintain the balance in the solutions of the problems and development activities.

3. If we do not resolve organizational problems, so they instead of being sent to us will be sent to Nigran, thus the purpose of organizational division will be defeated.

4. If a problem is not properly resolved itself, so the concerned Nigran-e-Mushawarat should be contacted forthwith for the solution of it so that organizational loss can be avoided.

1. It is useful to arrange Tarbiyyati Ijtima’aat for increasing the knowledge and practice and reducing the problems of responsible Islamic brothers. (The permission of the concerned member of Shura is necessary.)

2. It is necessary for Nigran-e-Kabinah, Nigran-e-Kabinat and members of Shura to be direct in all problems; wherever there is a possibility of the solution to the problems through Majlis, so a Majlis consisting of competent Islamic brothers should be formed to solve the problems.

3. Whenever a person brings a problem to you, so try your best to solve his problem forthwith, otherwise people could have bad opinions and sue you for slander etc.

4. Avoid making lame excuses because it is very difficult for the person making lame excuses to be safe from a grave sin (lie).

5. Nigran Islamic brother should strengthen their contact with their subordinate Islamic brothers.

6. A responsible Islamic brother who does a lot of Madani work fails or is in loss from organizational point of view, when he is not in contact with his Nigrans and subordinate Islamic brothers. It is very essential to be in contact for being active in Madani activities and for fulfilling responsibilities effectively.

7. If you go to such an area, where no mobile network is found causing difficulties to contact, so inform your responsible Islamic brothers prior to going there.

8. Whatever you have to do, think about its all aspects so that you can perform your Madani work being safe from Shar’i and organizational mistakes

1. Overcome your or your subordinate’s first mistake, otherwise several mistakes can be made.

2. Whatever activity we perform for Dawat-e-Islami, should be for the purpose of getting reward. It is necessary that the work should be the act of reward for reward.

3. It can also happen by the benefit of a perfect Murshid (spiritual guide) that the Mureed becomes sensitive in the matters of religion and becomes very careful. Therefore observe your habits yourself to see how active you are in performing Islamic commandments and whether you think about Halal and Haram or not.

4. It is the basic principle of Dawat-e-Islami that every work should be performed as per Shari’ah.

5. Stick to organizational rules; we should not violate the rules.

6. Think about it before assigning anyone with the responsibility whether he tries to act upon the Shari’ah or not.

7. One important responsibility of big level Islamic brothers is to implement any Madani work as per organizational method after taking Shar’i guidelines.

8. The responsible Islamic brother of higher level must be strong and should not get nervous quickly.

9. Departments cannot be strengthened unless Nigran Islamic brothers help with the departments.

10. The department responsible Islamic brothers of Pakistan level must make the schedule of entire Pakistan; they should do Madani Tarbiyyat of the Majlis of their Islamic brothers so that they can become strong from organizational point of view and can be busy and active in Madani activities.

1. It is easy for Nigrans to ask for Islamic brother for their department, but when Islamic brothers have been appointed, it becomes difficult to get work from them.

2. It is the most difficult task to find out capable and competent people. If a Nigran-e-Majlis cannot perform this work, so he will not be able to perform the work of his department as well.

3. From time to time, responsible Islamic brothers should watch Madani Marakiz, Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami’a-tul-Madinah, etc. from investigation point of view not only in the days but also in the nights and whatever weaknesses are found, should be overcome by implementing the Shar’i commandment and organizational method in an easy way after seeking guidelines as per Shari’ah.

4. The Islamic brothers who have to be made I’tikaf Nigran etc. during I’tikaf (Ramadan 1437), Nigran-e-Kabinah should make their complete record then e-mail it to Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Maktab. Target: 41 days

5. Try your best to persuade all responsible Islamic brothers to observe I’tikaf (whole month of Ramadan/last ten days).

6. Members of Shura and Nigran-e-Majlis I’tikaf (Pakistan) should arrange Madani Mashwarahs of the construction of I’tikaf Observing Masajid, whole year organizational responsible Islamic brothers, teachers of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and the students of high levels. They should be persuaded to observe I’tikaf after telling them the virtues of I’tikaf. Appoint Halqah Nigran or I’tikaf Nigran during I’tikaf right now.

7. Those who are ready for I’tikaf and, in particular, those who are to be assigned with the responsibly of Halqah or area during the I’tikaf, Tarbiyyati Ijtima’aat of such brothers should be arranged because those who are if not trained themselves, how could they train other people then?

1. The I’tikaf arranged by Dawat-e-Islami provides a very good opportunity to gain and impart Islamic knowledge and to practice it as well. All the responsible Islamic brothers ought to observe I’tikaf and bless Islamic brothers with their company.

2. Undoubtedly, I’tikaf arranged by Dawat-e-Islami has many advantages for Islam and Sunniyat.

3. Majlis I’tikaf should present the accounts of Langer-e-Razawiyyah done in the I’tikaf of all places and other matters to Ifta Maktab, and then should act upon the Shar’i guidelines received from them.

4. After making efforts the whole year, Majlis I’tikaf should prepare one hundred and 12 thousands Mu’takifeen and 2200 such trained preachers who could train Mu’takifeen while observing I’tikaf themselves.

5. It is a very important responsibility of responsible Islamic brothers to see the matters, schedule and progress of the employees.

6. Nigran-e-Majlis Ijarah (Pakistan) Sayyid Muhammad Asad Attari will visit Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Maktab to help Nigran Pakistan Kabinah for the investigation of the schedule and progress of Pakistan level employed Islamic brothers and Waqf. Nigran Pakistan Intizami Kabinah should himself watch this important Madani work forthwith.

7. The possession of trust should be given to those who deserve it, and those who do not deserve it should not be given at all.

A Majlis will be formed for appointing Aimmah-e-Masajid in the Masajid of posh areas and important societies; these Aimmah-e-Masajid besides keeping their eyes on the constructions of Masajid will search Aimmah Kiraam of pre-requisite conditions from different departments such as Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Dar-ul-Madinah, Madrasa-tul-Madinah, etc. (Member

1. of Shura Haji Yafoor Raza ‘Attari will do this work in consultation with Nigran-e-Shura.

2. The target of Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah is to prepare 150 Aimmah-e-Masajid, who should have Islamic and worldly knowledge, from the current Daura-e-Hadees. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, member of Shura Haji Haafiz Asad ‘Attari Al-Madani will give the progress of this Madani work to Nigran-e-Shura and Nigran-e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah every month.

3. In Madina-tul-Awliya (Multan), Rukn-e-Shura Qaari Muhammad Saleem ‘Attari will teach ‘ Faizan-e-Tajweed and Qira`at Course ’. In this course, specific Islamic brothers fulfilling the prerequisites of this course may take admission. The method of delivering Bayan and the manners of performing the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami should also be taught; pocket money will also be given to course-taking Islamic brothers; how long is the course? What are the prerequisites? These things will be decided by members of Shura themselves. (Member of Shura Qaari Muhammad Saleem ‘Attari will send its progress to Nigran-e-Shura and Nigran-e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah in 19 days.)

4. It is a fact that Islam can be served a lot through Mimber (pulpit) and Mihrab.

5. Careful attention should be paid to the First Level of Jami’a-tul-Madinah (boys). Members of Shura should deliver a Bayan for 25 minutes at least once a week, the same should be done by Madani Islamic brothers of Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat and teachers of Daura-e-Hadees so that students may take interest in Jami’a-tul-Madinah and can be trained in a better way. (These Bayanaat can be delivered in the weekly Tarbiyyati Ijtima (Haafilah) of Jami’a-tul-Madinah.)

6. The level of competent students should be made in the beginning of Daura-e-Hadees after conducting ‘Mudarris Test’ and some part of Teaching Course should be taught daily for some time.

1. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this year (1436 AH) the number of female students for Daura-e-Hadees in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Girls) is 715 and male students for Daura-e-Hadees in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (boys) is 359.

2. The responsibility of Majlis Khud-Kifalat has been given to member of Shura Haji Muhammad Farooq Jeelani ‘Attari.

3. A Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ should be arranged for self-sufficiency.

4. Shar’i, organizational and moral Madani pearls should be made. (Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah has made Madani pearls for Self-sufficiency; benefit can be obtained from them.)

5. Punctuality of schedule should be focused in Madani Qafilahs and the Madani Tarbiyyat of Ameer-e-Qafilah should be done.

6. The date of 1 st Muharram (1437 AH) for making 12-month Madani Qafilahs travel has been set. Nigran-e-Kabinah, Nigran-e-Kabinat and Nigran-e-Majlis (Pakistan) and, in particular, the members of Shura and, in general, all Islamic brothers should persuade more and more Islamic brothers and then send them to Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi) till this date. Target: Per Kabinah and per department at least 12 Islamic brothers

7. The fortunate devotees of Rasool, who will travel for 12 months from 1 st Muharram (1437 AH), will first of all have the privilege of attending Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه for 10 days (from 1 st to 10 th Muharram) اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Different maps should be drawn for Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah) in accordance with the cities and area. Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah should complete this Madani work in 63 days and then send it

1. to the concerned member of Shura and the concerned member of Shura should present its progress to Nigran-e-Shura and Nigran-e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah.

2. A Salah Ijtima’ of Majlis Faizan-e-Murshid was held in Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah (Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi). In this Ijtima’, the rulings of Salah were especially taught.

3. Different topics of Fard ‘Uloom Course with changes should be done through audio for 15 to 20 minutes in Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults. A monthly short written test should be conducted from the attendees for whatever they hear. Remember! Dar-ul-Ifta has not given permission to play a video inside the Masjid and in Fina-e-Masjid, so only audio should be played.

4. This year (1436 AH), in the Madani donations of Rajab, Sha’ban, Ramadan till 25 Shawwal, Ghazali Kabinat in Kabinat (Gulzar-e-Taybah (Sargodha), Mianwali, Bhakkar, Layyah etc.) in terms of percentage and in term of increase in money the department of Hajwayri Kabinat (Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore etc.) in departments Madrasa-tul-Madinah for boys stands first, second Majlis Madani Work for Islamic Sisters and third Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for boys).

5. In the month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, all the responsible Islamic brothers have especially one task: ‘This time we have to collect more skins than anyone else.’ For this, make those responsible Islamic brothers active who did not use to collect skins in the past, thus increasing the number of Islamic brothers collecting skins will increase skins as well.

1. Nigran-e-Kabinah, Nigran-e-Kabinat and members of Shura as far as possible without violating anyone’s right should reduce organizational expenses wherever it is possible.

2. Majlis Maliyat should establish the department of reducing expenses. Target: 41 days (Sayyid Ibraheem ‘Attari will make the Madani pearls for this department. Target: 19 days).

§ Check the system of the Makatib affiliated to Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah) from time to time.

§ The use of AC should be checked in the departments or Makatib where AC is permitted.

§ The use of fans and lights should be checked in Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah); it should also be checked whether lights and fans are on more than the need during Salah timings, prior to Salah and after Salah, in particular, after Salat-ul-Fajr.

3. Majlis Maliyat should make a collective plan for buying things for Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah), Madaris-ul-Madinah, and for Jami’aat-ul-Madinah etc. so that good things could be bought in less prices. There will be no fear of buying extra things. Likewise, the system of stores situated at different places should be made strong; after seeking Shar’i guidance, the things which can be sold, should be sold and the things which can be reused after being repaired should also be used.

4. With the help of Majlis Property Protection the system of stores can be further organized and strengthened in a proper manner.

5. Internet/Madani Channel should not be provided to the Makatib of Madani Marakiz in which they are not needed.

6. Avoid fancy and expensive constructions; there is also a kind of beauty in simplicity.

1. The expenses of the kitchen of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and residential boarding Madrasa-tul-Madinah should be checked by the concerned Kabinat responsible Islamic brothers. Moreover, they should think about the possibility of reducing the expenses where it is possible and then get it finalized with Nigran-e-Majlis or the concerned member of Shura.

2. The metres of electricity and gas should be increased wherever they are needed, so that the bills can be controlled. Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for girls and boys), Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys and girls) and Majlis Faizan-e-Madinah, in particular, should think of it.

3. Members of Shura, Nigran-e-Kabinat and Nigran-e-Kabinah should carefully see the schedule of responsible Islamic brothers, the system of Madani Mashwarahs and the expenses of Langer-e-Razawiyyah.

4. All the Islamic brothers including members of Shura must wear a helmet while riding a motorcycle or scooter. Those sitting behind should also wear a helmet; do not allow anyone to sit behind you without the helmet. Blessed ‘Imamah if be adjusted under the helmet, it is alright, otherwise wear helmet after removing the ‘Imamah. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has laid great emphasis on the law of wearing helmet.

Madani Mashwarah

Aalami Majlis Mushawarat

Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)

4 Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam, 1436 AH (20 August, 2015)

The significance of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat for Islamic sisters can be judged properly from the fact that Aalami Majlis Mushawarat is

1. responsible and accountable for the efforts of reforming Islamic sisters throughout the world and responsible for all other Madani activities and departments.

2. All Madani activities and organizational rules are decided in consultation with Aalami Majlis Mushawarat for Islamic sisters; Aalami Majlis Mushawarat is responsible for their implementation on the Islamic sisters of the entire world.

3. More than half (approximately 52%) of the population of Muslims consists of Islamic sisters; therefore more Madani activities are needed in Islamic sisters.

4. Members of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should themselves have the company of ‘Bint-e-‘Attar Baaji’ and should benefit the subordinate Islamic sisters by their company; they should also be given Madani Tarbiyyat. Remember! Transformation can also be brought by company.

5. Protect yourself from being controversial; the problem which can be solved after forming a Majlis, should be solved by the Majlis.

6. The bigger responsibility a person has, the more he has to be careful. The Islamic sisters of high level should keep this thing in mind where to go and where not to go. There are many parties which are not the right places to go.

7. It is not easy to fulfil the demands of justice, therefore, Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not accept the post of Chief Justice.

8. Try your best to implement the movement of Qufl-e-Madinah among Islamic sisters. Introduce the practice of being quiet to them; be silent so that backbiting and tell-tale can be avoided.

1. Whenever you go to anyone’s home, be very careful not to say anything that may hurt their feelings.

2. Monthly Madani Mashwarahs on Kabinat level should be arranged in which Kabinat responsible Islamic sisters should have face to face Madani Mashwarah of Kabinah responsible Islamic sisters. Current progress, inquiry about set targets, problems and their solutions, analysis of progress and decline, appreciation of good performance, distribution of Madani gifts, and discussion in a proper manner for upcoming targets and advance and progress schedule.

3. Besides Kabinah responsible Islamic sisters, department Zimmahdar Islamic sister on Kabinat level should also attend the Madani Mashwarah of Kabinat Zimmahdar Islamic sister every month. After every three months, Nigran-e-Pakistan Intizami Kabinah Abu Rajab Haji Muhammad Shahid ‘Attari and member of Shura and Nigran-e-Majlis Madani work for Islamic sisters Haji Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid ‘Attari Al-Madani will attend it via the internet.

4. The Kabinah Responsible Islamic sisters of the entire country should come to Bab-ul-Madinah once in twelve months to get Madani pearls from Bint-e-Attar Baaji, Aalami Majlis Mushawarat responsible Baaji and Pakistan Majlis Mushawarat Zimmahdar Baaji. The Islamic sisters of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should give them Madani pearls and encourage on their better performance as well as notify and train them as needed.

5. After every four months, Pakistan Majlis Mushawarat Zimmahdar Islamic sister should arrange a face to face Mashwarah of the entire Kabinat Zimmahdaran of Pakistan and the department responsible Islamic sisters of Pakistan level in Madina-tul-Awliya (Multan) or Sardarabad (Faisalabad). The Nigran Pakistan Intizami Kabinah and member of Shura and Nigran-e-Majlis Madani work for Islamic sisters should attend this Mashwarah via the internet.

1. Every member of Aalami Majlis Mushawarat should have this detail of the appointment as to how many Islamic sisters under them have responsibilities, for example, there are 10 Divisions in 1 Kabinah, so out of these 10 Divisions how many Divisions have the Zimmahdaran. Likewise, there should be the detail of areas, Halqahs and Zayli Halqahs.

2. Up to now the courses which have been taught under Majlis Courses (Islamic sisters), their brief progress such as course name, course date, number of Islamic sisters taking the course, number of Islamic teachers teaching the course, and their progress such as how many teachers were there? How many preachers? How many became ‘Attariyyah? How many have started giving Dars at home and how many Islamic sisters have started wearing Madani Burqa’ etc. should be emailed to Aalami Majlis Mushawarat Zimmahdar, member of Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid ‘Attari Al-Madani. Target: 26 days

3. A course should be designed for the Islamic sisters teaching the courses.

4. A strong method of checking the standard of the course should be followed.

5. Islamic sisters taking a course should be given organizational responsibility during the course. Such a system be made that during the course the Islamic sisters getting their names written for Bay’at could be given Maktoob-e-‘Attar (Bay’at Namah). Without affecting the syllabus of the course, organizational Islamic sisters should attend the course and make the mind of course-taking Islamic sisters for 8 Madani activities and they should also be assigned with some organizational responsibility as per their status.

6. In Madani environment, improvement is made by virtue of responsibility that grants steadfastness as well. It also brings improvement in Madani activities .

1. Islamic sisters (through their Maharim) should also try their best to collect skins of animals sacrificed and to place household Sadaqah Box at homes. Furthermore, they should also persuade others to do these acts.

Madani Mashwarah

Majlis Overseas

Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)

4 Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam, 1436 AH (30 August, 2015)

2. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on 30 th August, 2015, member of Shura and Nigran-e-Majlis Overseas Haji Abdul Habib ‘Attari and member of Shura Haji Muhammad Bilal Raza Attari had a Madani Mashwarah via the internet with Overseas Nigran and members of Kabinah/Kabinat, Zimmahdaran of departments and preachers of Dawat-e-Islami. Their questions were also answered.

3. Maktab Overseas received the attendance of the countries attending this Madani Mashwarah by Skype/Whatsapp: ‘Blessed Arab, India, Bangladesh, South Africa, Tanzania, C-Lanka, South Korea, France, Holland, Hong Kong, Oman, UK, Australia, Uganda, Mauritius, Greece, UAE, Bahrain.’

In the last Madani Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami, this Madani pearl was decided that the distribution of Madani activities of members of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura should be in such a manner that members of Shura for the Madani activities of Pakistan should be separate and separate should be the members of Shura for Madani activities of Overseas. Good news for the Overseas Islamic brothers that اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping in mind the above-mentioned

1. Madani pearls Markazi Majlis-e-Shura has made a 38-member Majlis Overseas for Overseas for the development of Dawat-e-Islami.

1

Member of Shura Haji Abdul Habib Attari

(Nigran Majlis Overseas)

Makki Countries

UK (England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales)

2

Member of Shura Haji Bilal Raza Attari

(advisor of Nigran Majlis Overseas)

Qadiri Countries

North and Latin America (Brazil, Argentine, Chili, Uruguay, Paraguay, Colombia, French Guyana, Guyana, Sernem, Venezuela, Trinidad, Tobago, El Salvador, Ecuador, Panama, Haiti, St. Keats, Bahamas, Barbados, Jamaica, Peru, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Cuba, America, Canada, Green Land, Fake Land, Bermuda, Belles, Cost Arica, Dominica, Grenada, Guatemala, Nicaragua, St. Lussa, St. Vincent)

3

Member of Shura Haji Bilal Raza Attari

Razavi Countries

India, Nepal, Bhutan

4

Member of Shura Haji Ameen Qafilah Attari

Bilali Countries

Eastern and Central Africa (Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Eretria, Congo, Republic Central Africa, People Republic Congo, Gabon, Angola, Cameroon, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Mali, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mauritania, Ivory Cost, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Western Sahara, Burundi)

5

Member of Shura Haji Azhar Attari

Attari Countries

Europe (Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia Herzegovina, Croatia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Check Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungry, Iceland, Italy, Kosovo, Malta, Macedonia, Monaco, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Sweden, Spain, Switzerland, Vatican, Netherland, Norway, Turkey)

6

Member of Shura Muhammad Rafee Attari

Shafai Countries

For East (Mongolia, China, North Korea, South Korea, Japan, Philippine, Vietnam, Macao, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Thailand, Burma, Malaysia, Laos, Cambodia, Singapore, Brunei Darussalam, East Timor, Indonesia, C Lanka, Maldives)

7

Member of Shura Haji Muhammad Ali Attari

Hanafi Countries

Bangladesh

8

Member of Shura Qaari Muhammad Saleem Attari

Baghdadi Countries

Lower Africa (South Africa, Lesotho, Swazi Land, Madagascar, Mauritius, Botswana, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Mozambique, Bassas da India, Rwanda)

9

Haji Muhammad Shahab Attari

Maliki Countries

UAE, Oman

10

Haji Muhammad Masood Attari

Madani Countries

Arab countries (Blessed Arab, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Jordan, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Egypt, Sudan, South Sudan, Libya, Aljazair, Morocco, Tunis)

11

Haji Muhammad Imtiyaz Attari

Hajwayri Countries

Iran, Afghanistan

12

Muhammad Atif Bapu

Bukhari Countries

Russian Estates (Russia, Bella Russia, Ukrainian, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kirgizstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Estonia, Latoya, Lithonia, Finland)

13

Muhammad Abdul Waahid Attari

Hanbali Countries

Oceania (Australia, New Zealand, Samoa, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Solomon, Marshal Iceland, Kiribati, Nauru, Palau, Micronesia, Tonga, Wolao)

1. Keeping in touch with the newly made responsible Islamic brother/member of Shura and former responsible Islamic brother, Overseas Kabinah/Country Islamic brother should spread the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami a lot in their Kabinah/country.

2. Eid-ul-Adha is very near, so wherever sacrificed animals skins are being collected, the responsible Islamic brothers of those places should pay special attention and try to collect more and more skins as compared to previous years.

3. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, like every year, this year also under the Majlis Overseas, collective Qurbani will be arranged for the facility of devotees of Rasool in foreign countries. Majlis Ijtima’ee Qurbani (Overseas) has emailed the details of it to the responsible Islamic brothers of Kabinah/Kabinat.

§ Last date of booking (shares) for Collective Qurbani: September 20, 2015

§ Cow per share: 9900/PKR

§ One goat/sheep: 15000/PKR

§ E-mail ID: overseasqurbani@gmail.com

§ Contact: 0092-21-34921394

4. Overseas responsible Islamic brothers should make lots of efforts for collective Qurbani and send the details of the shares of Qurbani from their own countries till the due date.

5. Collecting the shares of Ijtima’ee Qurbani also has its advantages:

§ The more shares you send after collecting, the more the Qurbani of your country’s Muslim will be correct as per Shari’ah and it will be performed in a better way because by the blessing of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, following the Shar’i guidelines of Ifta Maktab, in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami with Shar’i cautions Ijtima’ee Qurbani is performed.

§ The meat of Qurbani will be sent to Islamic brothers, causing them to feel pleased.

§ The more you advertise Ijtima’ee Qurbani, the more people will contact you for Ijtima’ee Qurbani, it means that they will contact you, and then their records will be saved with you and then later on you may associate them with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

§ The more shares Ijtima’ee Qurbani has, the more skins Dawat-e-Islami will get, benefiting more to Dawat-e-Islami.

1. Remember! No responsible Islamic brother is allowed by Madani Markaz to perform Ijtima’ee Qurbani in any other country except Pakistan. Further, Ijtima’ee Qurbani is not performed in blessed Arab even during the days of Hajj.

2. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, on October 16, 2015 (Wednesday, Muharram-ul-Haraam) the Madani Channel series Telethon for Dar-ul-Madinah will be held. A Madani Mashwarah of Overseas responsible Islamic brothers regarding this will be held regularly via the internet after Eid-ul-Adha.

3. Preachers of Dawat-e-Islami should think about their day and night activities; they should try to protect themselves from the attacks of Nafs and Satan. Internet, mobiles, laptops are all very destructive things and sometimes these things throw a person in that ditch that his career is destroyed these things create such problems for a person which destroy his whole career.

4. Remember! It takes a long time to make reputation, but takes no time to destroy it.

5. Have the company of those who practice Madani In’amaat; include yourself in the movement of Nafli fasts.

6. Protect your gazes; control those matters, which may lead to astray by Nafs and Satan.

1. In the eyes of people we are serving Sunnah a lot leaving our home, homeland, but due to our heedlessness may we not become deserving of Hell.

2. All the responsible Islamic brothers should take the 12-day Madani Course, a favourite of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, as soon as possible.

3. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, from September 11, 2015, the prince of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, preacher of Dawat-e-Islami Haji Abu Hilal Muhammad Bilal Raza Attari will travel to Tanzania (East Africa) for Madani activities. The responsible Islamic brothers of the entire world should make the most of it and have the company of the prince of Attar. More information about it can be obtained from Maktab Overseas.

4. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ will be held from 1 st Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam to 10 th of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam (begins from September 14, 2015) in Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah. It will be telecast live on Madani Channel.

5. On the 2 nd week of November, 2015, Nigran-e-Markazi Majlis-e-Shura and preacher of Dawat-e-Islami Haji Abu Haamid Muhammad Imran Attari will travel to Makki countries (UK etc.) and Attari countries (Europe). During this journey, a 3-day Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ will also be held. Responsible Islamic brothers from all over the world may attend this Ijtima. Its proper schedule will be mailed from Maktab Overseas, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

6. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the month of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam 1436 AH, the member of Majlis-e-Shura Haji Abu Kumayl Muhammad Fuzayl Raza ‘Attari will travel to Nepal where two 12-day Madani Courses will also be conducted; first course will begin on 12 th October 2015, second course on 14 th October 2015. The Nigran-e-Kabinah/Kabinat of India will also attend them. If responsible Islamic brothers from other countries except India and Nepal also want to attend them, they should contact Maktab Overseas in advance so that arrangement can be made for them.

1. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s booklets have been translated into 35 languages by Majlis-e-Tarajim of Dawat-e-Islami. Further, work of translation into 3 to 4 languages is in progress. Regarding this, Overseas Islamic brothers should help such Islamic brothers of their own country/Kabinah who take interest in the translation of books/booklets to contact Tarajim Maktab through Maktab Overseas.

2. The Islamic brothers who want to come to Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) for the training of Madani Muzakarahs or other courses, their advance schedule be emailed to Maktab Overseas so that their arrangements of accommodation and schedule etc., can be managed in a proper manner.

3. You can email your Madani Mashwarahs and suggestions to Maktab Overseas for performing Madani activities in a much better way in overseas countries by teaching language courses for different languages to preachers.

4. Overseas responsible Islamic brothers and preachers should regularly attend the Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

5. Preachers and responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami should include study in their schedule. They should include those books, in particular, which Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat has mentioned many times and are also included in the syllabus of Madani In’amaat. They should be included in the schedule.

6. When should one study? How should things be memorized after the study? 18 Madani pearls about study regarding this can be obtained from a booklet about the Seerat of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat named ‘ Shauq-e-‘Ilm-e-Deen ’.

7. Responsible Islamic brothers should make only the Bayan their standard which is taken from Al-Madinah-tul-‘Ilmiyyah, its English translation done by Majlis-e-Tarajim that is sent to the Overseas responsible Islamic brothers by Maktab Overseas every week. (Responsible Islamic brothers may contact Majlis-e-Tarajim through Maktab Overseas to get this Bayan translated into other languages.)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For many years, from time to time, Madani Mashwarahs of the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami are held and continue for many days in the Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah, Madina-tul-Murshid, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi); whatever is decided after mutual Mushawarat, is written briefly and then with necessary amendment and modification is sent to the responsible Islamic brothers. After gaining massive advantages from these Madani pearls not only implement them in your countries, divisions, cities, and departments, but also give us your valuable suggestions.

Please, send these Madani pearls within 7 days to the concerned responsible Islamic brothers and receive its confirmation. Further, inform your Nigran as well.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to be the slave of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and remain steadfast with sincerity and safety on Dawat-e-Islami.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Schedule of coming Madani Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura:

Arrival time of the members of Shura at Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi): November 3, 2015 – Maghrib.

Date (Hijri)

Date (Gregorian)

Day

Timing

Participants

19 Muharram

3 November

Thursday

‘Isha

Nigrans and members of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

20

4

Wed

Zuhr to Maghrib

Nigran Kabinat Pakistan and members of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

“ ”

“ ”

“ ”

‘Isha

“ ”

21

5

Thursday

Zuhr to Maghrib

Majlis Overseas

“ ”

“ ”

“ ”

After Ijtima’

Nigran Kabinat Pakistan and members of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura, members of Majlis Overseas

23

7

Saturday

Morning 9 to afternoon 1

Aalami Majlis Mushawarat

Issue Date:

8 Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam, 1436 AH (September 23, 2015)

