اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of Worship in Youth

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰہَ وَکَّلَ بِقَبْرِیْ مَلَکًا ’ undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed an angel to my grave ‘ اَعْطَاہُ اَسْمَاعَ الْخَلَائِقِ ’ who has been granted the ability to hear the voice of every creature. ‘ فلَاَ یُصَلِّیْ عَلَیَّ اَحَدٌ اِلٰی یَوْمِ الْقِیَامَۃِ اِلَّا اَبْلَغَنِیْ بِاِسْمِہٖ

وَاِسْمِ اَبِیْہِ ہٰذَا فُلانُ بْنُ فُلانٍٍ قَدْ صَلّٰی عَلَیْک ’ Hence, whosoever recites Salat upon me until the Day of Judgement, he [angel] presents to me that person’s name along with his father’s name [and] says, ‘So and so has recited Salat upon you this time’.

(Musnad Al-Bazzaar, vol. 4, pp. 254, Hadees 1425)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The topic of today’s Bayan is ‘Virtues of Worship in Youth ’. Generally, heedlessness and carelessness in one’s youth and not appreciating these beautiful moments bring about regret in the old age. Therefore, as long as one has youth and health, it is essential to constantly spend them in worship.

Young worshipper

It is stated on page number 320 of the book ‘Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: A saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that I saw a young man in a jungle, far away from people and the populated areas, busy worshipping in seclusion. I said Salam to him and he replied to my Salam. I then asked him: ‘O young man! Why are you here at such a deserted place, where you have no helper nor a companion?’ He replied: ‘Why not, By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I do have a helper as well as a companion.’ I asked: ‘Where is your helper and companion?’ He replied: ‘He has superiority over me with His dignity; He is with me with His knowledge; He is in front of me with His guidance, and His blessing and dignity are on my right and left.’

When I heard this, I humbly asked: ‘Will you allow me to have your company? ’ He said: ‘Your company will make me heedless of worship and I do not like this, (because) the King of the earth from the East to West is sufficient for me.’ I asked: ‘Do you not feel nervous in this place.’ He replied: ‘One whose friend is Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, how will he be nervous?’ I asked: ‘Where do you eat

from?’ He replied: ‘When I was unborn yet, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ provided me with food even inside the womb of my mother through His Divine blessings and now that I have grown up, will He عَزَّوَجَلَّ not provide me sustenance? He has a fixed amount of sustenance for me and its time is also written.’

I then requested him to make Du’a, so he made Du’a for me in the following manner: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect your eyes from His disobedience, fill your heart with His fear, and not make you among those who become heedless of Worship after being occupied with other than Him!’ Thereafter, when he stood up to leave, I went up to him and humbly asked: ‘O my brother! When will we meet again?’ He said smilingly: ‘I will not meet you in this world after today. However! On the Day of Judgement when all the people will be gathered, if you would want to meet me, then you could find me among those who will have Deedar-e-Ilahi (the blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ I asked: ‘How have you come to know about this?’ He replied: ‘By His dignity! I have learnt it through Him because I have prevented my eyes from looking at Haraam things and my Nafs from satisfying the desires and adopted seclusion in the dark nights for His worship (I am hopeful that He will be pleased with me and) in return for this, He will let me have His sight.’ That young man then disappeared and I never met him again. (Ar-Raud-ur-Faaiq, pp. 166, 167)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the abovementioned parable, the young man deviated away from this world and kept himself occupied with worship and spiritual exercises since his youth, and prevented himself from looking at the things that were considered to be Haraam by Shari’ah and resided lonely in the jungle. This parable contains countless Madani pearls of admonition, in particular for those young people who are intoxicated with their youth, and are deceived by Nafs and Satan and are thus involved in committing sins and displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Such people should understand the importance of their youth and instead of destroying their precious moments in useless things, they should spend them in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as the blessing of youth is given only once in life.

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Health, youth, wealth and life should not be wasted; perform good deeds when you have these things as these blessings are not given again and again. (He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that) after wasting one’s youth in (unproductive) entertainments, when parts of the body become useless in the old age, having a desire for

abundant worship is foolishness. Whatever act you want to perform, do so in your youth because a young righteous person has a great elevated status.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 16)

رِیاضَت کے یہی دن ہیں بُڑھاپے میں کہاں ہِمّت

جو کچھ کرنا ہو اب کرلو ابھی نُوری جَواں تم ہو

(Saaman-e-Bakhshish)

Five questions

Dear Islamic brothers! Youth is undoubtedly one of the greatest blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which is priceless; once it is gone, it can never be regained even after spending billions. If in this world, we would have spent our youth in obeying and worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then we can be safe from the embarrassment and shame on the Day of Judgement, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Otherwise, we may fall into absolute disgrace due to not appreciating this blessing (of youth); because on the Day of Judgement, the question will also be asked regarding our youth.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, a person will not be able to lift his foot until he is questioned about five things: (1) In which activities was the life spent? (2) In which activities was the youth spent? (3) From where was the wealth earned? (4) Where was it spent? (5) To what extent did you act upon your knowledge?

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 188, Hadees 2424)

The fortunate one who appreciates his youth overcomes his carnal desires and spends his days and nights in the acts of worship purely for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he receives a lot of goodness in this world and the Hereafter. In this regard, let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

Status of a young worshipper

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: A young man performing worship in his youth has superiority over an old man worshipping in the old age in the same way as Mursaleen (عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام) have over all the Ambiya.

(Attargheeb fi Fadaail-ul-A’maal, pp. 78, Hadees 228)

Deserving the reward of 72 Siddiqeen

2 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: A young man who gives up the pleasure and luxuries of the world and advances towards the obedience of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his youth, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant him the reward equivalent to seventy-two Siddiqeen.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 43099)

Real bondman of Allah D

3 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves most that beautiful young man amongst His creation who spent his youth and beauty in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Taking pride in him in front of the angels, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘He is My real bondman.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 42096)

Beloved bondman of Allah D

4 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves such young person who has devoted his youth in obeying the Almighty. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 394, Hadees 7496)

محبت میں اپنی گُما یا اِلٰہی نہ پاوؤں میں اپنا پتا یا اِلٰہی

تُو اپنی وِلایت کی خَیرات دیدے مِرے غَوث کا واسِطَہ یا الٰہی

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 105)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that those who appreciate their youth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants them such a favour and grace that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ includes them among His beloved bondmen! Therefore, young Islamic brothers are requested that if they want to live a peaceful and comfortable life in their old age, then appreciate the blessing of youth by trying to make their Nafs attracted to worship instead of running after the mortal world. Though it is very difficult as hopes and desires are at their peak in youth, but along with our other affairs, if we follow the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and act upon the noble and virtuous life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there will be a Madani reformation in our lives as well.

Beloved Rasool’s passion for worship

Sayyiduna ‘Ata رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar, Sayyiduna ‘Ubayd Bin ‘Amr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما and I went to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا . Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما humbly asked: ‘Tell us something about the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that would astonish us.’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا started weeping and said: ‘One night, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to me and said: ‘Allow me to worship my Rab (عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ I humbly said: ‘I prefer your closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ more than my desire.’ Therefore, the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood in a corner of the house and started weeping. Then having performed Wudu [ablution]

properly, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started reciting the Holy Quran. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم again started weeping until the tears, coming out of his blessed eyes, fell onto the ground. In the meanwhile, Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ arrived. Seeing the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم weeping, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! What has made you weep? Whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive the sins of the people of the past and the future for your sake?’ He said: ‘Should I not be a thankful person?’’ (Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 253-254)

روتا ہے جو راتوں کو اُمّت کی مَحبَّت میں وہ شافِعِ محشر ہے سردار مدینے کا

راتوں کو جو روتا ہے اور خاک پہ سوتا ہے غم خوار ہے، سادہ ہے مختار مدینے کا

قبضے میں دو عالَم ہیں پَر ہاتھ کا تکیہ ہے سوتا ہے چٹائی پر سَردار مدینے کا

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 108)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, despite being Ma’soom (innocent), rather, Sayyid-ul- Ma’soomeen and Sayyid-ul-‘Aabideen (the leader of Ma’soom and Islamic worshippers), would still worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with so much of weeping, whereas the glory and dignity of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is so great that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him the owner and granted him the authority. By the bestowment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Greatest and Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede through his authority on behalf of those sinners who would have become disappointed about not being forgiven on the Day of Judgement. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated his own glory: ‘(On the Day of Judgement), first of all, I will come out (from my luminous shrine). When people will come in the form of groups, I will be their leader. When they will become silent (due to the horrors of the Day of Judgement), I will be their Khateeb (sermoniser). When they will be stopped, I will be their intercessor; when they will become hopeless, then I will be the one who will give them the good news. I will have sublimity and grandeur and the keys of all the treasures (of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) in my hands that day and among the offspring of Sayyiduna Aadam (عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام), I will be the noblest one in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . 1000 servants will be around me. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 39, Hadees 48)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! May we be sacrificed! Despite being the master of the ancients and the moderns and despite being the owner and having authority over everything by the bestowment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the state of the passion of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for worshipping was such that due to worship, the marks of swelling on his blessed feet would become apparent and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would weep for the forgiveness of the sinners of his Ummah. It contains Madani pearls of advice, in particular, for the youth who does not get inclined towards worship and waste their entire night in useless things. Therefore, such people are requested to remember the blessed tears of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In order to attain success in this world and the Hereafter, obey the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and act upon Sunnahs of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and perform good deeds abundantly with the greed of attaining rewards in the Hereafter.

Consider youth to be a blessing before the old age

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! To be able to worship in youth is a very great blessing because as soon as a person grows up, he falls victim to the dangerous tricks of Satan, impermissible desires of the Nafs, company of bad friends, the worries of bettering the worldly future and earning wealth through impermissible ways by indulging in this mortal world, all these factors lead him towards committing sins. As such, he is unable to get inclined towards the acts of worship.

Remember! We have been sent to the world for a very short period of time and we have to prepare for the very long matters of the grave and the Day of Judgement during this time. Therefore, wise is the one who considers this short period of time to be a blessing and becomes occupied in the preparations of the grave and the Day of Judgement, and does not waste his precious time in the useless activities; as it is not known whether he will be alive the next moment or death will make him fall into a deep sleep for a long period of time. Therefore, considering one’s youth and life to be a blessing, one should get occupied in performing virtuous deeds.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Value five things before five [other things]: Youth before the old age, health before the illness, affluence before poverty, leisure time before being busy and life before death.’

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 245, Hadees 5174)

If we also occupy ourselves with preparing for the grave and the Hereafter instead of spending our youth heedlessly, then by the blessings of this, not only will it improve our world but the mercies and blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will

also shower in our graves abundantly اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In this regard, let’s listen to a very beautiful parable.

Glad tidings of 2 Jannah

In the era of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, a pious young man used to remain busy worshipping in the Masjid. When he passed away (and after the arrangements for his Ghusl (ritual bath), funeral and burial were made in the same very night), when Sayyiduna ‘Umar

Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was informed about this incident in the morning, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to his (deceased’s) father in order to express his condolences over the death of his righteous son. (Having expressed his condolences), he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Why did you not inform me?’ (so that I could also attend his funeral Salah etc.) He humbly said: ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! Much part of the night had passed.’ (Therefore, keeping your rest in mind, it was thought better not to inform you) . So Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Take me to the grave of that pious young man.’ Thus, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his companions were taken to that young man’s grave. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ called out: ‘O so-and-so! (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said):

وَ لِمَنْ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّهٖ جَنَّتٰنِۚ(۴۶)

And for the one who fears standing in the Majestic Court of his Lord, are two Paradises [1] .

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 27, Surah Ar-Rahman, Ayah 46)

The (practising) young man replied twice from his grave, ‘Ya Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! My Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon me both of these two Paradises.’ (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 45, pp. 450, Raqm 5320)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Did you hear that the young man, while protecting himself from sins, spent his whole life performing virtuous deeds? And after his death, this worship brought about his forgiveness and he was also blessed with the great blessings of Paradise too. Remember! Beauty and youth are mortal wealth and being proud of it is an act of foolishness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Instead of boasting over your health and youth and wasting your days and nights in committing sins, develop the passion for worship and yearning for the recitation of the Holy Quran with sincerity and steadfastness. If you get old in this state and the passion for worship also remains intact, then despite having poor health and no power to perform the virtuous acts, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will continue to get the reward equal to the reward for worshipping in the youth. Therefore,

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: When a person reaches that part of his age (while performing good deeds in the state of Islam) that he does not remember anything (when needed) despite having its knowledge (from beforehand), then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to record those good deeds in his Book of deeds as well which he used to perform when he was healthy.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 293, Hadees 3666)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The elderly person who had been performing worship (abundantly) in his youth but is unable to perform worship abundantly owing to the old age, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ declares him to be ma’zoor (excusable) and records in his Book of deeds the very same acts of worship he used to do in his youth. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 89)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Sada-e-Madinah”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to increase the passion for worshipping in youth and remain cautious from the tricks of Satan and nafs, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and actively take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is also calling out ‘Sada-e-Madinah’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, waking up Muslims for the Fajr Salah is called “Sada-e-Madinah”. Remember! The booklet of this Madani activity, namely “Sada-e-Madinah”, has also been published.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه ٭ due to the blessing of “Sada-e-Madinah”, one can attain the privilege of offering the Tahajjud Salah.

٭ Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, Salah gets protected.

٭ Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, Fajr Salah can be offered in the first row of the Masjid with Takbeer-e-Aula.

٭ Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, the reward for “conveying the call towards righteousness” can also be attained.

٭ Due to the blessing of ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, good name and publicity of Dawat-e-Islami will be spread around.

٭ The one who calls out ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ gives Du’as to Muslims of performing Hajj and beholding the blessed Madinah again and again. If Allah Almighty wills, these Du’as will also be accepted in his favour too.

٭ Due to the blessing of walking during calling out ‘Sada-e-Madinah’, one’s health will also improve.

٭ Calling out ‘Sada-e-Madinah’ is waking Muslims up for the Fajr Salah. And waking Muslims up for the Fajr Salah is the blessed Sunnah of the Holy Rasool. Waking up Muslims for Fajr Salah is the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم . Waking up Muslims for the Fajr Salah is the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ali and Umar Farooq-e-A’zam. Therefore, Ameer-ul Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam would go to the Masjid for Fajr Salah while waking people up. (Tabqat-e-Kubra, vol. 3, pp. 263) For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable regarding calling out Sada e Madinah and rejoice. Therefore,

Due to the blessings of Sada-e-Madinah, land for Faizan-e-Madinah was acquired

One Islamic brother travelled in a Madani Qafilah of the Madani movement, Dawat-e-Islami, with the devotees of Rasool in a city. After the Fajr Azan, he was calling out Sada e Madinah as he was going along. All of a sudden, a modern young person came out of a house, joined him and offered Fajr Salah

in the Masjid with congregation. Afterwards, the father of the young person came to meet the devotees of Rasool of the Madani Qafilah. He was an affluent person. He came and told that due to the blessings of Sada-e-Madinah, his irreligious, disobedient and non-Salah offering son has started to offer five times daily Salah his father being impressed, donated land in that city for the Madani Markaz, Faizan e Madinah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Young even in old age by the blessing of worship

Regarding worshipping in youth, Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Zaynuddin ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Rajab Hanbali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated a very beautiful thing: One who remembered Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when he was young and healthy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will take care of him when he gets old and weak, and will also grant him

good hearing, vision, strength, and intellect. Sayyiduna Abut Teeb Tabari [ ابُو الطیب طبری ] رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was over 100 years old, yet he was mentally and physically fit and healthy. Someone asked him the secret of his health. So he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه replied, ‘I protected my physical abilities from sins in my youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has retained them for me today when I have become old.’ On the contrary, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی saw an old person who was begging. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه said, ‘this person wasted the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wasted his strength in the old age.

(Majmu’ah Rasaail Ibn Rajab, vol. 3, pp. 100)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ spent their youth in performing worship and spiritual exercises and protected themselves from sins, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also kept the signs of their youth in their old age too. But alas! Our youths, instead of being occupied with worship and recitation of the Holy Quran, are heedlessly and carelessly destroying their precious time by misusing mobile phones, internet, social media and TV. Mobile phone is a part of modern technology, a need of the time and an important means of communication. Where it is useful for us, at the same time, its misuse is also becoming the cause of many types of harmful effects as well. The male and female students of our schools and colleges who we call the builders of the future have become victims of this terrible epidemic too. Some are crazy for games and some are harmfully addicted to films and songs; some have memory cards full of indecent videos and some exploit night packages by spending the whole night in obscene talks. Likewise, the internet is an important and useful invention of the modern era with countless worldly and religious benefits. But due to this, many evils are becoming widespread among the youth.

The internet is like a knife which can be used for good and bad. But regretfully! Evil usage of the Internet is more prevalent in our society. The obscene articles and stories, dirty pictures and obscene films and dramas that arouse one’s carnal desires have devastated the manners, character, habits and behaviour of the young generation. Evils like wasting money and precious time the whole night, telling lies and cheating people and blackmailing are becoming rapidly widespread among the youth of our society. In the beginning, the usage of the internet was confined to the computer only. But since this facility has become available on mobile phones

as well, small children are also wasting their future falling prey to this social evil. The youths who are suffering from this epidemic get deprived of education and are seen being disgraced after losing manners and etiquettes instead of getting any status in society.

For Allah Almighty’s sake! Wake up from heedlessness and develop a mindset of reforming your children as well as reforming yourself. If we have to introduce our children to this modern technology, then teach them its right usage as well and also keep monitoring them. While taking advantage of the internet and in order to use your and your children’s precious time at the right place, visit the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, other than the Holy Quran, translation Kanz ul Iman and commentaries of the Holy Quran, this website not only offers the facility of online study of books and booklets related to the topics of Hadees and rules of Hadees, Fiqh and rules of Fiqh, Seerat and Tasawwuf etc., in Urdu, English, Arabic, Hindi, Gujarati and other different languages of the world, but it also has the facility of downloading them free or take a print out.

In addition to this, it also contains Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attari Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ Madani Muzakarahs consisting of interesting answers to different questions, Sunnah-inspiring Bayanaat [speeches] of Nigran-e-Shura and Muballighin [preachers] of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Hamd, Na’at, Manqabats and short reformative clips which you can download and share to other Islamic brothers through Facebook or WhatsApp while using them correctly.

For seeking guidance on Shar’i rulings, online Dar-ul-Ifta and for relieving grief-stricken people from different problems and spiritual treatments, online Ta’wizaat-e-‘Attariyyah is also available where Kaat (counteract) and Istikharah can also be done. In addition to this, an introduction of some departments of Dawat-e-Islami is included there. A complete method of supporting financially via the internet for the running expenses of millions spent in approximately 104 departments and many other Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami has also been mentioned in it. Through this, you can take part in the virtuous activities through paying Sadaqat-e-Wajibah (e.g. Zakah, Fitranah, ‘Ushr, Fidyah of Siyam [fasts], vows etc.) and Naafilah (Sadaqat and charities etc.) . Furthermore, there is also a library named ‘Al-Madinah Library’ in the form of Software which can be installed on the computer. With the help of the search option in it, one can benefit from more than 200 books and booklets. Moreover, through the ‘Awqat-us-Salah’ Software, timings of

Sahari, Iftar and Salah of different countries and cities can also be found. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to use these modern technologies in the right way and protect us from sins due to their misuse!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Try to get inclined towards the righteous deeds and do not commit any sin by considering it to be minor; because one sin is a combination of many evil deeds, that is to say, it brings ten other evils with it.

Ten harmful effects of sin

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Even if the sin is just one, it brings forth ten evils with it:

٭ When a person commits sin, he attracts the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the power to inflict wrath on that person.

٭ He (i.e. one who commits sin) makes the accursed Satan happy.

٭ He distances himself from Paradise.

٭ He gets closer to Hell.

٭ He harms the most precious thing of his, i.e. his own life.

٭ He makes his heart impure, whereas it is (originally) pure.

٭ He distresses Kiraman Katibeen [i.e. the angels writing his deeds].

٭ Such an individual makes the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم displeased in his blessed shrine.

٭ He makes the earth and the heavens and all the creation a witness to his disobedience.

٭ He breaches the trust of all humans and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 30-31)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that although it is only one sin, but it brings about 10 evils. Therefore, if we commit any sin, we should straightaway repent sincerely in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Alas! Millions of

regrets! Some young people are intoxicated due to their youth and fall prey to the deception of this mortal world with having long hopes while observing heedlessness, ignore the commandments of Shari’ah and comfort themselves by continuously putting off the matter of repentance by saying that: ‘These are the days of enjoyment’, ‘look at so-and-so. He has grown so old but is still alive. On the other hand, I am still healthy and young.’ They live with such false and hollow hopes. As the youth starts falling, old age overcomes quickly. Then such people realize that now I should firmly intend to make repentance to protect myself from sins and worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly. Then although somehow, they do succeed in performing good deeds but feel extreme regret when they recall the beautiful moments of their youth and weep by thinking that: Would that! I had spent my youth in worship. But alas! My youth is now a past and will never return.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to become pious, Salah-offering individual and attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty, remain associated with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and support it in order to spread the invitation towards righteousness all around. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is engaged in serving the Deen in more or less 104 departments across the globe. Out of these very departments, one department is “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat”. Under the supervision of this department, the first ever Dar-ul-Ifta was established on 15 th Sh a ’ban-ul-Mu’azzam 1421 Hijri in Masjid Kanz-ul-Iman, Babri Chowk, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi).

As of present, “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat” have now been established in the different areas of Karachi and different cities of Pakistan as well. In these Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat, blessed Muftis are striving to provide Shar’i guidance to the Muslim Ummah. Other than this, the blessed Muftis of “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat” provide solutions to the questions posed by the Muslims from all over the world through telephone, WhatsApp and internet. Questions can be asked from all around the world through the internet on the following e-mail

address: darulifta@dawateislami.net . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, out of the programs aired on Madani channel, one very famous and informative program called “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat” is also aired.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in order to spread the rays of the Islamic knowledge further, a mobile application called “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat” has also been launched

with the collaboration of the I.T department of Dawat-e-Islami. Further progressive steps are under the way. May Allah Almighty bless “Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat” with further progress!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, wise is the one who appreciates this life, repents of his sins and spends the rest of his life in constantly worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The youth, in particular, should not delay in repenting because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much the repentance of a young man. As the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰهَ تَعَالٰي يُحِبُّ الشَّابَّ التَّائِبَ ’ i.e. One who repents in his youth is the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ut-Taubah, Al-Juz 4, vol. 3, pp. 87, Hadees 10181)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: (مَا مِنْ شَيءٍ اَحَبُّ اِلَي اللّٰهِ مِنَ الشَّابِّ التَّائِبِ) i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like anything more than a youth who repents.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Mawa’iz, Al-Juz 15, vol. 8, pp. 332, Hadees 43101)

Reformation of youth and the role of Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic brothers! In this mischievous era, a 63-day Madani Tarbiyyati Course is also offered by the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, for the reformation and moral education of the youths who are far away from Sunnah, intoxicated by greed and lust of this world, and committing sins abundantly falling prey to the trap of Nafs and Satan. Regarding the importance of this course, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه states in Faizan-e-Sunnat, volume 1, page 510: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The 63-day Tarbiyyati course provides an opportunity to adopt the company of the devotees of the beloved Rasool. It is so beneficial for one’s Hereafter that every Muslim who desires to serve Islam would perhaps yearn to enrol in this 63-day (Madani) training course once he is enlightened about its details and curriculum. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Besides Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi [Pakistan], this course is also offered in several other cities around Pakistan. The curriculum entails many branches of knowledge, some of which are Fard [obligatory] for every sane adult Muslim. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ (along with moral reformation), Wudu [ablution], Ghusl [ritual bath] and the practical method of Salah are taught in this [Madani] course. The curriculum also includes learning the method of

giving Ghusl to a deceased, shrouding and burying a dead body, the funeral Salah and Eid Salah.

Furthermore, recitation of the Quranic words with proper articulation and correct pronunciation is also taught with the help of the Madani Qai’dah. Students memorise the last 20 Surahs of the Holy Quran and practice the recitation of Surah Al-Mulk. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the blessings of this, many young people have associated themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and a Madani transformation has taken place in their purposeless lives. Furthermore, they have intended to devote the beautiful days of their youth in the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to promote this Madani aim: ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to the booklet ‘How to Spend our Youth?’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the passion for worship and persuading to act upon the Sunnah among the youth, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnah, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَتْ بَـرَكَاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَه delivered a speech in Urdu titled ‘ Jawani ki ‘Ibadat kay Fazaail ’, i.e. Excellences of Worship in Youth during the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ held on 18 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal

1412 AH, corresponding to 26th September 1991, at the very first Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami – ‘Jami’ Masjid Gulzar-e-Habib’ (situated at Gulistan-e-Okarvi, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with help of the same very speech, a booklet namely ‘ How to Spend our Youth? ’ along with the addition of a lot of new matter was compiled by the department Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah.

You too should purchase this booklet from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it from the beginning to end. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this booklet will be a great help in understanding the purpose of youth and making you inclined towards worship. This booklet can also be read online on the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net). It can also be downloaded or printed out.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of eating

٭ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to remain hungry for many nights in succession. His blessed household often did not have anything to eat

at night and whenever they would get something to eat, it was mostly bread made from barley. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 160, Hadees 2367)

٭ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: My Creator presented me with the option of turning the mountains around Makkah Mukarramah into gold for me but I said, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I wish that I eat one day and remain hungry the next so that when I am hungry, I plead and remember You, and when I eat, I thank and glorify You’. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 55, Hadees 2354)

Announcement

Remaining Sunan and manners of ‘ eating ’ will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn these Sunnahs and manners.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

CCC

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 18 October 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunan and manners of eating

٭ Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Whoever eats only when he is hungry and withdraws (his hand) from the food while still hungry, will never be in need of a doctor. Therefore, food should only be consumed when one is absolutely hungry. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 5)

٭ Dear Islamic brothers! Although it is permissible to eat until one is full, countless religious and worldly benefits lie in applying a Madani guard on the stomach.

٭ Abstaining from food in compulsion when it is not available is not something remarkable, but refraining from eating and staying hungry for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when food is available in abundance, is indeed an extraordinary feat.

٭ It is a Sunnah to eat once a day. Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that when the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would eat in the morning, he would not eat in the evening and when he ate in the evening, he would not eat in the morning. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 39, Hadees 18173)

٭ If there is no obstacle in carrying out religious and important worldly activities, and parents are not displeased as well, then one should keep as many Nafl Siyam [fasts] as possible.

٭ Amir-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has stated, ‘Refrain from filling your stomach while eating and drinking as it harms the body, causes disease and brings about laziness in worship. To adopt moderation in eating and drinking is necessary for you, as this improves physical fitness and saves oneself from needless expenses.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 183, Hadees 41706)

٭ It is narrated that the advice of the one whose stomach is full has no effect (on others) and when he is given advice, his mind refuses to accept it. (Nuzha-tul-Majalis, vol. 1, pp. 178)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a before and after eating

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’as ‘ before and after eating ’ will be taught as per the schedule. Du’as are as follows:

Du’a before eating:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ بِا للّٰہِ الَّذِیْ لَا یَضُرُّ مَعَ اسْمِہٖ

شَیْءٌ فِی الْاَرْضِ وَ لَا فِی السَّمَاۤءِ یَا حَیُّ یَا قَیُّوْمُ

Translation: I begin with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessing of Whose name, nothing in the skies and the earth can cause harm, O the Ever-Living, O the Ever-Lasting. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 109, Hadees 40792)

Du’a after eating:

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ الَّذِیْۤ اَطْعَمَنَا وَ سَقَانَا وَ جَعَلَنَا مُسْلِمِیْنَ

Translation: Gratitude to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Who fed us and made us Muslims.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 513, Hadees 3850)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

