بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْمِ

Madani Pearls

from Shura

Markazī Majlis-e-Shūrā

From: 16 to 18 January, 2015

Translated into English by

Majlis-e-Tarajim (Dawat-e-Islami)

Table of

Contents

Excellence in Salāt -Alan- Nabī صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

Madanī Mashwarah . 3

Do not devolve responsibility to incompetent person: 3

Guarantee of Paradise . 4

Basic piety . 5

Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do good . 5

Planning of Waqf Amlāk (possessions, goods) and vice Mutawalli 5

Gain knowledge of necessary rulings . 5

Necessary rulings about donation .. 6

Keep in touch . 7

Check your schedule . 7

Madani Pearls for those who come to Global Madani Markaz, Faizan -e-Madinah, Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi) . 8

Shakhsiat Ijtima: 10

Tarbiyyati Ijtima ’ of Zimmahdaran .. 10

Colourful Madani pearls . 11

Madani pearls given to us by Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat 11

Organizational and other Madani pearls of Madani Muzakarahs . 12

Celebrate the month of devotion to Rasul صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم from 26 th Rabi- ul - Awwal to 25 th Rabi’- ul - Akhir . 12

Off Air Madani Muzakarah . 13

اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Madani Pearls

from Shura

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه in his booklet ‘ The Lying Thief ’ has written: ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to meet his brother ‘Usman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who was looking very happy and said, ‘Last night I saw the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave me a bucket containing water. I drank plenty of water and can still feel the coolness of that water.’ ‘Abdullah Bin Salam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked, ‘How did you get this status?’ His brother answered, ‘By virtue of reciting Salāt-Alan-Nabī abundantly upon the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sa’adat-ud-Darayn, pp. 149)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Markazī Majlis-e-Shūrā

Faizān-e-Madīnah Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi)

24 to 26 Rabi’-ul-Awwal, 1436 AH (16 to 18 January, 2015)

Think deeply before you give someone responsibility, whether he is competent or not. To devolve responsibility deliberately to an incompetent person comes under the category of perfidiousness. Such people should have fear. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘On the Day of Judgement a flag will be planted for every perfidious person by which he will be recognized.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 9, pp. 306, Hadis 28913)

In another Hadis, the most Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who has no Amanat (entrustment) has no faith; one who has no cleanliness has no Salah, and one who has no Salah has no religion because Salah has the same status in religion as the head has in the body.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 626, Hadis 2292)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: To die in the path of Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes all the sins except [the sin of] Amanat. (He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said) a man will be brought on the Day of Judgement

who was killed in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and he will be asked, ‘Return your (Amanat) deposit.’ He will humbly say, ‘O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How can I return? The world no longer exists.’ Then angels will be asked to take him to Hāwiyah . They will take him towards Hāwiyah and his deposit will be brought in the form in which it existed that day when it was given to him. He will recognize it forthwith and will go after it (until he) gets it and lifts it on his shoulder. When he is sure that he has come out, it will fall down from his shoulder and he will go keep going after it for ever . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said, ‘Salah is an Amanat (entrustment); Wudu is too; weight and measure are also entrustment. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ counted other things as well; the most important among them is Wadi’at [ Amanat ] (entrustment).

Sayyiduna Zāzān رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he went to Sayyiduna Bara’ Bin ‘ Āzib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and humbly said to him, ‘Do you not know that (Sayyiduna) ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) has said such and such.’ So he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said that (Sayyiduna) ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) has said rightly; have you not heard that Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

اِنَّ اللہَ یَاۡ مُـرُکُمۡ اَنۡ تُؤَ دُّ وا الۡاَ مٰنٰتِ اِلٰۤی اَہۡلِہَا ۙ

Indeed Allah commands you to hand over whatever you hold in trust, to their owners.

[ Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 5, Surah An- Nisa, verse 58)

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 323, Hadis 5266)

Regarding the foregoing verse Hakim- ul - Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has said, ‘O the whole Muslims! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commands you to hand over every type of entrustments such as financial, pertaining to life, spiritual, faith-related, confidential, and honesty to their deserving people or owners or those who are worthy of them.’

(Tafsir Na’eemi, vol. 5, pp.1 59 – Maktabah Islamiyyah)

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: You guarantee me for six things I will guarantee you for Heaven:

1. When you speak, speak the truth.

2. When you make a promise, fulfill the promise.

3. When you are made Ameen, return/pay the Amanat (deposit).

4. Protect your private parts.

5. Keep your eyes lowered.

6. Control your hands. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 412, Hadis 22821)

Responsibility should be given according to eligibility.

If Nigrān -e-‘ Alaqah and Shaher Mushawarat are according to the criterion (i.e. Madani Qafilah and Madani In’amat etc.) set by Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, then by the Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ no one can stop the progress of Dawat -e- Islami over there.

Prior to changing any Zimmahdar, he should be taken into confidence as per need so that satan cannot create any kind of chaos.

Basic piety implies that one should avoid Harām and impermissible act. If someone cannot even do this, then how can he be pious? We should protect ourselves from every kind of sin.

‘ Allamah Muhaddis Ibn Jauzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Though sin is only one, it has ten bad qualities:

1. When a person commits a sin, he angers Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has power to do it.

2. One (who commits sins), pleases Iblees Mal’oon .

3. Gets away from Paradise.

4. Gets closer to Hell

5. Causes pain to his most loving thing i.e. his life.

6. He makes his Bātin impure though it is pure.

7. Hurts angels who write down deeds i.e. Kiraman Katibeen .

8. He grieves the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his blessed mausoleum (Rauzah).

9. Makes earth and sky and the whole creature witness of his disobedience.

10. He acts perfidiously with all human beings and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bahr- ud - Dumu ’, pp. 30)

The Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: مَن ْ يُّرِدِ اللّٰهُ بِهِ خَيۡرًا يُّفَقِّهۡهُ فِي الدِّيۡن i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows the understanding of religion upon the one who Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do good . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadis 71) That person’s faith will remain safe who is made to do good.

Sayyidatuna ‘ Aishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends someone to do good . He عَزَّوَجَلَّ appoints an angel one year before his death who takes him to the right path till he dies while performing a good act and people say: So-and-so person died while performing a good act. When such a fortunate and righteous person is about to die, his soul tries to leave his body quickly. That time he likes to meet Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes his meeting too.

(Musnad Ibn -e- Rahawayh, vol. 3, pp. 503)

It is Fard for everyone to know the Shar’i rulings about what he is doing.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 647, 648)

Kābinah to Shura in particular and all the Zimmahdaran of Dawat-e-Islami in general should learn the necessary rulings of Waqf, employment and donation because (almost) all the Zimmahdaran have to come into contact with them.

It is also compulsory for the one collecting donation to learn its necessary rulings.

(Questions and answers about donation, pp. 24)

Saying of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه: I request every Zimmahdar Islamic brother to guide the Islamic brother who is permitted to collect donation or sacrificial animal skins about Shar’i rulings. (ibid, pp. 24)

Sometimes the amount of several people which they pay for Zakah, Fitrah is spent in Ghayr-e-Masraf without making any Heelah such as on the construction of Masjid and Madrasah and the salaries of Imam, Mu`azzin and teachers, so if the real owners or their legal advisers are not found by any means or they have passed away and it is not possible to have access to the heirs, so in this case if he remembers the amount, he should distribute this amount of money among Fuqara (the poor) as charity and should repent & ask for mercy from

Allah Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly. In this way it is hoped that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ may have mercy on him and he may be forgiven. Furthermore, if he does not remember the exact amount of money spent in Ghayr-e-Masraf and there is no way of getting correct information from any source then in such a case he should form an idea by guessing as to how much money he spent. Then the amount of money he thinks is correct should be distributed among the poor after adding some more money as a precaution to that money. (ibid, pp. 38)

If someone has mixed the money of Madrasah with his own money in such a way that the notes which look same are mixed together with the aim to spend it on Madrasah whenever it is needed, he will be a sinner. Because the money collected in donation if mixed with personal money in a way that makes it impossible to recognise the notes, is not permissible. Answering to a question A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A donation-collecting person has mixed the coins with his money in such a way that it becomes impossible to separate or distinguish them. Now the money that the donor has given will be lost and the donation-collection person will have to compensate. Because to mix someone else money in your own money is to ruin him and the one who ruins someone is like an usurper and usurpation leads to compensation. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 23, pp. 554)

To use the deposit of anyone, whether it is related to Masjid or not even considering it a loan is Harām and falls in the category of breach of trust. It is Fard to repent & ask for mercy but compensation is mandatory. If the same amount of money is returned, there will be no compensation, but the sin will not be forgiven unless he repents of it. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 489)

It is compulsory to return the donation which is left after the work has been completed to their donors with receipts or it can be spent on that work for which they now permit you to do so. It is Harām to spend money without their permission. However, if it is difficult to find them, then the money should be spent in similar type of work for which donation was collected. For instance, the donation was given for the construction of a Masjid, the Masjid has been constructed, so the remaining amount should also be spent on the construction of any other Masjid. It should not be spent on any work such as construction of

Madrasah and any other similar type of work. If similar type of work is not found, then the remaining amount should be distributed among the poor (Fuqara). (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 206)

Please study Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه book named ‘ Questions and Answers about Donation ’ for further information.

Appoint a vice Mutawalli at every Waqf Amlāk with the consultation of concerned Rukn-e-Shura/ Nigrān-e-Kābināt and with the permission of Majlis Waqf Amlāk.

Muslims have no authority to make changes in Waqf. We can use out of those things that we own. Waqf is the possession of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ without His permission no one can use it. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 232)

Mutawalli is not allowed to give anyone loan from the money of Waqf or use it as a loan. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 574)

It is Wājib to renovate Masjid. In the process of renovating a Masjid leaking roofs can be repaired. For this purpose if the current donated amount of money is not sufficient, then donation can be collected. Furthermore, if a new extension is necessary for the Masjid by laying the modern foundation for the Masjid after including the area of north and west with the concerned Masjid and destroying the original foundation, then it should be done, otherwise unnecessary extension of the Masjid should not be done and the burden of donation should not be increased on Muslims. It is stated in Fatah Al-Qadeer: No doubt, we have been commanded not to make any changes in Waqf. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 496)

The sense of protecting the possessions (Amlāk) of Waqf makes a person old.

Explaining the importance of Waqf possessions/goods A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The one who is dishonest in the matters of Waqf will be dismissed. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 162)

Mutawalli should be the one who is honest and well-aware of Waqf duties, whether he performs them himself or asks his subordinate to perform them. After becoming Mutawalli, he should be wise and mature. One who has been trusted if become transgressor should be dismissed. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 6, pp. 584)

A question was asked from A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: Can a person who at least take precaution for the sake of religious services be an official/manager/or competent? So A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sunnī, knowledgeable, pious, honest, smart, hard-working. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 16, pp. 599, 600)

1. The burden and sense of asking questions removes worldly pleasures.

2. Zimardaran should make it compulsory for themselves to reply on time to phone, email and WhatsApp.

3. The most important organizational responsibility of a Zimmahdar is to be in contact.

4. They should reply forthwith for urgent problems and for general problems within maximum 12 hours.

5. Arakeen-e-Shura should check themselves the schedule (in advance & progress) of Pakistan level Zimmahdaran of Shu’ba-Jāt and Nigrān-e-Kābināt. Similarly, Nigrān-e-Kābināt should check the schedule of Kābināt level Zimmahdaran and all the Nigrān-e-Kābinah and Pakistan level Zimmahdaran of Majalis should check the schedule of Pakistan level Majlis every month.

Fortunate Islamic brothers of the country and overseas who come to Faizan -e-Madinah for Madani Muzakarahs or Tarbiyyati Ijtima’at on the 12 th of Rabi- ul - Awwal, 11 th Rabi- ul - Akhir, in Ramadan I’tikaf (whole month/last 10 days) or on any other occasion for three days or for more than three days if try to act upon the following Madani pearls with good intentions, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will get lots of blessings:

6. The purpose of this travel is not to demonstrate people’s power and to gather a large number of people is not the proof of success. The real success is when we get the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Would that Madani Qafilahs could travel and every Islamic brother by virtue of your individual effort and deep affection could travel regularly with Madani Qafilahs and observe Fikr -e-Madinah with sincerity! If we are in contact with them for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on their return, a Madani revolution can be brought in their life.

7. Every Islamic brother should be in Sunnah -inspiring white dress and wear ‘ Imamah . In this way, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ everywhere you will see greenery.

8. Every Islamic brother should have necessary things like medicines, sufficient amount of money and Madani In’amat luggage. He must avoid begging.

9. The way the list of Islamic scholars and Mashaikh, Aimmah -e- Masajid, VIPs and other Islamic brothers is prepared so that they can be invited to Global Madani Markaz, similarly, acting upon the Madani In’am 55 make contact with the Islamic brothers of your Halqah or area who by any reason have got away from the Madani environment and their list should also be made by Majlis Izdiyad -e- Hubb . This Majlis should be strengthened and they should be taken with the consult of your Nigrān . By this effort, Madani work in your area will flourish by leaps and bounds اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

10. Gather at the fixed time at Faizan -e-Madinah/Masjid of weekly Ijtima ’ or the central Masjid of your area in order to set out from your city.

11. Prior to departure all the Islamic brothers should perform Wudu and if it is not the Makruh time, then they should offer Nawafil with the intention of Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya - tul -Masjid.

12. Nigrān -e- Kābinah or Nigrān of Division Mushawarat should appoint a capable Islamic brother (having great knowledge and practicing, good-mannered and soft spoken) leader of the bus or bogie of train.

13. Nigrān Islamic brothers as far as possible should appoint a Zimmahdar on 12 Islamic brothers.

14. They should make a new Islamic brother and an old Islamic brother companion. After making them companion their mind should be made that they will remain together all the time.

15. Zimmahdar Islamic brother should take care of his companions in every matter. For instance, he should cooperate with them in matters like Salah, Wudu, eating meals, sleeping, etc. He should serve his companions in such a way that all of them could make up their mind to travel regularly with Madani Qafilahs and start filling in boxes given in the booklet of Madani In’amat by observing Fikr -e-Madinah daily and submit them as well. Then a Zimmahdar Islamic brother should make them have good intentions by telling them the blessings of this travel and stressing its importance and he should also make up their Madani mind-set to act upon Madani In’amat .

16. Usually Islamic brothers become peevish during a travel, therefore Ameer -e- Qafilah should make up the travellers’ mind that even in the state of being angry they should remain tolerant and forgive each other during the travel because due to being angry sometimes one may hurt the feelings of others.

Furthermore, without Shar’i permission to hurt the feelings of a Muslim is a grave sin, Harām and an act leading to Hell.

17. Ameer -e- Qafilah should also advise the attendees to meet the new Islamic brothers with smiling face and make individual efforts upon them during the travel. Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: To say Salam first is the first step of individual effort and to meet warmly and speak smilingly is its soul.

18. Present new Islamic brothers a booklet of 72-Madani In’amat as a gift if possible. They should also be mentioned the method of observing Fikr -e-Madinah and its significance.

19. If teaching and learning Sunnah, making Islamic brothers memorize Du’as, doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, reciting Na’at or making individual efforts continue during the journey, then the journey will be pleasant / amazing and enjoyable by the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

20. Remember! Our individual effort or recitation of Na’at, etc. should not create any trouble to the passengers.

21. If there is a delay in the departure of a vehicle, then the Zimmahdar Islamic brother should give Dars from Faizan -e- Sunnat or from any booklet of Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

22. Offer all the Salah with thorough preparations during the travel (If Zimmahdar Islamic brothers are Shar’i travellers, then those who are capable of making people understand can deliver Dars from the booklet of Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat named ‘Traveller’s Salah’.

23. If booklets are distributed during travel, it is excellent.

24. If a program of listening or watching Madani Muzakarahs /speeches of Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه or speeches of Nigrān -e- Shura is made, it is excellent.

25. Ameer -e- Qafilah should get registered the number of those who are coming and duration of their stay along with the information obtained from either Madani Tarbiyyat Gah or reception when they arrive at Global Madani Markaz Faizan -e-Madinah Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi).

26. After the Qafilah reach Global Madani Markaz Faizan -e-Madinah Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi), Ameer -e- Qafilah should make up the mind of the travellers that we have to offer all the Salah with Jama’at staying all the time in Global Madani Markaz ; we have to listen to the speeches of all the preachers; we have to attend all the Tarbiyyati Halqahs (learning sessions); we have to attend Madani Muzakarahs from beginning to end with a pen and a diary, noting down important Madani pearls.

27. Ameer -e- Qafilah should make up the attendees’ mind to avoid excessive use of mobile phones.

28. Ameer -e- Qafilah should also make up attendees’ mind that if any relatives contact them, then instead of going to them call them at Global Madani Markaz and invite them to listen to either a speech or Madani Muzakarah . (If there is a special Tarbiyyati Ijtima ’ or Madani Mashwarah of Tanzeemi Zimmahdaran, then they should not be persuaded to attend it.)

29. Continue to mention Sunnahs and manners from Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat’s booklet named ‘ Islamic Manner of Eating ’ during eating meals.

30. Upon their return, the Islamic brothers are very enthusiastic. This is a very good opportunity for Zimmahdaran to make lots of individual efforts upon them, therefore, attendees should be persuaded that we as per our objective have to make up every Islamic brother’s mind that we have to act upon Madani In’amat for our own reform and for the reform of the entire world we have to travel with Madani Qafilahs .

31. Every Islamic brother should make this intention that I will persuade at least one Islamic brother to travel with Qafilah by making individual effort upon him every month; I will also present a booklet of Madani In’amat to at least one Islamic brother and will also submit it every month, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

32. If upon their return, Islamic brothers are not engaged in Madani activities, then perhaps all the efforts will be in vain, therefore make up every Islamic brother’s mind that acting upon Madani In’am # 12, we have to either listen to or give at least two Dars ; we have to either teach or learn the whole Quran with the intention of doing Nazirah daily in 12 months at Madrasa- tul - Balighān ; we have to attend weekly Ijtima ’ and weekly Madani Muzakarah ; we have to develop the Madani environment at our homes by the given 19 Madani pearls of Ameer -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

33. Usually the enthusiasm is very high at the time of starting the travel but some time there is a trouble as well, for instance no rest, excess of fatigue, illness or bad manner of any unwise etc. Therefore, upon their return Zimmahdaran are supposed to work with more enthusiasm. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, they become lazy, then there is a fear that the whole efforts may be in vain. Therefore, treat every Islamic brother well; make apologies; meet them one by one; implore them to forgive you if you have made any mistakes or haven’t served them as you should have. If possible, tearfully or by making your face as if you are weeping ask them to forgive you. Request them to travel with Madani Qafilahs and act upon Madani In’amat and to submit the booklet of Madani In’amat every month. Perhaps the thing which was not done by your hard work during the travel اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ can be done during the return journey by two drops of your tears and a moment’s sincerity and humbleness. For this purpose, gather in the main/ Masjid of the city/area, offer Salah of the return journey and then return to your homes.

34. All the Islamic brothers should try to travel from departure to their return as per schedule.

35. Nigrān and Zimmahdaran from the areas should also come along with those Islamic brothers who come to Global Madani Markaz so that their Madani Tarbiyyat can be done properly. Concerned Rukn -e- Shura will be responsible and answerable for anything concerning them.

36. In the month of February 2015, Rukn -e- Shura Haji Abdul Habib Attari will deliver his speech in Shakhsiyāt Ijtima’at in different cities of Pakistan. The Madani Mashwarah of the Islamic brothers, who are highly capable of collecting Madani donations, will also be held.

37. Madani Donations Campaign should be started by the end of Jumadal Ukhra .

38. The 3-day Tarbiyyati Ijtima’ of Nigrān and Arakeen-e-Kābinah to Shura and all Zimmahdaran of Dawat-e-Islami will be held in Global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab - ul -Madinah Karachi. Afterwards, the Madani Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis -e- Shura will be held, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Tarbiyyati Ijtima: From Kābinah to Shura all Zimmahdaran (the Muftis and vice Muftis of Dar- ul - Ifta Ahl -e- Sunnat will guide/train us)

From 27 to 29 Jumadal Ukhra, 1436 AH

17 to 19 April 2015 (Friday to Sunday)

Madani Mashwarah: Markazi Majlis -e- Shura

30 th Jumadal Ukhra to 2 nd Rajab, 1436 AH

20 th to 22 nd April 2015

A published book of Maktaba tul Madina namely, “Discussion About Allah-loving People” volume 2 is also a precious gift for preachers. Every preacher (male and female) must buy and study it.

39. Fortunate is the one who has been made the means of fulfilling the necessities of people.

40. It is necessary to say the right thing in a correct manner, otherwise it loses its charm.

41. If you are given booklets, books, VCDs, CDs in order to distribute, distribute all of them. No one is allowed to keep these things with them.

42. The buses that are booked for weekly Ijtima’at, Madani Muzakarahs and other Ijtima’at, get time fixed with them for return as well.

43. The speeches delivered in the Ijtima’at of India on Thursday after Salat-ul -‘ Isha should also be broadcast in those countries where there is a little difference between the times of these countries and Pakistan Standard Time. The responsibility of this work has been given to Rukn -e- Shura Haji Muhammad Bilal Raza Attari .

44. Every Nigrān -e- Kābinah should make at least 12 preachers in his Kābinah in 12 months. He should prepare them for his substitute without informing them. (Those who are already preachers can also be prepared as substitute without informing them.)

45. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made some acts of worship easy for some people. For instance, for some people observing fasts is easy and for some to offer Nafl Salah and some take more interest in studying books.

46. Promote the pocket-sized card of ‘ Sadaqay Ya Rasulallah ’. Prevail upon the entire devotees of Rasul of the world to set it.

47. Gather collectively area-wise in order to attend Madani Muzakarahs every week.

48. The 3-day Tarbiyyati Ijtima ’ of I’tikaf -observing Islamic brothers will be held on 3, 4, 5 Sha’ban- ul - Muazzam 1436 AH/ 22, 23, 24 May, 2015 (Friday, Saturday, Sunday) in Global Madani Markaz, Faizan -e-Madinah, Bab- ul -Madinah (Karachi). Obtain information about the places of I’tikaf now and try to overcome the problems or weaknesses in the matters of management.

49. Madani work and extraordinary progress in any department cannot be hidden, it means action speaks.

50. Keep submitting the short and comprehensive progress report of Madani work to your Nigrān .

51. Perform your work in such a good manner that it becomes our recognition.

52. A fund will be established for the welfare of employed Islamic brothers. Rukn -e- Shura Haji Muhammad Aqeel Attari Al- Madani will finalize the Madani pearls for it with the consult of Dar- ul - Ifta Ahl -e- Sunnat . Target: 15 days

53. Majlis -e- Ijarah and Majlis -e- Māliyat are top of the list of those departments which have made a significant progress in 12 months (Rabi’- ul - Awwal 1435 AH to Safar- ul - Muzaffar 1436 AH).

54. Think over the life of a successful person you will get those Madani pearls upon which if you act upon, you will succeed.

Wise is he who protects himself from his enemies.

Every person who kisses hand is not a devotee.

Bayan if contains couplets becomes very inspiring.

Poem is more effective than prose.

Rukn -e- Shura Haji Muhammad Ammad Attari Al- Madani takes a keen interest in Madani Muzakarahs .

Recipe for pulses: Lentil, chickpeas, bean, mung bean - all these four kinds of pulses should be taken in the same quantity and then mixed. Add powder of raw dry mango, tomatoes, other spices, a handful of dry leaves of fenugreek plant and then cook it. Furthermore, gourd and sometimes meat can also be added in it.

Very few people think properly about organization and movement.

There are few Sahib-e- Raye .

Madani Muzakarah (after Isha)

26 Rabi’- ul - Awwal 1436 AH - January 17, 2015

1. Sultan Mahmood Ghaznawi was a king who was a devotee of Rasool .

2. The more we love, the better it is if it is not contrary to Shari’ah .

3. The biggest Wazifah (incantation) is to follow the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and perfect trust in Him.

4. It is said: Life is more valuable than anything else.

5. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to be content with less money!

6. Tolerance is to remain silent and not to disclose anything troublesome from the present condition.

7. Real trouble is the trouble of Hereafter.

8. We cannot become trouble-proof; it comes to the world.

9. Old age is such a trouble that has no cure.

10. Celebrating the month of devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم make intention to offer Salah with Jama’at and form habit to do it forever.

11. Recite 1200 times Salat -‘Alan- Nabi collectively after Salat-ul -‘ Isha every day for 30 days in all the Masajid . Islamic sisters should recite Salat -‘Alan- Nabi 1200 times every day at their own homes.

12. In the month of devotion to the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, give Dars in Masjid and home from the published booklets of Maktaba - tul -Madinah named ‘ Dark-Skinned Slave ’, ‘ Luminous Face’, ‘ Old Worshipper ’ and from the books named ‘ Call to Righteousness ’, ‘ Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society ’, ‘ Faizan -e- Sunnat, ’ etc.

13. At least the foundation of one Masjid should be laid in every Kābinah (Pakistan: 106, Overseas: 148 Total: 254) of Dawat -e- Islami by the name ‘ Faizan -e-Jamal-e-Mustafa’.

14. Islamic sisters should make individual efforts upon at least 12 Islamic sisters in every Kābinah so that they start wearing Madani Burqa ’.

15. Islamic brothers should make individual efforts upon at least 12 Islamic brothers in every Kābinah so that they start wearing green ‘ Imamah .

16. Observe fast throughout the month for the devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم if possible and not prohibited as per Shar’i, otherwise observe fast every Monday.

17. Travel with 3-day Madani Qafilah in the month of devotion to the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (16, 17, 18 Rabi- ul - Akhir 1436 AH / 6, 7, 8 February 2015).

18. To Atabbā the water stored in a fridge or obtained when ice is put into water to make it cool is injurious to health.

19. Mind does one thing at one time.

20. It is useful to wash head with a herb named Areenth for the protection of hair.

21. There is a severe attack of ostentation when weeping due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم before people.

22. In emotional state a person should take a decision wisely.

23. One should make up his mind to have a good company.

24. Take your decisions very carefully; do not dig your own grave after being emotional.

25. It is a Persian proverb: text i.e. the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is better than everything.

26. People who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.

Date of Email: 18 Rabi’- ul - Akhir, 1436 AH – February 6, 2015

Majlis Progress Form and Madani Pearl (Dawat -e- Islami)

