اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Faizan-e-Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

حَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُمْ فَصَلُّوْا عَلَیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاتَكُمْ تَبْلُغُنِیْ

i.e. Recite Salat upon me wherever you are, as your Salat reaches me. (Al-Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 82, Raqm 2729)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! The blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن are those sacred personalities whose dignity, grandeur, rank and status are extremely sublime and exalted. Being drowned in the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they spent their entire life in propagating and spreading the blessed Ahadees. Among those noble personalities, the rank and status that Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه attained was incomparable. The reason because he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in the blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram and his ‘Urs also falls in the same month, hence today, we will be privileged to cover the brief introduction of the famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and listen to the different aspects of his noble Seerah. Let’s firstly listen to a faith-refreshing parable consisting of the passion Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

possessed for worship and try to ignite the passion of performing worship in ourselves too.

Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passion for worship

Once, the famous Muhaddis Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was invited by some of his students. Upon this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to them. When the time of Zuhr approached, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered Salah and then engaged in offering Nawafil. When he finished, he lifted one of the edges of his kameez [long shirt] and said to someone: ‘Look what’s inside my kameez?’ When he saw, there was a poisonous insect that had stung him at sixteen or seventeen different places. Due to it, his blessed body had swollen. People said: ‘When it stung you for the first time, why did you not leave Salah right then?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘I had started (reciting) one surah. I wished for it to be completed (and then I would perform Salaam). (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 2, pp. 13)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to the definition of Muhaddis.

Definition of Muhaddis

The one who remains engaged and occupied in the Ahadees of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is called a Muhaddis. (Nuzha-tul-Nazr, pp. 41)

Birth and lineage

O devotees of Awliya! The famous Muhaddis Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in the famous city of Bukhara on 13 th Shawwal 194 A.H., on Friday after ‘Asr Salah. His name is Muhammad and Kunyah is Abu Abdullah. His lineage is as follows: ‘Muhammad Bin Isma`eel Bin Ibraheem Bin Mugheerah’. The great grandfather of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a farmer and worshipped other than Allah. However, he embraced Islam later on at the hand of the ruler of Bukhara, “Yamaan Ju’fi” . Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had an age of around 62 years and passed away on 1 st Shawwal 256 AH Saturday in the night of Eid-ul-Fitr in the state of an illness.

(Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 1, pp. 13-9) (Irshad-As-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 55-56)

Titles

His famous titles are Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen fil-Hadees, Hafiz-ul-Hadees, Muhaddis, Mufti, ‘Hib-rul-Islam, etc.

Number of his teachers

The number of teachers of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is one thousand and eighty (1,080). (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 119)

Number of his students

A’la Hazrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When (Sayyiduna) Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away, he left behind 90,000 Muhaddis students [those who had the knowledge of Hadees]. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hazrat, pp. 238)

Brief introduction of his blessed father

The blessed father of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great Islamic scholar. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to stay in the company of Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه teacher, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a narrator and the one who possessed the knowledge of Hadees. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated from Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mubarak, Sayyiduna Imam Malik رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہما, their students and those who possessed the knowledge of Hadees in that era.

His Du’as were immensely accepted. To the extent that he would humbly present his plea in the Divine court of Allah Almighty saying that do not accept all my Du’as in this world, leave some for the Hereafter.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so firm on consuming ‘Halal that let alone something ‘Haraam, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would even abstain from suspicious things. To the extent that at the time of his apparent demise, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Whatever wealth I possess, not even a single dirham of it is suspicious.’ Ref (Irshad Al Saari, Tarjama tul Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 55)

Eyesight of Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was restored

Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was still very young when his blessed father رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. Thereafter, his blessed mother رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہا took over all the responsibilities of bringing him up. In the childhood, Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lost his eyesight. Due to this agony, his blessed mother رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہا would weep and supplicate imploringly.

One night, her fortune shone when she fell asleep and in her dream, she saw that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has come and is saying: “you kept supplicating for the eyesight of your son to be restored. Congratulations! As your Du’a has been accepted. Allah Almighty has restored the eyesight of your son.” In the morning, she saw that the eyesight of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had been restored. (Tafheem-ul-Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 4; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! Did you see that what power has Allah Almighty kept in the Du’a of a mother? As when a mother supplicates for her child, then Allah Almighty honours the raised hands of the mother and accepts her Du’a that she asks in the favour of her child. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ mother is that compassionate individual who supplicates imploringly for her children. Du’a of a mother leads one to Paradise. Du’a of a mother makes one obedient to Allah Almighty. Du’a of a mother protects one from evils. Du’a of a mother elevates a person to the rank of Wilayah [sainthood]. Du’a of a mother makes a person lucky. Du’a of a mother is accepted for her children. Du’a of a mother makes one achieve success. Du’a of a mother is a means for mercy to descend. Du’a of a mother is a means for the forgiveness of sins. By the virtue of a mother’s supplication, Allah Almighty removes calamities and trials from the children. May Allah Almighty enable us to attain the privilege of serving our mother, obeying her, keeping her happy and acting upon such actions that would make her supplicate for us.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! If we analyse the blessed Seerah of blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن, then we will find one shining Madani pearl from their noble Seerah that they sacrificed everything to acquire the knowledge of Hadees and to spread its blessings all around. To the extent that they left their homes and travelled in faraway cities and countries in order to acquire the knowledge of Hadees.

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a true reflection of the righteous predecessors اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, hence, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه followed the footsteps of the blessed Muhaddiseen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن and left his homeland for the fulfilment of the same very purpose. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled in faraway cities and used his skills duly in the field of Hadees at a very young age. Let’s see some glimpses of the passion Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed for acquiring knowledge.

Days of (acquiring) education

When Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Isma’eel Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه turned 10, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had already acquired the basic and fundamental knowledge. When Allah Almighty created the passion of acquiring the knowledge of Hadees in his heart, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took admission in (a Madrasah in) “Bukhara” (in order to acquire the knowledge of Hadees). He worked really hard towards acquiring the knowledge of Hadees.

At the age of 16, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled to Makkah and Madina to perform Hajj with his elder brother and mother. After the Hajj, his brother and mother came back to their homeland but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed behind in order to acquire further knowledge. Moreover, at the age of eighteen (18), he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه authored one book [1] over there. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 56; Summarized) (Tazkirah-tul- Muhaddiseen, pp. 172)

Travel in order to acquire knowledge

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed in Hijaz-e-Muqaddas (i.e. that part of ‘Arab Shareef that consists of Makkah-e-Mukarramah, Madina-e-

Munawwarah and Taif) for six years and acquired immense knowledge of Deen. In order to acquire the knowledge of Deen, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه embarked upon many journeys. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه travelled twice to Syria, Egypt and Jazeera, four times to Basra and many times to Kufa and Baghdad (cities in Iraq). (Siyar A’laam-un-Nubala, vol. 10, pp. 285)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The blessings that Allah Almighty blesses His bondmen with, “the ability of memorising” is also one of them. Through this blessing, a person is enabled to save the information of the entire world in the memory of his mind easily and takes full benefit from it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also among those fortunate individuals who were blessed by Allah Almighty with the blessing of (good) memory. Through this tremendous blessing that he attained from the court of Allah Almighty and his unmatchable intellect, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had memorised thousands of Ahadees by heart. Let’s listen to some heartening glimpses of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ability of memorising things.

Mentioned one thousand Ahadees by heart

Once, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to (the famous city of Khurasan) Balkh. People requested him to relay some Ahadees to them. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه relayed to them one thousand Ahadees by heart. (Siyar A’laam-un-Nubala, vol. 10, pp. 289)

15,000 Ahadees in 16 days

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Abi Haatim and Sayyiduna Hashid Bin Isma’eel رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ عَلَیْہِما state:

In the young age, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to visit the blessed scholars of Basra with us to learn Hadees. Apart from Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, all of us used to write the Hadees down in order to secure it. After sixteen days, we had a go at Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying that you have wasted the hard work of so many days by not recording

down the Ahadees. Listening to it, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to us: ‘Well, bring your pages (where you have written down the Ahadees).’ Therefore, we brought our pages. Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started mentioning the Ahadees. To the extent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned more than fifteen thousand (15,000) Ahadees. Listening to them made us think as if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the one who made us write down (all) those narrations. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 59)

Hafiz of seventy thousand Ahadees

Once, Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه visited Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: ‘Had you come a little while ago, then I would have made you meet the child who remembers seventy thousand (70,000) Ahadees by heart.’ Listening to this astonishing fact, an urge to meet Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rose in the heart of Sayyiduna Suleiman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Therefore, after leaving from Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Salaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started looking for Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه met Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, then Sayyiduna Suleiman Bin Mujahid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Are you the one who has memorised seventy thousand (70,000) Ahadees?’ Listening to it, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Yes. I in fact know more Ahadees than this. Moreover, the blessed Sahabah عَـلَيْهِمُ الرِّضْوَانْ and Tabi’een from whom I narrate the Hadees, I also know the date of birth, place of living and date of demise of most of them. (Irshad-us-Saari, Tarjama-tul-Imam Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 59)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You have just heard that Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه memory was exceptional! Not only did he memorize more than 70,000 Ahadees by heart in his childhood, but he also memorized most of the narrators of those Ahadees along with their date of birth, their biography and their date of demise. Without a doubt, this was the special grace of Allah Almighty and the

distinctive blessings of our Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that people would praise his matchless memory!

On the other hand, today, our memories have become so weak that we cannot even recall simple events that took place yesterday! We have no problem remembering dates of the Gregorian calendar, but unfortunately are unaware of the Madani [Islamic] months and dates. We fall into difficulties with daily dealings and even fall into doubts regarding our Rak’ats of Salah i.e. how many have I offered and how many are left? Even if we read a book or booklet repeatedly, we fail to memorize its topics and rulings.

However, if we wish to improve our memory and make it strong, if we wish to cure ourselves of forgetfulness, if we wish to know about the methods of strengthening memory and get to know about the reasons that cause memory loss, then we can attain the knowledge regarding this by reading Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s published book ‘Hafizah Kaysay Mazboot Ho?’

An easy Wazifah for strengthening memory

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْکَامِلِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ کَمَا لَا نِھَایَۃَ لِکَمَالِکَ وَعَدَدَ کَمَالِہٖ

Shaykh e Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ narrates the excellence of this Durood: If a person suffers from amnesia (forgetfulness), then he should recite this Durood abundantly between Maghrib and ‘Isha Salah. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his memory will become strong. (Madani Panj Surah, pp. 169)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Generally, we see that when someone becomes well known amongst common people and dignitaries for any of her achievements, then she starts considering herself to be “something”. She considers of others as lower than herself. She feels shame and disgrace in doing routine tasks herself and feels a pang for the greed of this world, fame and reputation. While following his worldly desires, she becomes heedless regarding the Hereafter!

However, may we be sacrificed for Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه! He never allowed even an atom’s worth of arrogance and haughtiness close to him despite having memorized hundreds of thousands of Ahadees! He held firm to humility and humbleness. He practically embraced simplicity. He adopted asceticism and contentment during the years of his education.

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humility and humbleness

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه chosen student Muhammad bin Haatim Warraaq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates: Once, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was building a travellers lodge near Bukhara. Alongside him were also many of his helpers and admirers, but despite this, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was lifting bricks himself and building walls! I stepped forward and said: ‘Please leave this, I will place the bricks!’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘This action will benefit me on the Day of Judgement!’ (Irshad-ul-Saari, vol. 1, pp. 65)

Would eat dry bread!

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even survived on eating dry grass at times during his years of studies.

At times, he would usually eat only two or three almonds throughout the day. On one occasion, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill. The doctors said that his intestines had become dry due to constantly eating dry bread. On hearing this diagnosis, Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه informed them that he had been consuming dry bread for forty years and during this time, he had not even touched curry. (Tazkirah-tul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 182)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard the tremendous Madani enthusiasm of the chosen servants of Allah Almighty that they would busy themselves in seeking Islamic knowledge with outstanding fervour and passion even while surviving on just dry bread without any curry. In contrast today, our society is seen busy round the clock chasing the degrees (of worldly education) and monetary achievements of this world; while the number of students studying in Islamic universities and Madaris remains at all-time low despite having wonderful facilities free of cost. Whereas, the state is such that most of the people are unaware of the basic Faraaid and Wajibat of Shari’ah.

Seeking religious knowledge is not just Fard (obligatory) upon a certain group of people; but seeking religious knowledge according to one’s requirements is Fard upon every Muslim. How regretful is our situation that today, a large number of Muslims are distant from religious knowledge.

If we take a look at Salah offering individuals, we see that they have been offering Salah for 40 years, yet some do not know how to perform Wudhu and some do not know the correct method of Ghusl! Some individuals are not performing the Faraaid (obligatory acts) of Salah in the correct manner while some do not know the Wajibat of Salah! Here someone’s Qira’at is not correct and there someone’s Sajdah is incorrect! Unfortunately, the same predicament is seen in other acts of worship. Especially those who have performed Hajj would know that how many mistakes are made during Hajj.

Majority of them are those who say ‘just travel for Hajj and copy what others are doing’. If this is the case in the acts of worship, then imagine their state in other Fard Uloom (obligatory knowledge)! Similarly, it is compulsory to have knowledge regarding spiritual maladies like jealousy, hatred, malice, arrogance, backbiting, tale-telling, slandering etc. However, the vast majority do not even know the obligation of having knowledge regarding these terms, let alone knowing their definition. These are those things that people generally know to be a sin.

There are other areas such as Madaris and many other topics where people do not even know that rulings even exist! It is a strange environment all around. In these dire times, we should not only acquire the religious knowledge ourselves but also persuade other Islamic sisters.

If all parents persuade their children; every teacher persuades her students to acquire religious knowledge, then within a short span of time, religious knowledge will spread all around and observance to Shar’iah will become the norm.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reverence of the blessed Ahadees

O devotees of Rasool! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is among those distinguished personalities who were embodiment of respect and reverence, and were true devotees of the Holy Rasool.

By having the deep and devoted love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه strictly held firm to the elements of reverence and respect and gathered a precious treasure of compilation of the most authentic Ahadees out of hundreds of thousands of Ahadees in the form of “Sahih Bukhari” and presented it to the Ummah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to the greatness and eminence of this sacred book.

Imam Bukhari’s way of writing Hadees

Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have mentioned around 6,000 Ahadees in Sahih Bukhari. Before writing every Hadees, I would perform Ghusl, offer 2 Rak’at Nafl Salah and perform Istikharah. When I would be ensured over the authenticity of any Hadees, then I would add it in the book. (Hadi-ul-Saari, vol. 1, pp. 10) (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, pp. 130)

Hafiz of 600,000 Ahadees

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states at another place: I know six hundred thousand Ahadees by heart. It took me sixteen years to choose from them and write this compilation (Bukhari). I have made it a proof (Wasilah) between myself and Allah Almighty. (Muqaddamah, Fath-ul-Baari, pp. 10) I have written only Sahih Ahadees in my book. Those Ahadees that I left thinking the book would grow very long are a lot more in number than these. (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, pp. 130)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also wrote various other books [1] but Sahih Bukhari is such a remarkable achievement of Sayyiduna Imam Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه which not only acquired acclaim among the common people and special dignitaries, but also acquired immense acclaim in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم too. How was that? The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم associated it towards himself by calling it “my book” .

Acceptance of Sahih Bukhari in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Imam Abu Zaid رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: My fortune shone when I was once asleep in Makkah-e-Mukarramah between Maqaam-e-Ibraheem and ‘Hajar-e-Aswad. I saw a dream that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is saying: ‘O Abu Zaid! Until when will you keep delivering the Dars of Kitab-e-Shafi’i? Why don’t you deliver the Dars of my book?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I humbly requested: ‘Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my life be sacrificed upon you! Which is your book?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Jami’ Muhammad Bin Isma’eel, i.e. Imam Bukhari’s book “Bukhari Shareef” . (Bustan-ul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 275)

Dear Islamic sisters! Just ponder. What great blessings and virtues would be reaped by those who read, listen to and finish the book that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم likes and associates towards himself. For persuasion, let’s go through some of the virtues of Khatm-e-Bukhari (completion of Bukhari).

Benefits of Khatm-e-Bukhari

(Some) ‘Aarifeen رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن narrate: If Sahih Bukhari is read at the time of a difficulty, then that difficulty gets removed. Moreover, the ship containing Sahih Bukhari will not sink.

Hafiz Ibn-e-Kaseer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reading “Sahih Bukhari” during the time of famine makes rain descend down. (Tazkirah-tul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 198)

The famous Muhaddis, Sayyiduna Shaykh Abdul Azeez Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Reading this book at the time of severities, from the fear of enemies, from the severity of illness and other calamities serves as a remedy. This has been experienced many times.

(Bustan-ul-Muhaddiseen, pp. 274; summarised)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that after the Glorious Quran, Sahih Bukhari has been considered to be the most authentic book. Khatm-e-Bukhari is performed at the time of calamities. By the virtue of it and grace of Allah Almighty, the calamities get removed.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 11; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Devotee of Rasool Islamic sisters! We are in the blessed month of Ramadan receiving its blessings and mercies. In this month, the birthday of a beloved saint of Allah Almighty is also celebrated. He is known to the world by the name of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allama Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyae دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . Let’s listen to the Zikr of Attar in relation to his birthday.

Celebration of Attar’s Birthday on 26th Ramadan:

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allama Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyae دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ was born on 26th Ramadan, 1369 AH [1950] in Babul Madinah [Karachi], a famous city of Pakistan. His ancestors were residing in Gujarat, the province of India. His grandfather Abdul Raheem was well-known for his nobility in his area. When Pakistan came into being, the parents of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat migrated to Pakistan from India. In the beginning, he resided in Hyderabad, a famous city of Babul Islam (Sindh). After living for some time in Hyderabad, he came to Babul Madinah (Karachi) and started residing here.

Yearning for Islamic knowledge:

Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has great yearning for gaining Islamic knowledge. That’s why he gained Islamic knowledge in his youth. For this purpose, he chose the study of books and the company of blessed Islamic scholars from the sources of gaining Islamic knowledge. For this reason, he continued to attain the blessing for 22 years from the blessed company of Mufti-e-A’zam of Pakistan Allama Maulana Mufti Waqaruddin Qaadiri Razavi

and then the time also came when Mufti Sahib blessed Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat with his Khilafat and permission.

Daily routine of Attar:

His life is famous for punctuality and steadfastness. He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ offers Salah with Jama’at and takes great care of Sunnahs and manners all the time. He usually likes to wear a simple and white dress without it being pressed, whereas he wears a small-sized Imama. He is seen making great efforts in order to reform people. He does not remain quiet if he sees someone doing something against Sharia or Sunnah, but rather he reforms that person immediately in a good manner with kindness. In this critical age, when people are not paying attention to Islamic knowledge, everyone is paying attention to worldly education and there is a lack of knowledge of Islamic rulings, ignorance is spreading everywhere. Under such critical circumstances, he remained busy serving religion day and night and finally in 1401 AH [1981] established Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, the Madani message of which has reached the entire world. Dawat-e-Islami is serving religion in more than 107 departments. Millions of people are gaining benefit from it. Madani transformation is taking place in the lives of the people associated with Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . People are repenting of their sins and performing virtuous deeds. So we should associate ourselves with this great pious saint and by doing this try to make efforts to accomplish the Madani aim given to us by him ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadan! After Ramadan, the blessed month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram will arrive. Fortunate Muslims attain the privilege of keeping 6 Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr in this month and attain its blessings. Let us also listen to the virtues of these six Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr so that we could also be privileged to keep these Siyam and be blessed with their blessings.

Blessings of the 6 Siyam after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who kept the Siyam of Ramadan, then kept 6 Siyam in Shawwal, he gets free from sins as if he was given birth by his mother today. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 5102)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who kept the Siyam of Ramadan and then kept 6 [Siyam] in Shawwal, it is as if he observed Sawm for [his] entire life. (Muslim, pp. 592, Hadees 2758)

3. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who kept 6 Siyam (in Shawwal) after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr kept Siyam for the whole year; as the one who will bring one virtuous deed will get ten (in return). (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 2, pp. 333, Hadees 1715)

Khaleel-e-Millat, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: There is no harm even if these Siyam are kept consecutively straight after the ‘Eid. The better approach for one seems for him to keep 2 Siyam per week and keep one Sawm the next day after ‘Eid-ul-Fitr. Furthermore, it sounds even more suitable if one keeps these Siyam over the entire month. (Sunni Bihishti Zaywar, pp. 347; summarised)

In short, 6 Siyam of this month can be kept whenever one wants throughout the month, except for the ‘Eid day.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearl regarding blessed Hadees

Dear Islamic sisters! Bringing the speech towards the end, let’s attain the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls regarding Hadees. First of all, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

1. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: The one who memorises and imparts 40 Ahadees relating to religious affairs to my Ummah, Allah Almighty will raise him with such dignity on the Day of Judgement that he will be a Faqih. I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement and bear witness for him. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 68, Hadees 258)

2. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: May Allah Almighty keep him fresh who listens to my Hadees, memorises it and relays it to others. (Tirmizi vol. 4, pp. 298, Hadees 2665)

٭ In Islam, after Kalamullah (i.e. the Holy Quran) is the rank of Kalam-e-Rasool Allah (i.e. blessed Ahadees). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 2)

٭ It is Fard [obligatory] for every human being to obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this obedience is impossible without knowing Hadees and Sunnah. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 9)

٭ Claiming to have Iman on the Holy Quran after denying the Ahadees is merely a false statement. (Nuzhat-ul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 36)

٭ Do not state something [as a Hadees] unless it is known that it is really a blessed Hadees. (Faizan Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 451)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Refrain from stating a Hadees attributed to me unless you have certain knowledge. The one who deliberately associated a lie with me should make his abode in the Hell. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 439, Hadees 2960)

