اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Foul Smell of Lying

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللّٰہَ غَدً ا رَاضِیًا، فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ

I.e. the one who likes that Allah Almighty be pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah Almighty, then he shall recite Durood upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

O devotees of Rasool! [Before listening to the Bayan], first of all let’s make good intentions for attaining Divine pleasure and earning rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall, etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Lying is a major sin, Haraam, and an act that leads towards the Hell. Today, let us listen to the Ayahs, Ahadees and admonitory parables condemning lying. Firstly, listen to an admonitory account.

Woman trying to possess land unjustly turned blind

A woman named Arwa disputed with Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ regarding some part of his house. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Give this piece of land to her. I heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘The one who takes even a hand span of land unjustly, he will be made to wear a garland of seven earths on the Day of Judgement.’ After this, he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ supplicated, ‘O Allah Almighty! If she is lying, then make her blind and make her grave in the same very house.’

The narrator states: I saw that woman had turned blind. She used to look for walls by touching them from her hands and used to say, ‘I have been affected by the Du’a made by Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ against me.’ Finally, one day, she fell in the well while walking in the home and died, and the same well became her grave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 669, Hadees 4133)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard that what devastative consequences lying possesses? As what a painful and admonitory death a woman faced due to lying. Remember! Allah Almighty has blessed humans with countless blessings. Out of them, one great bounty is “tongue”. Apparently, it’s only a small piece of flesh, but it is a great blessing of Allah Almighty. Perhaps, only a mute person can appreciate this blessing. Its positive use can make one enter Paradise and wrong use can make one enter Hell. If someone uses his tongue to recite the blessed Kalimah-e-Tayyibah with sincerity, then Paradise becomes Wajib for him.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: “The one who said ‘ لَاۤ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللّٰہُ ’ will enter Paradise, and Paradise will become Wajib for him.” (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 356, Hadees 7713)

If the same tongue is used to disobey Allah Almighty, then it is a means of a great calamity. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: “Majority of a man’s sins are committed through his tongue.”

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 240, Hadees 4933)

Lying is also one of the ways of evil use of tongue. A liar not only becomes disgraced among people by losing his trust in them, but even angels do not

come close to such person. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘When a person lies, then angel distances a mile away due to its foul smell.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 392, Hadees 1979)

Foul smell emanating from a liar’s mouth

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When a believer lies without a [Shar’i] reason, then something possessing foul smell emanates from his mouth. To the extent that it reaches ‘Arsh. The ‘Arsh-bearing angels curse him, 80,000 angels along with them curse him and 80 sins are written in his account. The smallest of those sins is like the mount Uhud. (Bustan-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 61)

It is stated in the blessed Fatawa Razawiyyah: “Lying and backbiting are inner diseases. Therefore, a foul odour is produced from the mouth of a liar. Angels that protect him distance themselves from him. Likewise, it is highlighted in a Hadees that the Most Dignified Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم identifying an odour, informed that this is the foul odour from the mouths of those who backbite against Muslims.”

We do not feel this odour because our senses have become accustomed to this smell like the smell of leather does not bother the people who live close to a leather-processing factory, but if somebody comes to visit, they might not be able to stand the smell. The Muslims should remember this and have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and try their utmost to rid themselves of the habit of lying and backbiting. Else, would anyone like to excrete from their mouth? If we open our inner senses, we would realize that the odour of lying and backbiting is worse than the stench of excrement. (Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 135)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O Devotees of Rasool! Have you heard that such severe foul smell emanates from the mouth of a lying person that the angels of Allah’s mercy go a mile away. But we do not feel this smell because our nose gets used to the prevailed foul smell that emanates everywhere due to the excess of lying.

Try to understand it from the following example. When a sewerage is being cleaned, then an ordinary person cannot even stand next to it due to its foul smell. But a sewerage cleaner does not even notice it because his nose becomes used to its foul smell. Therefore, we should refrain from this bad habit and adopting the company of liars because lying is such an evil practice that weakens one’s Iman [faith]. Frequent lying is a proof for the weakness of Iman. Allah Almighty states in Ayah 105 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14:

اِنَّمَا یَفْتَرِی الْكَذِبَ الَّذِیْنَ لَا یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاٰیٰتِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْكٰذِبُوْنَ(۱۰۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those who do not believe in Allah’s Verses attribute false allegation, and only they are liars.

Under this Ayah, it is mentioned in Tafseer-e-Khaazin: This Ayah refutes the false accusation of the disbelievers which they accused the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with, that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made Quran by himself. The summary of this Ayah is that lying and slandering are indeed the acts of faithless people. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, Surah An-Nahl, Taht-al-Ayah: 105, vol. 3, pp. 144)

Renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: This Ayah is a strong proof upon the fact that lying is the biggest sin among all major sins; because only such a person dares to lie and slander who does not believe in the signs of Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty condemning lying in such a way is a very serious warning.

(Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 272)

O devotees of Awliya! You have heard that the Glorious Quran declares lying to be a habit of faithless people. Indeed, lying is such an evil habit that even the main tribal chiefs in the era of ignorance used to severely hate it and would not like to have a lie associated with them.

When Caesar received the invitation of Islam from the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through a letter, then he called Abu Sufyan in his court (who till then had not become a Muslim but in relation to the lineage, he was very close to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). In order to get an idea regarding the truthfulness of Holy Rasool’s Nubuwwah [Prophethood],

Caesar asked various questions to Abu Sufyan regarding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Although Abu Sufyan held enmity against the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at that time due to Kufr [disbelief], but even then he gave honest answers to all the question which Caesar asked him regarding the blessed character of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The only reason why he did not lie to degrade the status of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was that due to lying, the society will call me a liar and this worse of the sins will be associated with me. Therefore, while mentioning the reason for not lying to degrade the status of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and speaking the truth out of compulsion, he himself states: ‘ فَوَ اللہِ لَوْلَا الْحَیَاءُ مِنْ اَنْ یَاثِرُوْا عَلَیَّ کَذِبًا لَکَذَبْتُ عَنْہُ ’ i.e. by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If I did not fear being embarrassed over the fact that people will associate [the act of] lying against me, then I would have lied against the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 10, Hadees 7)

Dear Islamic brothers! This parable proves that people used to severely hate lying even before Islam. That was the only reason why Sayyiduna Abu Sufyan رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not lie about the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that people do not say about him that a dignified chief like Abu Sufyan also lies.

Just ponder that how evil the practice of lying is that it was considered to be evil among people even before Islam. Then why do we not try to refrain from this evil practice despite being Muslims? Whereas, Allah Almighty has commanded us to refrain from it. Allah Almighty says in part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 30:

وَ اجْتَنِبُوْا قَوْلَ الزُّوْرِۙ(۳۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And avoid false speech .

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard that we have been commanded to refrain from lying in the Glorious Quran; because lying is a sign of the weakness of faith [Iman]. Lying is such an epidemic that is spreading rapidly in our society.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! How bad people are those who create separation between husband and wife, friends and relatives by lying. Whereas, Shar’iah loves unity among Muslims so much that it allows one to lie in order to create reconciliation between two Muslims.

Sayyiduna Abu Kaahil رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: There was some dispute between two companions رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, to the extent that they both stopped talking to each other. I met one of them and said: ‘What’s your issue with so and so? I heard him praising you immensely.’ Then I met the other one and said the same to him, to the extent that they both reconciled. Then I thought to myself: ‘I have indeed reconciled both of them, but have destroyed myself (by lying).’ Therefore, I relayed this to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Upon this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘O Abu Kaahil! Do reconcile people, even if you have to lie.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 18, pp. 361, Hadees 927)

O devotees of Rasool! Lying in order to create fight among Muslims is an extremely evil practice. This spreads mischief among one another and spreads hatred and enmity. Therefore, we shall fear the torment of Allah Almighty and protect ourselves against the destructive evil of lying. Otherwise, one does face disgrace and humility in this world upon being caught for lying, but he can also be subject to face painful torment in the Hereafter. With the intention of abandoning lying and always speaking the truth, let us listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Speaking truth is indeed [an act of] righteousness and [an act of] righteousness leads one to Paradise. And lying is a sin and a sin leads one to the Hell.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1077, Hadees 6638)

2 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Lying indeed leads towards sin, and sin leads towards the Hell. And undoubtedly, a person keeps lying, to the extent that he becomes an extremely grave liar [in the court of] Allah Almighty.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

3 One person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Which action leads

towards the Hell?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Lying. When a person lies, then he commits a sin. And when he commits a sin, then he is ungrateful. And when he is ungrateful, then he enters the Hell.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! You have heard! How great the habit of truthfulness is that it leads a person to the Paradise. Whereas, lying is such an evil practice that throws a person into the pits of Hell. A liar is inscribed as a grave sinner in the court of Allah Almighty and this evil habit makes a person sinner.

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘A liar becomes a firm transgressor and sinner in future. Lying leads one to [committing] thousands of sins, and it is proven from experience too. The first one to lie was the Satan, as he said to Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: ‘I am your well-wisher’. He further states: A liar gets trapped into every type of sin and people naturally lose trust in him. People start hating him. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 453)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Lying in order to make people laugh

O devotees of Awliya! Whether a sin is small or big, wellbeing lies in refraining from it; especially from the [sinful] act of lying, as one lie becomes a means of [committing] various sins. In order to hide one lie, people have to tell various other lies.

But unfortunately, large number of people are trapped in the evil of lying today. Many such occasions come where there is no harm in speaking the truth, but yet people lie there too. For example, in a gathering of few people, people lie in order to make one another laugh and make the gathering more enjoyable. Let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that condemn lying in order to make people laugh.

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A person speaks, and does so only to make people laugh, due to it, he falls in such depth of Hell that is even more than the distance between the sky and earth. Undoubtedly, the wrongdoing that one commits through his tongue is severer than the one that he commits through his feet. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 213, Hadees 4832)

2 Woe to him who lies when he speaks so that he makes people laugh through it. Woe to him! Woe to him!

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 142, Hadees 2322)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! There is sheer loss in having useless gatherings, wasting time in restaurants, wasting time in the gatherings of friends and telling lies in order to make people laugh. Because in such gatherings, it becomes extremely difficult to protect your tongue against the sins like useless conversation, backbiting, tale-telling and lying etc.

If in case one ever has to attend such gathering, then he shall try to refrain from these sins and speak the truth instead of lying. Our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would never lie. Rather, they would always speak the truth even if the other person did not like it.

Sayyiduna Taa`oos رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the caliph of the time, Hashshaam, and asked him: ‘Hashshaam! How are you?’ He replied furiously: ‘Why did you not address me as “Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen?”’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Because all the Muslims do not agree with your caliphate. Hence, I feared in case calling you Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen would be deemed as a lie.’

After narrating this parable, Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Therefore, the one who is truthful to this extent and can refrain from these kinds of evils (like backbiting, tale-telling, showing off, vanity, flattering etc.) may, by all means, socialise with people. Or else, he should be ready to get his name written in the list of hypocrites.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 287)

Lying despite having a desire for something

Dear Islamic brothers! One form of lying quite prevalent in our society is also that a person desires for something and also wants to acquire it, but when asked whether he wants it, he lies and replies: I do not want it.

Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: I humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! If anyone of us desires for something and says that he doesn’t want it, then would this be considered to be a lie?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Undoubtedly, lying is inscribed as [an act of] lie, to the extent that a small lie is inscribed as a small lie.’

(Ithaf-us-Sadat-il-Muttaqeen, vol. 9, pp. 283)

Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-Yazeed رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: Food was presented in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presented it to us. We said: ‘We do not desire [for it].’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Do not gather hunger and lying together.’

(Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 26, Hadees 3298)

After mentioning this blessed Hadees, Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘If somebody feeds someone when he is hungry, then he should eat. He shall not say that he is not hungry; as not eating as well as lying both are a means of loss in this world and in the Hereafter. Some people who feel hesitation normally do this, and a lot of villagers are used to the habit that unless they are not insisted upon frequently, they keep denying to eat. They say that we don’t have the desire to eat. It is imperative to refrain from lying.’

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, vol. 3, pp. 372)

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘If somebody comes while eating food, then it is Sunnah to invite him for the meal too. However, one shall invite him wholeheartedly, not merely as a formality. Moreover, the one who came shall not also lie by saying that I don’t have the desire to eat, so that hunger and [act of] lying do

not gather together. Rather, if (he does not want to eat or) the food is less, then he shall say: ‘ بَارَکَ اللہ ’ (i.e. may Allah Almighty give Barakah to you).

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 202)

Madani upbringing of children

O devotees of Rasool! Remember! Lying is an extremely evil practice. We are to refrain from lying ourselves as well as provide our children with such Madani upbringing that they also become familiar with this major sin from their childhood. They should know that what is lying. What are the blessings of speaking the truth? What are the harms of lying? Generally, we lack in providing correct upbringing to our children in various matters because we do not pay much attention to it. In fact, at times, we provide them wrong upbringing in regards to lying.

A question arises here in mind that how come? Yes indeed. At times when there is a knock at the door, then despite being at home, the child is sent out with the message that, son tell them that “ Dad is not home ”. When the teacher would contact you due to the unauthorised absences of your child from the school, then you would perhaps respond them saying that “ our child is ill since so many days ”, whereas the reason behind the absences would be something else. There are so many such examples where if we do not bring our children up from the aspect of these minor perspectives, then lying could be embedded into their character.

Remember! If they are brought up in a similar fashion, then it is highly likely that when they grow up, they will go astray rather than becoming civilised, because they would know that if “lying” was an evil practice by any means, then our parents would definitely protect us from it as they protected us from other harmful things. They would have protected us against it and educated us regarding it.

O devotees of Awliya! May we be sacrificed upon the Madani mind-set of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . He is committed in reforming the Ummah by conveying them

the call to righteousness from every possible aspect. He keeps blessing people associated with every walk of life with Madani Tarbiyyah [edification] and guiding principles from time to time. Let’s take an example of the same very topic of “lying”. Along with providing Madani Tarbiyyah on this topic through books, booklets and Madani Muzakarahs, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has also given the Muslim Ummah an extremely informative booklet comprising of 44 pages. It is such a booklet that not only provides Madani Tarbiyyah to children but also to elders in a beautiful manner. This booklet is called “ Jhoota Chor ” [The Lying Thief]. This booklet is the fourth booklet of the series “ Bachchaun ki Sachchi Kahaniyan ” [true tales of children]. In this booklet, you will be able to read:

٭ How was the lying thief sentenced?

٭ Who was the lying thief with a bent staff?

٭ How did the children of liars become swine?

٭ In what form would a liar enter Hell?

٭ What is the consequence of relaying a false dream?

٭ How did the truth-speaking shepherd get blessings? How did he survive due to speaking the truth?

٭ 24 examples of kids’ lies.

٭ Useful Madani pearls for everyone, children and elders, etc.

This booklet can not only be read out from the website of Dawat-e-Islami, www.dawateislami.net, but can also be downloaded and printed out from there.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Relaying false dreams

Dear Islamic brothers! Another common form of lying is that some people relay false dreams in order to become dignified before people or for any other purpose. Remember! This is also impermissible and sinful act. Blessed Ahadees have strongly condemned it.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The biggest lie is that a person associates himself towards someone else instead of his father, or he claims to have seen something in his dream which he has not, or associates something with the Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) of Allah which he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) has not said. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 476, Hadees 3509)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: The one who relays a false dream, on the Day of Judgement, he will be punished by being sentenced to tie a knot between two barley seeds, and he will never be able to do so.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 422, Hadees 7042)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall refrain from relaying a false dream and asking for its interpretation, as even if the interpretation of a false dream is mentioned, it still takes place. Let’s listen to an admonitory account in this regard.

Consequence of relaying a false dream

A person relayed a dream to Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said: ‘I saw a dream that there is a glass bowl in my hand which also contains water. The bowl actually breaks but water remains as it is.’ Upon hearing this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Fear Allah Almighty (and do not lie), because you have not seen any such dream.’ That person said: ‘ سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰـه! I am relaying a dream to you and you are saying that I have not seen any dream?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘It is indeed a lie. Hence, I am not responsible for the outcome of this lie. If you really have seen this dream, then your wife will give birth to a child. Then she will die and the child will remain alive.’ After this, when he left from there, he said: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I did not see any such dream.’ Listening to it, somebody said: ‘But he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned the outcome of the dream.’

Sayyiduna Hishaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Not much time had passed since this incident took place that his wife gave birth to a child. Then she passed away and the child remained alive. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 53, pp. 232)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Lying in order to sell goods

Dear Islamic brothers! Another form of lying that exists in our society is also that people lie in order to sell their goods, in fact, they don’t even hesitate in taking a false oath over it. Lying excessively in business is unfortunately considered as a great business acumen whereas speaking the truth is مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه considered to be foolishness and an obstacle in business development.

Such people should firmly engrave in their minds that we will only get the sustenance that Allah Almighty has written for us in our fate. Neither would our sustenance decrease by the virtue of speaking truth and nor can we attain more sustenance than what is inscribed for us by lying. However, lying brings about lack of blessings, financial crises and wrath of Allah Almighty. In this regard, listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and repent from lying in business:

1 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘Buyer and seller both have choice before separating [from each other]. If both of them spoke the truth and made witnesses, then there would be blessing in their goods. And if both of them concealed and lied, then it is possible that they may end up having a profit, but blessing will be taken away from their goods.

(Abu Dawood, pp. 377, Hadees 3459)

2 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Undoubtedly, only traders are sinners.’ The blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Has Allah Almighty not made buying and selling Halal?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Why not. But when they speak, they lie. They take oaths and become sinners.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 5, pp. 288, Hadees 15530)

Dear Islamic brothers! If we carry out trade according to the Islamic principles of trade while adopting truthfulness, honesty, justice, piety and righteousness, looking after each other, selflessness and wishing good for others, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه there will be a lot of blessings in our business. A great prosperity would prevail across the Muslim society and we would also attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Awliya! We get worried if we fall ill and start treatment for its cure. If the treatment is not available in our own city or country, then we even travel to the other city or country for the treatment. In short, we make our utmost efforts to get cured from that illness.

Remember! Lying is also a dangerous illness which can become a means of disgrace and humility in this world, and a means of the destruction of the Hereafter. Therefore, refrain from lying and always speak the truth in order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty. In order to refrain from lying, let us listen to few cures as well.

Few ways of refraining from lying

٭ In order to refrain from lying, supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty in the following manner: O Allah Almighty! Save us from the curse of lying and in order to attain the blessings of speaking the truth, enable us to always speak the truth.

٭ Read the Ayahs of the Holy Quran, blessed Ahadees and saying of the righteous predecessors that condemn [the act of] lying. In this way, you will develop hatred towards [the act of] lying.

٭ Develop the fear of Allah Almighty in yourself. As if we have the fear of Allah Almighty, then along with other sins, it would become easier for us to refrain from [the sin of] lying as well.

٭ Adopt a good company. As by its virtue, you will develop a mind-set to adopt good habits.

٭ In order to refrain from lying, read the biographies of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, as these righteous individuals spent their entire lives according to Shar’iah and whilst following the Sunnah.

٭ Ponder over the consequences of lying. As in what grave consequences liars have to face in this world and the Hereafter. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه, this will also create hatred against lying.

٭ Make it your routine to act upon the Madani In’amaat and travel with the Madani Qafilahs. By the virtue of it, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه you will develop hatred against the sins like lying, backbiting, tale-telling etc.

٭ Be fully involved in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. By the virtue of it, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه it will become easier to refrain from this evil practice [of lying].

“Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan”, one of the 12 Madani activities

O devotees of Rasool! Studying or teaching in “Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan (for Islamic brothers)” is also one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه,

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the privilege of reciting the Holy Quran correctly.

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is a great source of learning the important rulings of Salah, Wudu and Ghusl etc.

٭ By the virtue of attending Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains a good company.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the privilege of learning and teaching recitation of the Holy Quran.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the treasure of [Islamic] knowledge.

٭ By the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one gets the passion of acting upon the Madani In’amaat.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable regarding the blessings of studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan and rejoice.

Developed a routine of attending the Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’

An Islamic brother from Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) was used to watching films and dramas, listening to music and carrying out unlawful gazing before associating with the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. He did not have a mind-set to offer Salah punctually either. An Islamic brother invited him to participate in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan while calling him towards righteousness. He started studying in Madrasa-tul Madinah Baalighan.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, by the virtue of Madrasa-tul-Madinah (Baalighan), he became used to participating in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. While becoming the disciple of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, he became steadfast on Salah and started delivering Dars in Masjid. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, he abandoned sins like watching films and dramas, listening to music, unlawful gazing etc., and is striving to make his household offer Salah punctually too by calling them towards righteousness.

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

O devotees of Awliya! Remain associated at all times with the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is carrying out Madani activities in more or less 107 departments. One department out of them is Madrassa-tul-Madina Baalighan.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه! In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, elder Islamic brothers are taught Madani Qa’idah and Holy Quran with correct pronunciation free of cost. Fortunate devotees of Rasool studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan also acquire a lot of Islamic knowledge along with acquiring the knowledge of the Holy Quran.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه! The Jadwal [schedule] of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan consists of learning rulings regarding Salah, Ghusl, Wudu, funeral Salah and Sunnahs from the book “ Laws of Salah ”, delivering Madani Dars, listening to speeches comprising of Fard knowledge, memorising Du’a, and performing Fikr-e-Madinah [self-accountability] from the booklet of Madani In’amaat at the end.

Remember! Thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Baalighan are being held in Pakistan and abroad under the supervision of this department. Over one hundred thousand devotees of Rasool are acquiring the education of the Holy Quran free of cost. You too should gather courage, and attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan in order to acquire the knowledge of the Holy Quran and also persuade other Islamic brothers to do so. May Allah Almighty enable us all to recite the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What is April fool?

Dear Islamic brothers! Another form of lying that exists in our society is in the form of April fool which is celebrated on 1 st of April as a festival. Some people enjoy fooling others on this day by telling them fake distressing news and deceiving them in different ways. For example, someone is told:

٭ Your young son is severely injured due to an accident at such and such place and he has been taken into so and so hospital.

٭ So and so relative of yours has passed away.

٭ Your shop has caught fire.

٭ There has been robbery in your shop.

٭ Someone has unjustly taken over your property.

٭ Your car has been stolen.

٭ Your son has been kidnapped for ransom etc.

Then when the truth gets revealed, then they mock the other person by uttering “ April fool, April fool ”. One considers himself to be wise according to how cleanly and cunningly he fools the other person. But this foolish person does not feel that what a major “mistake” he has committed. April fool can also be referred to as “ the international day of lying ”. Lying is a sin. You should not lie even as a joke.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: A person cannot be of perfect faith unless he abandons lying when joking and [abandons] quarrelling, even if he is right. (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 290, Hadees 8744)

At the time of April fool one expresses - joy over others’ distresses. Such people should fear that they can also fall prey to face the same circumstances. It is an Arabic saying: ‘ مَنْ ضَحِکَ ضُحِکَ ’ i.e. the one who laughs at others would also be laughed upon .

Fake news took one’s life

A 70-year old resident of Punjab, Pakistan, received the news that his brother had an accident in Okara and passed away. As he was on his way to Okara hospital, he fell on the ground and passed away due to having a cardiac arrest. It was later found out that some foolish person joked with him on the name of April fool. (Urdu Point, 1 st April 2008)

Alas! Despite having so many evils in April fool, some Muslims imitate non-Muslims and celebrate April fool as a festival on 1 st of April every year. Whereas, the people of past would get astonished if they heard a Muslim lying and would think that how can a Muslim - lie?

It is narrated: A person came in the court of the teacher of the renowned Mogul emperor Aurangzeb ‘Aalamgeer, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said: ‘Huzoor, your wife has become widow.’ Listening to it, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started thinking something in a state of extreme worry. Looking at his anxiousness, a person who was present there said: ‘Huzoor! You are worried for no reason. When you are alive, then how can your wife become widow?’ Upon this, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: ‘I am not thinking that how did my wife become a widow. I am worried while thinking whether a Muslim can also lie?’

First April is just round the corner. It is possible that someone has perhaps already made up a mind that this year, I will fool so and so person by telling him so and so lie. Let’s straightaway sincerely repent in the court of Allah Almighty from all our sins, especially lying.

War against lying will continue…

War against the Satan will continue… اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Lying is not a practice of Muslims. Therefore, try to adopt the habit of always speaking the truth. No matter how tough situation once faces in his life, no matter how severe a calamity one gets trapped in, but yet he shall never lie. Rather, always remain steadfast on speaking the truth as there are various virtues of speaking the truth. Those who speak truth in this world, Allah Almighty will bless them with innumerable rewards on the Day of Judgement. Allah Almighty states in part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 119:

هٰذَا یَوْمُ یَنْفَعُ الصّٰدِقِیْنَ صِدْقُهُمْؕ-لَهُمْ جَنّٰتٌ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ-رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُؕ-ذٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِیْمُ(۱۱۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘This (Qiyamah) is a Day on which the truthful will benefit from their truthfulness; for them are Gardens beneath which rivers flow, in which they will abide forever and ever. Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Allah; this is the greatest success.’

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: From this Ayah, we came to know that on the Day of Judgement, truthfulness would benefit - and lying and showing off would not be beneficial in any way. Therefore, a wise person should try his utmost to tread on the path of truthfulness; because after faith [Iman], adopting truthfulness inclines a person towards righteous deeds.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 2, pp. 467-468)

May Allah Almighty also grant us the blessings of truthfulness on the Day of Judgement. May Allah Almighty enable us to follow the true teachings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who always spoke the truth himself and also persuaded people to do so. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was so renowned as a true and honest person that the non-believers who were his bloodthirsty enemies, those who used to oppress him in different ways and despite wandering in the valley of Kufr and shirk, they were still highly impressed with the truthfulness and honesty of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only remained practically steadfast on truthfulness in the most testing times of his blessed life, but also persuaded us to become embodiments of truthfulness in the light of his blessed sayings. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in regards to the importance of truthfulness and its virtues:

1 One person came in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is the action which leads a person to Paradise?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Speaking the truth. When a person speaks the truth, he commits a righteous deed. And when he carries out a righteous deed, then he gets protection. And when he gets protected, then he enters in the Paradise.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

2 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Truthfulness indeed leads towards righteousness. And righteousness leads towards Paradise. And indeed, a person keeps speaking the truth to the extent that he gets inscribed in the court of Allah Almighty as the one speaking truth immensely. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

3 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Speak the truth even if you see destruction in it, because salvation lies only in it. (Makarim-ul-Akhlaq, pp. 111)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of sneezing from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Firstly, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes sneeze and does not like yawn. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2 When someone sneezes and says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’, angels say ‘ رَبُّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’ and if he [also] says ‘ رَبُّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’, the angels say: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3 When sneezing, lower your head, cover your face and sneeze in a low voice as it is foolishness to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

4 One should say ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’ after sneezing. (It is stated on page 3 of Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Muakkadah [emphasized] Sunnah to praise [Hamd of] Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon sneezing). It is better to say ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’ or ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ ’.

It is Wajib for the listener to say ‘ یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you) immediately in an audible voice so that the one who sneezed can hear. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 476)

5 Upon hearing ‘ یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ ’, the person who sneezed should say: ‘ یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَنَا وَلَـکُمْ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say: ‘ یَہْدِیْکُمُ اللّٰہُ وَ یُصْلِحُ بَالَـکُمْ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of sneezing will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّی اللہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 21 March 2019

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing

٭ Whoever says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ ’ after sneezing and passes his tongue over all his teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه he will be safe from the dental diseases. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

٭ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: Whosoever says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ ’ upon sneezing, he will never suffer from pain in the molars and earache.

(Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499)

٭ The reply [i.e. ‘ یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ ’] is Wajib on the first sneeze. If the one sneezing says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’ on the second sneeze as well, it is not Wajib to reply, rather it is Mustahab. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

٭ The reply is Wajib only when the one sneezing says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’; if he does not say ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’, there is no reply. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 477)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for the acceptance of worship

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a for the “ acceptance of worship ” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

رَبَّنَا تَقَبَّلْ مِنَّاؕ-اِنَّكَ اَنْتَ السَّمِیْعُ الْعَلِیْمُ(۱۲۷) رَبَّنَا وَ اجْعَلْنَا مُسْلِمَیْنِ لَكَ وَ مِنْ ذُرِّیَّتِنَاۤ اُمَّةً مُّسْلِمَةً لَّكَ ۪-وَ اَرِنَا مَنَاسِكَنَا وَ تُبْ عَلَیْنَاۚ-اِنَّكَ اَنْتَ التَّوَّابُ الرَّحِیْمُ(۱۲۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O our Lord, accept (this service) from us, undoubtedly, only You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing. O our Lord, make us subservient to You and raise from our offspring a nation obedient to You, teach us the ways of our worship, and turn Your Mercy towards us. Surely, only You are the Greatest Acceptor of repentance, the Most Merciful.’

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 127, 128; Faizan-e-Du’a, pp. 145)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

