اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Don’t Hurt Your Parents

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَـوَیْتُ سُنَّتَ الاعْتِکَاف

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ غَدًا رَاضِیا ً ، فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ Whoever likes this [thing] that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should

recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Al-Firdaus bima-Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Obeying parents

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, parents are a great blessing of Allah Almighty. Parents are a very big support in a person’s life. They are the ones who stand by a person in every affliction, problem, calamity, difficulty, and grief one may face. Allah Almighty blessed parents with a very exalted rank and status. You can get a gist of the rank, status, dignity and grandeur of parents from the fact that in the Holy Quran, Allah Almighty commanded to treat parents nicely after commanding to worship Him. Therefore, Allah Almighty states in part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayahs 23 to 25:

وَ قَضٰى رَبُّكَ اَلَّا تَعْبُدُوْۤا اِلَّاۤ اِیَّاهُ وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًاؕ-اِمَّا یَبْلُغَنَّ عِنْدَكَ الْكِبَرَ اَحَدُهُمَاۤ اَوْ كِلٰهُمَا فَلَا تَقُلْ لَّهُمَاۤ اُفٍّ وَّ لَا تَنْهَرْهُمَا وَ قُلْ لَّهُمَا قَوْلًا كَرِیْمًا(۲۳) وَ اخْفِضْ لَهُمَا جَنَاحَ الذُّلِّ مِنَ الرَّحْمَةِ وَ قُلْ رَّبِّ ارْحَمْهُمَا كَمَا رَبَّیٰنِیْ صَغِیْرًاؕ(۲۴) رَبُّكُمْ اَعْلَمُ بِمَا فِیْ نُفُوْسِكُمْؕ-اِنْ تَكُوْنُوْا صٰلِحِیْنَ فَاِنَّهٗ كَانَ لِلْاَوَّابِیْنَ غَفُوْرًا(۲۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And your Lord has commanded that do not worship anyone except Him, and treat parents with goodness; if one of them or both reach old age in front of you, so do not say (even) ‘Ugh’ to them and do not scold them, and speak to them words of respect. And spread for them the arm of humbleness with a soft heart, and request humbly that, ‘O my Lord! Have mercy on them both, just as they brought me up in my childhood.’ Your Lord is Well Aware of what is in your hearts. If you are righteous, then indeed He is Forgiving to those who repent.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states in relation to the aforementioned Ayahs: When parents become weak, their body parts are left with no power in them, and they are left weak with you in their last days the way you were powerless with them in your infancy; so do not utter any such thing from your tongue that would express them being a burden on you. Neither scold them nor speak loudly to them. Rather, speak to them with such great manners the

way a servant and a slave speaks to his master. Treat them gently and politely. Treat them with compassion and affection even when you are tired as they brought you up with affection at the time when you were powerless. Moreover, do not be stingy in buying them what they need. To cut the long story short, no matter how much we exaggerate in treating parents nicely and serving them in this world, we can never pay back the favour of our parents. Hence, a person should supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty for grace and mercy to be showered upon them and he should humbly implore that O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My serving them cannot be a payback to their favour. Please shower mercy upon them so that their favour may get repaid.

Allah Almighty says in part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 83:

وَ اِذْ اَخَذْنَا مِیْثَاقَ بَنِیْۤ اِسْرَآءِیْلَ لَا تَعْبُدُوْنَ اِلَّا اللّٰهَ  وَ بِالْوَالِدَیْنِ اِحْسَانًا

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when We took a covenant from the Children of Israel; that worship no one but Allah, and be good to parents.

(Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 83)

Under this Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: After commanding to worship Him, Allah Almighty commanded to treat parents nicely. From this, we find out that serving parents is extremely important. Treating parents nicely means that one shall not utter or do any such thing that would hurt them. He shall not deny serving them physically and financially. He shall be there when they need him. If parents command him to leave Nawafil in order to serve them, then he shall leave Nawafil because serving them is superior to Nawafil. However, Fard and Wajib acts cannot be left upon the command of parents. Ways of treating parents nicely proven from Ahadees are as follows:

٭ One shall love them from the bottom of his heart.

٭ He shall speak respectful words to dignify them.

٭ He shall keep striving to please them.

٭ He shall not keep the best of his possessions away from them.

٭ He shall fulfil their wills after their demise.

٭ He shall perform Isal-e-Sawab [convey reward] through reciting Fatihah, giving Sadaqat [charity], and reciting the Glorious Quran.

٭ He shall supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty for their forgiveness.

٭ He shall visit their graves every week.

٭ Another fact that is counted as treating parents nicely is that if they are indulged in sins or any sort of heresy, then one shall keep making the efforts of bringing them towards the right beliefs with politeness. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 28)

Dear Islamic brothers! These blessed Ayahs highlight the dignity, grandeur, rank and status of parents. Therefore, we shall appreciate our parents, remember their favours, avoid such things that would displease them, look after them in every way, treat them nicely, fulfil their permissible needs, and fulfil every permissible command of theirs. We shall look after them especially when they get old; because at that time, they are in need of most sympathy from their children because at that age, they don’t have strength in their body parts. They get afflicted with so many diseases and at such times, even their own blood relatives become strangers. The old age of parents puts a person into test and trial.

At times, parents get ill with various types of diseases in the old age. Due to this, children normally get fed up. However, remember! Serving parents in even such circumstances is mandatory. Therefore, no matter how irritable parents become due to their old age and diseases, no matter how much they argue and quarrel without any reason and stress you out, still you need to observe only patience and it is mandatory to respect and dignify them. Yes! This is the test. Let alone being rude to them or scolding them off etc., one shall not even say ‘ uff ’ in front of them. Otherwise, one can suffer a loss and become deserving of destruction in both worlds. As the one who hurts his parents’ feelings gets humiliated in this world as well as becomes deserving of the punishment in the Hereafter.

No obedience in the matters against the Shari’ah

If parents command you to perform something that is against the Shari’ah, such as shave your beard etc., then, in this case, Shari’ah has forbidden you to fulfil their command because it is not permissible to disobey Allah Almighty in order to obey creation. Allah Almighty states in part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 8:

وَ وَصَّیْنَا الْاِنْسَانَ بِوَالِدَیْهِ حُسْنًاؕ-وَ اِنْ جَاهَدٰكَ لِتُشْرِكَ بِیْ مَا لَیْسَ لَكَ بِهٖ عِلْمٌ فَلَا تُطِعْهُمَاؕ-اِلَیَّ مَرْجِعُكُمْ فَاُنَبِّئُكُمْ بِمَا كُنْتُمْ تَعْمَلُوْنَ(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have emphasised upon man to show kindness towards his parents, and if they strive to make you ascribe a partner with Me about which you do not have any knowledge, then do not obey them. Only towards Me is your return so I will inform you of what you used to do. (Part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 8)

While mentioning the Shan-e-Nuzool of the revelation of this blessed Ayah, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: This Ayah was revealed for Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . His mother was Hamnah Bint Abi Sufyan Bin Umayyah Bin ‘Abd-e-Shams. Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to treat his parents very nicely. When he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam, his mother said: ‘What new thing have you done? By God! If you do not let it go, then I will neither eat nor drink, to the extent that I will die and you will remain humiliated forever and will be called the murderer of your mother.’

Then the old woman bore starvation. For one day, she did not eat, neither did she drink and nor did she sit in shade. Due to this, she became weak. Then she spent another day and night in the same very state. Then (Sayyiduna) Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to her and said: ‘O mother! Even you have a hundred lives and every single life ends one by one, I will still not leave my religion. It is up to you whether you eat or not.’ When she became disappointed from (Sayyiduna) Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that he will not abandon his

religion, then she started to eat and drink. Upon this, Allah Almighty revealed this Ayah and commanded to treat parents nicely and if they command you to commit Kufr [disbelief] and shirk [polytheism], then it shall not be obeyed. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 735; summarised)

What shall children do if parents fight with each other?

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: If parents have a fight, then one shall neither be on the side of the mother nor on the side of the father. It shall not be the case that out of the love for mother, one treats his father harshly. Hurting father’s feelings, answering him rudely, or talking to him disrespectfully by staring into his eyes are all Haraam acts and disobedience to Allah Almighty. It is not permissible at all for children to be on the side of one of the parent. Both of them are his Paradise and Hell. Whoever he hurts, he will be deserving of the hellfire. وَالْعِیَاذُ بِاللّٰہ (I seek Allah’s refuge).

Obeying someone in disobeying Allah Almighty is not permissible. For example, mother wants son to harm his father in any way. And in case the son does not agree to do so, i.e. he does not agree to be harsh to the father, then she gets displeased. Then he shall let his mother get displeased and not listen to her in this matter at all. Similarly, he shall not listen to his father if he wants him to do the same for his mother. How Islamic scholars have divided this is that the mother has priority in being served whereas dignity lies more for father as he is the master of even his mother. (Samundari Gumbad, pp. 21)

What if parents command to disobey Allah Almighty?

We come to know that if parents command to do something impermissible, then do not listen to them. If you obey them in impermissible things, then you will become a sinner. For example, parents instruct you to lie or leave Salah, then do not listen to them at all in these matters. No matter how displeased they get, you will not be considered to be disobedient. However, if you do listen to them, then you will definitely be disobedient to Allah Almighty. Similarly, if parents get divorced and mother insists so much and commands her children not to meet their father, then the children shall not

obey this command. The children will have to meet the father as well as serve him; as, although the parents have been separated but the relationship with children remains as it was before. The rights of parents are still binding upon the children.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed Ahadees in relation to treating parents nicely

Dear Islamic brothers! The way we have been emphasized in the Quranic Ayahs to treat our parents nicely, similarly, we have also been commanded in the blessed Ahadees to be kind to our parents and revere them. Therefore, we shall try our utmost to please our parents as the pleasure of Allah Almighty lies in their pleasure and the displeasure of Allah Almighty lies in their displeasure.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Pleasure of Allah Almighty lies in the pleasure of parents and displeasure of Allah Almighty lies in the displeasure of parents. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 177, Hadees 7830)

Sayyiduna Abu Umamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that a person humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What right do parents have upon their children?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: (هُمَا جَنَّتُكَ وَ نَارُكَ) i.e. they both are your Paradise and Hell (i.e. you will attain Paradise by pleasing them and become deserving of Hell if you displease them). (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 553; Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 186, Hadees 3662)

Paradise under the feet of mother

Sayyiduna Jaahimah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I want to fight in the path of Allah Almighty and have come in your court to consult with you.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Do you have a mother?’ He replied ‘Yes.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ فَالْزَمْهَا فَاِنَّ الْجَنَّةَ تَحْتَ رِجْلَيْهَا ’ i.e. make serving her obligatory upon yourself because Paradise lies under her feet. (Nasa’ee, pp. 504, Hadees 3101)

Dear Islamic brothers! Du’as of parents are accepted in the favour of children. Keep them happy. Serve them immensely and get their Du’as. Their pleasure can be a means of protection of your faith and their displeasure can be a means of destruction of your faith. One who obeys parents always remains happy and prosperous. Wherever he may be in the world, he obtains the blessings of the Du’as of his parents.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه mentions on page 6 to 7 of his booklet “ Oceanic Dome ”: Look at your parents with great sympathy and affection. How nice it is to look at parents with a merciful gaze! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When offspring look at their parents with a merciful gaze, Allah Almighty writes the reward of Hajj Mabroor (accepted Hajj) for every (such) sight.’ The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم asked, ‘Even if someone looks at them hundred times a day?’ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ نَعَمْ، اَللّٰہُ اَکْبَرُ وَاَطْیَبُ ’ yes, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the Greatest and the Atyab (the Purest).’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 186, Hadees 7856)

Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty has power over everything. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ can bestow as much reward as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is not helpless or powerless at all. So if someone looks at his parents with a merciful gaze one thousand times a day let alone hundred; He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant him the reward of one thousand accepted Hajj.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Rights of parents cannot be repaid

Honestly speaking, there are loads of rights of parents and one cannot fulfil them duly. Therefore, one companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘There were such scorching stones on a path that if a piece of meat was placed over them, it would get cooked. I carried my mother on my shoulders and walked over them for six miles. Have I been free from the rights of my mother?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

replied: ‘The pain of contractions she went through while giving you birth, it perhaps would be the expiation for one of those contractions.’ (Al-Mu’jam-us-Sagheer, pp. 92, Hadees 257)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Parents always think good of their children. They want to do a lot for their beloved offspring but at times, their circumstances do not allow them to do so. Someone’s old father would still be working as labour instead of resting in order to earn a livelihood for his house. The mother, despite facing various illnesses, still cannot afford her medicine but sacrifices her rest and helps the father by sewing clothes until late night so that the basic necessities of the house can be fulfilled.

Dear Islamic brothers! What has happened to us? Which way are we heading towards? Misuse of social media has completely changed our thinking process. Respect and honour of parents is diminishing away from our hearts. Woe on such friendships and gatherings that distance us away from the feet of our parents and throw us in the pile of the filth of the society. Now hold onto your hearts and listen to some admonitory accounts of the consequences of those who disobeyed their parents.

Punishment for disobeying mother

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Abu Awfa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: A person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘A young man is facing the time of his death. He has been persuaded to recite the Kalimah but he is unable to do so.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Did he not use to recite the Kalimah during his lifetime?’ People humbly said: ‘Why not. He definitely used to.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Then what has stopped him from reciting the Kalimah at the time of his death?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to that young man and said: ‘Young man! Say ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’.’ He humbly said: ‘I am unable to say this.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Why?’ He humbly said: ‘I was

disobedient to my mother.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked: ‘Is your mother alive?’ He humbly said: ‘Yes’.

(Therefore, his mother was brought in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to her: ‘Is he your son?’ She humbly said: ‘Yes.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘If a huge fire was lit and you were told that if you don’t get pleased with him, then this young man will be thrown into it. Then what would you do?’ She humbly said: ‘Then I will forgive him.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Then make Allah Almighty and us your witness and say that you are pleased with him.’ She humbly said: ‘I am pleased with my son.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to that young man: ‘Say ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’. He said ‘ لَا اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللہُ ’. Upon this, the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم glorified Allah Almighty in the following words: ‘ اَلْحَمْدُلِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ اَنْقَذَهُ بِیْ مِنَ النَّارِ ’ i.e. all praise is for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who saved him from fire for my sake. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 197, Hadees 7892)

May Allah Almighty also enable us to recite the blessed Kalimah at the time of our death.

Dreadful end of the one who used to beat his mother to please his wife

A young man’s kidneys stopped functioning. He was admitted into the hospital. His state was extremely bad. The process of his soul leaving his body started. Terrifying voices would be heard from his mouth and nose. The face would turn blue and the eyes would pop out. Two days passed in this very state. These terrifying voices turned into frightening screams. Patients of the ward started to run away. Therefore, he was shifted from that ward into another room that was at some distance from that ward. His father asked the doctor: ‘Give him a poisonous injection so that he may die. We cannot bear to see this state of his.’ When asked that what is the reason behind this terrible state of his? The father replied: ‘He used to beat his mother in order to please his wife and I used to stop him. It seems as if he is getting punished for it.’ Ah! Three days later, he passed away in the same very state.

It is the revenge of the same very action

Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: A person was beating his father at a place. People reproached him saying that ‘O unfortunate! What is this?’ Upon this, the father said: ‘Leave him because I also used to beat my father at the same very place. That’s why my son is also beating me at this very place. This is the revenge of the same very action. Do not reproach him.’ (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 69)

Dear Islamic brothers! We repent in the court of Allah Almighty and seek refuge in Him. Ah! How severe humiliation and dreadful punishment does hurting the feelings of parents lead to. We shall take a lot of care for our parents. When they call us, we should not delay replying to them without a lawful reason. Generally, people are heedless in this regard and do not even مَعَاذَ اللّٰہ consider delaying the reply to be anything bad.

Remember! Breaking your Salah just upon the call of your parents or grandparents is not permissible. However, if they are calling due to severe trouble, then one shall break his Salah. This ruling is for Fard Salah. If one is offering Nafl Salah and parents are aware of it, then one shall not break his Salah if they call him for something small. However, if parents are not aware of him offering (Nafl) Salah and then they call him, then he shall break his Salah and reply to them even if it is for something really small. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 638) (It is Wajib to offer that Nafl Salah again).

Those who hurt the feelings of their parents by ignoring them for nothing when they call them, become grave sinners and deserving of the punishment of [Hell] fire. Mother is a mother at the end of the day. At times, she can also unintentionally curse her children and if it is the moment of acceptance of Du’a, then children may face trial. Therefore, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: There was a person called Jurayj in Bani Israeel. He was offering Salah. His mother came and called him but he did not reply. He said: ‘Shall I offer Salah or reply to her?’ Then his mother came (and cursed him when she did not get a reply) ‘O Allah Almighty! Do not give him death until he sees the face of an adulteress’. Jurayj was one day at the place of worship. One woman said that I will seduce him. Therefore, she came to Jurayj and started talking to him but he (i.e. Jurayj) refused. Finally, she went to a shepherd and

handed herself over to him. Therefore, she gave birth to a child and associated him towards Jurayj. People came to Jurayj, demolished his place of worship, kicked him out and reproached him severely. Jurayj performed Wudu and offered Salah. Then he came to that child and said: ‘O child! Who is your father?’ The child replied: ‘So and so shepherd.’ Upon this, people said to Jurayj: ‘We will build you a place of worship made of gold.’ He replied ‘No, build it of clay as it was before.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 139, Hadees 2482)

“Madani Dars”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that a person displeasing his mother is made to face trials in this world. Therefore, we shall try to refrain from disobeying our parents, respect them wholeheartedly and strive our utmost to keep them pleased. In order to develop this Madani mindset, we shall associate ourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and practically take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah.

Out of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah, one Madani activity of daily basis is also “Madani Dars”. This is one of the best ways of learning and teaching the knowledge of Deen. Madani Dars means that except for a few booklets and books, delivering Dars from the books and booklets of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, especially from ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ volume one and the following chapters of ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ volume two (1) Backbiting – A Cancer in Our Society and (2) Call to Righteousness in Masjid, busy square, market, shop, office and home etc., is called as ‘Madani Dars’ under the organisational terminology.

٭ Madani Dars is a very beautiful Madani activity as due to its blessings, one attains the privilege of visiting the Masjid frequently.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, Sunnahs of meeting and saying Salam prevails among Muslims.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, one can impart the precious Madani pearls filled with Islamic knowledge from the books and booklets

of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه on different topics to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Madani Dars is extremely useful in making non-Salah offering people punctual in Salah.

٭ Besides Masjid, if Madani Dars is also delivered at the busy square, market, shop, etc., then the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami will also get publicised and acclaimed over there too.

For persuasion, let us listen to a Madani parable regarding “Madani Dars”:

Attained salvation from bad company

The character of an Islamic brother of Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore, Pakistan) had become so worse due to a bad company that neither did he have any compassion towards the children nor did he care about respecting and revering the elders. He had developed the habit of arguing and quarrelling upon everything. To the extent that even his own family members had become fed up of him due to his bad habits. One day, he was blessed with the privilege of attending the Dars of ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’. Thereafter, he started attending the Dars regularly. This way, due to the blessings of the ‘Madani Dars’, he repented of his sinful life, abandoned his evil company and associated himself with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Generally, every father desires eagerly that “my children remain obedient to me. They treat me nicely. They become righteous, pious and Allah-fearing. They have a respectful and noble character in the society.” But most of the time results are contrary to this. Why? Because the father who is unaware of the basic Islamic principles of bringing children up, non-practicing individual and deprived of the blessings of the good environment himself, how would he be able to bring his children up nicely? Perhaps, this is

the very reason that the standards for bringing up children have become such that if the child does not do any work, takes a day off from school or observes laziness in this matter, if he does not agree to go to a certain function or wear a specific dress or shoes, or gives some reasoning not to do some worldly activity, then parents really take its notice. He is severely scolded over it. He is shouted at for hours for it. At the same time, if the same child misses his Salah or does not offer Salah with Jama’at, takes a day off from Madrasah or Jami’ah or goes there late, wanders around the whole night, establishes unlawful relationships with non-Mahrams through mobile and social media, misuses his mobile phone or internet, falls prey to sinful love, watches films and dramas, listens to songs and music, adopts new and latest fashions, does not care about Halal and Haraam, consumes alcohol, gambles, lies, backbites, gives and takes bribery, adopts impermissible fashions, sits in the company of people with corrupt beliefs, wastes money in useless activities, in short, he is indulged in various types of evils, then let alone talking about them, the father does not even bother over them. It is also commonly observed that even if someone reforms them, then the father says: ‘ He is still a child’, ‘he is naïve’, ‘he will gradually understand’, ‘you shall not be that harsh on the kids either’, etc.

The same child who is deprived of an Islamic upbringing, given extra love and leniency by the parents, when he becomes a means of disgrace for the father, family and the society, then he stares in the eyes of the father if he scolds him or does not give him money, shouts at the father or even beats up the father. Then at that time, the father recalls the pieces of advice given to him by his well-wishers. Now the father grieves over his child’s reformation, makes Du’as and gets others to make Du’as but all this goes in vain. It’s too late by then and he can do nothing except regret. Just due to slight carelessness of parents, a precious pearl gets wasted.

Let us listen to two admonitory parables regarding what a father faces due to not providing Madani upbringing to children and giving them too much love and leniency. Moreover, make the intention of providing your children with an Islamic upbringing.

Harm of not providing Islamic upbringing to children

A person said to his father: You wasted me in my childhood (by not providing me with an Islamic upbringing). Now I will waste you in your old age. (Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 1, pp. 292, Taht-al-Hadees, 311)

Although it was not right at all for him to say this to his father, but the father needs to contemplate over it.

When the childless person was blessed with offspring

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه writes in his book ‘ Call to Righteousness ’: A rich person did not have children. He strived immensely for it was unsuccessful. Someone suggested him that go to Makkah Mukarramah and make Du’a in Masjid-ul-Haraam by Maqaam-e-Ibraheem. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ your wish will come true.

So he did the same and Allah Almighty blessed him with a very cute son. He brought him up very affectionately. The only child received too much love over the need and was not provided with the right upbringing. Due to this, he started wandering around and became extravagant. The father realised it very late. He stopped giving money to his spoiled son. Due to this, he became against his father. The same very place where his father made Du’a for him, he also went there, i.e. to Makkah Mukarramah, and this unworthy son started making Du’as for the demise of his own father so that he gets the wealth of his father as heritage upon his death. (Nayki ki Da’wat, pp. 577)

Majlis “Al-Madinah Library”

Dear Islamic brothers! We have come to know that being heedless from providing the correct Islamic upbringing to children can make a father face disgrace and remorse. Therefore, wake up from the sleep of heedlessness. We shall learn the principles of bringing children up. Do not ignore Shar’i rulings in the matter of children. Make your children obedient and true slaves of Allah Almighty and Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We shall keep trying to adopt Sunnahs in our character. In order to develop this Madani mind-set,

associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and engage yourselves in serving Sunnahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is spreading the message of Islam all across the world in more or less 105 different departments. Out of those departments, one department is ‘Majlis Al-Madinah Library’. Under this department, an Islamic library is established in the Madani Marakiz Faizan-e-Madinah (at any place other than ‘Ayn-e-Masjid) named ‘Al-Madinah Library’. In this library, a pleasant environment is provided to study in specific timings and computers are provided to watch Madani Channel or listen to the audio or video speeches and Madani Muzakarahs.

In ‘Al-Madinah Library’, consists of books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah on different topics. May Allah Almighty bless the ‘Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah’ with further progression.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of keeping Sunnah-conforming hairstyle

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of Sunnah- conforming hairstyle from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e- Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ The Zulfayn [hairstyle] of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would sometimes be to the half of the blessed ears, sometimes, to the blessed earlobes and sometimes, would reach the blessed shoulders. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 34, 35, 18)

٭ A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: It is not permissible for a man to have long hair like women. Some so called Sufis [mystic] keep extremely long hair which hang on their chest like a

snake, and some of them braid their hair similar to women. This is all impermissible and against the Shari’ah. (Bahar-e Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 587)

٭ It is Sunnah to part the hair in the middle of the head. It is stated on page 587, volume 3, part: 16 of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Some people part their hair in the left or right side which is against Sunnah.

٭ If one has hair on head, the Sunnah is to make centre parting. (Bahar-e Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 587)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of Sunnah-conforming hairstyle will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 27 December 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of keeping Sunnah-conforming hairstyle

٭ Nowadays, hair are cut in particular style, using scissors or machines, making some part of hair long and some part of it short. It is not Sunnah to have such hairstyle.

٭ It is a Bid’ah [innovation] to shave or pluck hair from the area between the bottom lip and the chin. (Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 358)

٭ One should not sleep with henna applied to the beard or hair. According to a Hakeem [herbalist], sleeping after applying henna in this way may cause side effect on eyes, this is detrimental to the eyesight.

٭ The whiteness of the hair of moustache, the bottom lip, and the edges of the beard of those people who apply henna becomes apparent after only a few days and this does not look nice. Therefore, if you cannot repeatedly colour the entire beard, then after every four days, at least try to apply a small amount of henna to the parts where the whiteness becomes apparent.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a when looking in a mirror

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a when looking in a mirror ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ حَسَّنْتَ خَلْقِیْ فَحَسِّنْ خُلُقِیْ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ You have made my physical appearance good looking; also make my character good.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 339, Hadees 24446)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

