اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Curse of Bad Company

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَوْلَی النَّاسِ بِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ اَکْثَرُہُمْ عَلَیَّ صَلَاۃً ’ The person, who would have been reciting the most Salat upon me, will be the closest to me amongst the people on the Day of Judgement.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 27, Hadees 484)

حشر میں کیا کیا مزے وار فتگی کے لُوں رَضا

لوٹ جاؤں پا کے وہ دامانِ عالی ہاتھ میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Consequence of bad companionship

In his great book ‘Nayki ki dawat’ (Call to Righteousness), on page 290 (Urdu version), Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziya’ee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has said: Once, in Punjab (Pakistan), a strange bad-smell was felt in a neighbourhood. After a long struggle, the locals were able to find a locked house from where the smell was coming. Police was informed of it. After the police broke the lock in the presence of people and entered the house, everyone was frightened to see that the corpse of a young man was lying on a charpoy (bedstead). Some of his body parts had decomposed and insects were crawling in them. Seeing it, many people including children passed out [i.e. became unconscious]. After the investigation, it was found that the young man was a labourer and was living in the house on rent. He had friendship with some gamblers. One day, the young man won a lot of money in gambling from his friends. In order to snatch the money they had gambled away [i.e. lost], the losing friends fastened a noose around his neck and murdered him by repeatedly giving him electric shocks. They then locked the house and ran away, leaving him un-shrouded and unburied.

اے جُواری تُو جُوئے سے باز آ ورنہ پھنس جائے گا جس دن تُو مرا

تُو نشے سے باز آ مت پی شراب دو جہاں ہوجا ئیں گے ورنہ خراب

ہو گیا تجھ سے خدا ناراض اگر قبر سُن لے آگ سے جائیگی بھر

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear! How destructive is it to spend time in bad company and how horrible death is for the one who has a bad company! Undoubtedly, bad company destroys a person completely. Having the company of bad people means one is inviting evils, curses and troubles. Sometimes these bad friends become the enemy of their friends for their own benefits and kill them with great torture. In this way, those who enjoy the company of bad friends become a sign of admonition for others. We have just heard an admonitory parable of the one who used to enjoy the company of bad friends. We should keep away from the company of bad friends, especially the bad company of gamblers as those who are in the bad habit of gambling not only lose all of their income for which they work hard, but they also suffer many other losses.

Worldly disadvantages of gambling

It is stated on page 24, volume 3, of Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan, published by Maktaba tul Madinah:

1. Due to gambling, gamblers breed malice, hatred and enmity towards one another and sometimes they murder one another.

2. Due to gambling, a rich person becomes poor in a moment. A prosperous family is left destitute. A well-to-do person becomes penniless. He loses his status and reputation and there is no value and respect for him in the society.

A gambler is compelled to borrow money abundantly and sometimes he takes a loan on interest as well and when he is unable to pay back his loan or he is not given any loan so he starts committing robbery, theft, etc. A gambler suffers from troubles in a way that he is impelled to commit suicide. (Sirat-ul-Jinnan, vol. 3, pp. 24)

Let’s listen to 2 sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the condemnation of gambling and seek admonition.

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who plays Nardshir (a game similar to backgammon), as though he has dipped his hand in the meat and blood of a pig. (Muslim, pp. 955, Hadees 2260)

2. The person who plays Nardshir, then gets up to offer Salah, he is like the person who stands up to offer Salah after making Wudu with the pus and blood of a pig. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 50, Hadees 23199)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to keep away from gambling and gamblers and also enable us to spend our life in performing virtuous deeds by having the company of good people!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a famous saying that “company makes the man”. Similarly, the company whether good or bad will eventually have its effect. The fortunate person, who is blessed with good company, has a stroke of fortune because by virtue of the blessing of good company he also develops good habits and gets rid of bad habits. He attains the passion for practicing (good deeds) and a great status in the society. But unfortunately if somebody has bad company, it means his bad time has started as the effects of bad company are very destructive. Bad company brings about the downfall of a righteous and simple person from his rise. Bad friends play a role in increasing evils and ruining the society. Those who spend their time with them, become like them sooner or later and bring about troubles in the society.

Who should be befriended and who shouldn’t?

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Do not involve in such thing which is not useful for you and stay away from your enemy and avoid your friend, but if he is trustworthy as there is no one equal to the one who is trustworthy and do not be with the sinner as he will teach you sins and do not talk about your secret in front of him and seek advice from those for your work, who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 257, Hadees 4995)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Maula Ali Mushkil Kusha رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Do not befriend a transgressor because he will decorate his act for you and will want you to be like him and will show his worst habit to be good. His visit to you is a defect and do not have brotherhood with a fool as he will put himself in trouble, but will give you no benefit. And maybe sometimes he will want to benefit you, but will harm you. His silence is better than speaking; his distance is better than nearness and his death is better than life. Do not have brotherhood with a liar either because sociability with him will not benefit you; he will convey to others whatever you have said to him and will bring to you what others have said to him and if you speak the truth, even then he will not speak the truth. (Tareekh-e-Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 42, pp. 516)

Sayyiduna Ja’far Bin Sulayman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: [Once] I saw a dog walking behind Sayyiduna Malik Bin Dinar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, I asked: O Abu Yahya! Is it with

you? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: This (dog) is better than a bad companion. (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 192, Hadees 641)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how destructive is bad friend for the world and the Hereafter both! Therefore it is better that we keep away from the company of bad people lest people should talk about us deceptively and also call us by bad titles due to having the company of bad friends. Let’s listen to 4 sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the condemnation of bad company, in order to stay safe from its destruction and seek Madani pearls of advice from them.

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Avoid bad friend because he is a piece of Hell. His love will not benefit you and he will not keep his promise with you. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 224, Hadees 1573)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Avoid a bad companion because you will be recognized through him. (Tareekh-e-Ibn-e-‘Asakir, vol. 14, pp. 46)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When you get up in the morning be either an Islamic scholar or student or the one who listens to an Islamic scholar or loves an Islamic scholar, but do not be the fifth one because you will be destroyed. (Kashf-ul-Khufa, vol. 1, pp. 134, Hadees 437)

4. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘The example of a good and bad companion is like that of a musk-carrying person and the one blowing into a furnace. The musk-carrying person will either give musk free of cost or you will buy from him or at least you will have fragrance from him. Whereas the one blowing into the furnace will either burn your clothes or you will have foul smell from him.’ (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 20, Hadees 2101)

Explaining the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ how beautiful example it is through which it has been advised that the company of bad people can never benefit and the company of good people can never harm anyone. Musk cannot be obtained from the furnace-blowing person, but rather one can get only smoke. Neither can one get heat nor smoke from the musk-carrying person, but rather he

will either get musk or fragrance. (Explaining the part of the blessed Hadees that says: ‘The musk-carrying person will either give musk free of cost or you will buy from him or at least you will smell fragrance from him.’ Mufti Sahib has said:) This covers a minor benefit. The major benefit is to buy musk or his giving musk free of cost which will keep on benefitting him and smelling fragrance only is a minor benefit. (Explaining the part of the blessed Hadees that says: ‘The second one will either burn your clothes or you will have foul smell from him’ Mufti Sahib has explained:) The purpose of this great saying is that one should avoid bad company as far as possible because it destroys the world and the Hereafter both. And avail good company as it makes our world and the Hereafter both better. The company of a snake takes one’s life, whereas the company of a bad friend destroys the faith. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 591)

Bad company, cause of destroying faith

Shaykh ‘Allamah Muhammad Bin Ahmad Zahabi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘A man used to remain in the company of alcoholics. When he was on his deathbed, someone persuaded him to recite Kalimah by reminding him but he replied, ‘You drink and give me some too.’ مَـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he died without reciting Kalimah. [Imagine, this is the terrible state of just having the company of drinkers, so what would be the curse for those who drink themselves!] A chess player who was close to his death was advised to recite Kalimah, but he said, ‘Your king!’, and then passed away. (Kitab-ul-Kaba’ir, pp. 103)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that good company is highly beneficial, whereas bad company bears potential loss of the world and the Hereafter both. Bad company also destroys the faith of a person. People usually are afraid of deadly, dangerous and poisonous animals, insects and horrible things and succeed in staying safe from them and do not even pass near the dangerous places, but alas, it is considered to be extremely difficult to get rid of the destructive company. Ah! The curse of bad company has spread in a way that we do not take interest in worship. People take steps in their everyday life only after thinking long and hard considering their benefits, but do not take even a little care in having someone’s company whether it will prove beneficial for them or not. Anyhow think long and hard

before you make a friend so that you may have no regrets about anything. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ ا َ لْمَرْءُ عَلَى دِينِ خَلِيْلِهِ فَلْيَنْظُرْ اَحَدُكُمْ مَنْ يُخَالِطُ ’ A person follows the religion of his friend; he should see who he befriends. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 168, Hadees 8034)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Before befriending a person test him whether he obeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم or not. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

وَ كُوْنُوْا مَعَ الصّٰدِقِیْنَ(۱۱۹)

And be with the truthful

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)](Parah 11, Surah At-Tawbah, Ayah 119)

Pious Sufis رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said that human nature has the quality of deriving i.e. taking. By the company of a greedy person, greed will be attained and by the company of a pious person, piety will be attained. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 6, pp. 599)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should not blindly trust anyone regarding friendship, and nor should we have the company of those who are already indulged in evils because when the trouble befalls on a person who commits many types of evils, sometimes even those who are acquainted with him also have to face troubles. Let’s listen to a parable in order to understand it.

Friendship of rat and frog

In his great book ‘Nayki ki Dawat’ (Call towards Righteousness), on page 381 (Urdu version), Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has stated: Describing the harmful effects of a bad company, ‘Arif-Billah, Maulana Room رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated: At a river bank, a rat and a frog met each other and became friends . The rat said, ‘If I want to meet you, how will I inform you about it? You live under the depth of water where voice cannot reach.’ It was finally decided that one end of a piece of thread be tied to a leg of the rat while its other end to a leg of the frog so that both of them could inform each other when necessary. Therefore, they did the same. One day, all of a sudden, a crow pounced on the rat, caught it in its beak and flew away. The frog tied with the

thread was also being pulled in the air. The frog said, ‘This is the punishment of friendship with a stupid like a rat.’ It shows that the company of stupid and wicked people causes a lot of troubles.

اے فُغاں از یارِ ناجِس اے فُغاں ہَمنَشینِ نیک جُوئید اے مِہاں

Translation: I seek refuge from the stupid friend. O my friends! Look for pious companions. (Masnawi, pp. 266, 267, 285, amended)

Company of corrupt-belief people is deadly poison

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that the company of unwise people brings about great loss, and sometimes their evil influence ruins others as well. Remember, the way having the company of those who are involved in drinking, gambling and committing sins brings about destruction, similarly, meeting people of corrupt belief, listening to their speeches, reading their books, having meals with them or establishing relationship with them are also deadly poison for faith and bring about great destruction in the world and the Hereafter. Alas! At present, some unwise people establish relations with people of corrupt belief and say: No one can jolt us; we are very strong; we have established ties with them so that we can make them like us. Similarly, some unwise people marry women of corrupt belief for satisfying their Nafs and say like this: We have married them in order to make them like us. Similarly, there are some unwise families who hand their beloved children to the teachers of corrupt belief only for the sake of good worldly education and finally the same children’s belief become corrupt when they grow up. Such people learn an admonitory lesson from the sayings of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The company of the people of corrupt belief is a fire. The beliefs of educated, sensible and matured men have also been corrupted in it. The story of Imran bin Hattan Raqqashi is very famous. He was a great Muhaddis in the era of Tabain. He himself became deviant after marrying and spending time with a corrupt- belief woman. He claimed that he wanted to convert her to Sunni after marrying her. When this is the state of the company (that such a great Muhaddis lost his belief) so how terrible is it to make a man of corrupt belief the teacher who exerts enormous and immediate influence on his students. So the

person who does not have any concern with his religion, and nor does he care for the loss of belief of his children, will make a man or woman of corrupt belief the teacher of his children. (Sirat-ul-Jinnan, vol. 7, pp. 20)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! On page 134, vol. 3 of Tafseer Sirat-ul-Jinnan, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah it is stated: To go to the gathering of corrupt-belief people and to listen to their speeches are impermissible and Haraam and is an act of making yourself a person of corrupt belief and misguidance. No matter whether their speeches consist of Quranic Ayahs, blessed Ahadees, good pieces of advice it is not permissible at all to listen to them even with the presumption of listening to something good.

At times, it happens that a person of corrupt belief includes something of his corrupt belief in his speech under the pretence of the commentary and explanation of the Holy Quran and Hadees and then with this inclusion there lies a strong possibility of entering such things in the mind of those who listen to their speeches. That’s why the one who listens to the conversation and speech of a deviant and corrupt-belief person usually goes astray. Our pious predecessors used to be very cautious about their faith. Despite being very strong about their beliefs they did not like to listen to anyone with corrupt belief, even if the person of corrupt belief ensures it many times that he would only mention the Holy Quran [Ayahs from the Holy Quran] and blessed Ahadees.

Did not listen to even half word

Narrating the act of pious predecessors A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Jabeer, who was the student of Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا, met a deviant on the way. The deviant said: I would like to say something. Sayyiduna Sa’eed bin Jabeer رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I do not want to listen. He humbly said: Only a single sentence. Keeping his thumb on the tip of his little finger he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘ وَ لَا نِصْفَ کَلِمَۃٍ ’ (i.e.) not even a half word. People humbly said: What does it mean? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: He is amongst them, that is, amongst deviants.

Sayyiduna Imam Ibn-e-Sereen’s hatred towards people of corrupt belief

Similarly, two deviants came to Imam Muhammad Bin Sereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and humbly said that they wanted to make him listen to the blessed Ayahs! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه refused to listen to them. They then said that they wanted to relate some Ahadees to him! He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied that he did not want to listen to them. When they insisted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked them: Either you both leave or I will leave. Finally, they both left. People humbly asked the Imam about the reason why he did not listen to the blessed Ahadees and Quranic Ayahs from them. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied that he was scared that they would add their own explanations to the Ahadees and the Quranic Ayahs, and if they remained in his heart, he would get destroyed. (Sunan Darimi, vol. 1, pp. 120, Raqm 397; Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 15, pp. 106)

(Having narrated these parables A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه) again said: Great scholars رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِتَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن had this fear and now people have dare this ‘ وَلَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُوَّۃَ اِلَّا بِاللہْ ’ Look! Safety lies in the path which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has told. ‘ اِیَّاکُمْ وَ اِیَّاھُمْ لَایُضِلُّوْنَکُمْ وَلَا یَفْتِنُوْنَکُمْ ’ Stay away from these deviants and keep them away from you lest they should misguide you, lest they should put you in fitnah. Look! Salvation lies in the path which your Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَلَا تَقْعُدْ بَعْدَ الذِّكْرٰى مَعَ الْقَوْمِ الظّٰلِمِیْنَ(۶۸)

then do not sit with the unjust after remembering

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)](Parah 7, Surah Al-In’aam, Ayah 68)

If you sit with anyone of them by mistake, so immediately get up as soon as you realize it. (Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 15, pp. 106-107)

محفوظ سدا رکھنا شہا! بے اَدَبوں سے اور مجھ سے بھی سرزد نہ کبھی بے اَدَبی ہو

Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults)—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard how destructive is bad company as it makes even great pious people miss the right path, therefore wise is he who

does not trust his Nafs despite gaining degrees of religious and worldly arts and sciences and gaining expertise in them and who always avoids the company of deviants and bad people and keeps the company of good people. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is the best source of attaining the company of good people. You are also requested to associate yourself with this Madani environment and get busy with 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to either study or teach at ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults)’.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults), elderly Islamic brothers learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation and articulation of letters (Makharij). They also memorize Du’as, correct their Salah, etc., and also receive the knowledge of Sunnah free of charge. Moreover, for Islamic sisters, in different countries of the world, approximately thousands of Madaris by the name of Madrasa tul Madinah (for women) are organized in the houses in which Islamic sisters receive the education of the Holy Quran, Salah and Sunnah free of charge and memorize Du’as. Those who learn and teach the Holy Quran are both lucky as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ ‘The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran, and teaches it to others.’ (Sahih Bukhari 3/410, Hadees 5027) اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, when people committing evils come to learn the Holy Quran in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) in the company of devotees of Rasool of Dawat-e-Islami, they get reformed. Let’s listen to one faith-refreshing parable about it.

I was fond of flying kites

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) gave the following account: Unfortunately, I spent my past life in sins. I used to fly kites and play computer games. I would stick my nose into everyone’s business, argue with people unnecessarily and would pick fights without any reason.

Luckily, I performed I’tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan in my local Masjid due to the individual efforts of an Islamic brother. I saw some extremely pleasant dreams and attained immense peace of mind. I was blessed with performing I’tikaf for another two years. Making individual effort, once the Mu’azzin of the Masjid convinced me to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of

Dawat-e-Islami in its global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah. When we reached Faizan-e-Madinah, a Muballigh was delivering a speech. He was dressed in white clothes with a brown shawl over his shoulders and a green turban on his head. He also had a fist-length beard. I had never seen such a refulgent & luminous face before. The attraction and refulgence of the Muballigh’s face captured my heart and I therefore joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e- Islami. For the past two years I have been performing I’tikaf in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah Karachi (Bab-ul-Madinah). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have also grown my beard according to the Sunnah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Bad company harms both, irrespective of whether the elder or the younger, but compared to the elder, bad company can be extremely harmful to children because they cannot distinguish good from bad at a young age. If they are not given Madani upbringing since their childhood, they become wanderer, stubborn, interest-taker, bribe-taker, deviant, non-Salah-offering person, gambler, drinker, immodest, fashionable, lover of watching films and dramas, disobedient to their parents and have many other bad habits and earn bad name for their parents and family. Therefore parents should take time for the Madani Tarbiyyat of their children along with their better education. They should play their role in making their world and the Hereafter both better and making them respectable members of the society by telling them from time to time the advantages of good company and the disadvantages of the company of bad friends.

As can be read from the parable below when the wise father realized that his son was having bad company, he did not become heedless, but rather advised him. How he tried to advise his son. Let’s listen to a parable about it and try to act upon the Madani pearls obtained from it.

Impact of bad company

A Madani child, belonging to a righteous family, started having the company of bad friends. When his father became aware of this, he made him

understand that the company of bad friends might change him into a bad boy. The child avoided this by saying, ‘O beloved father! You do not worry, I will not become like them.’ The father intended to make him understand practically and one day he brought home a lot of plums, some of them were eaten by the family members whereas when rest of them were being stored, the son said, ‘O father! There is a rotten plum amongst them, take it out.’ Father replied, ‘Keep it now, we will see it tomorrow.’ The next day, when father and son saw the plums, they found that the plums near the rotten one also went rotten. Now the father advised his son, ‘My son! Have you observed the impact of a company! The fresh plums kept in the company of rotten one also went rotten!’ The Madani child realized what his father wanted to advise, and he repented of having the company of bad friends. (Doodh Peta Madani Munna, pp. 27)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how beautifully a wise father adopted a method for preventing his Madani child from the bad company! He made his son aware of the harm of bad company by giving a common example according to his mind-set. The son also understood easily what his father wanted to make him understand by the example of fresh plums which due to the company of a rotten plum went rotten. He had a fear lest he should also become like them due to the curse of the company of bad friends. Just ponder; on the one hand we have the great character of such fortunate parents, whereas on the other hand, we have such unwise people in our society who prevent their children from having good company, let alone persuading them to have good company. When the same children, sometimes, get spoilt after falling prey to bad company, parents feel regret about what they did, but till then it is too late: ‘It’s no use crying over spilt milk’. So such children do not get back to the right path even if great efforts are made upon them.

Harm of preventing from Madani Qafila h

Making individual effort, a devotee of Rasool (from Madinah-tul-Awliya Ahmedabad, India) persuaded a young man to travel with a Madani Qafilah, but the father of the young man prevented him from the travel for religious education due to fear of the loss of his worldly education. The young man was unfortunately deprived of the company of the devotees of Rasūl. As a result, he fell prey to company of some wicked friends, turning into an

alcoholic. Now, his father realized his mistake and requested the same devotee of Rasool to take his son with a Madani Qafilah so that he might give up drinking. The devotee of Rasool made an individual effort again, but the young man had been so spoiled that he was no longer prepared to travel with the Madani Qafilah.

Similarly, once the elder sister of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ told him that an Islamic sister tearfully requested her to make Du’a for the reform of her son’s character. ‘Alas, she said, ‘I have myself spoiled my son! I got him enrolled in the Hifz [Quranic memorization] class of Madrasa-tul-Madinah . When he came home after learning Sunnahs and etiquette, he would tell them to us, but we would make fun of him. Disheartened, he eventually stopped going to Madrasa-tul-Madinah . Now, he has become a loafer due to the company of bad friends. Coincidentally, I have associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Now I deeply regret. Alas! What will become of me!’

صُحبتِ صالِـح تُرا صالِـح کُنَند صُحبتِ طالِـح تُرا طالِـح کُنَند

(The company of the pious will make you pious, whereas that of the wicked will make you wicked).

Introduction to the book, ‘Blessings of good environment’

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How regretful are the parents who do not provided their children with good company! If parents associate themselves with the Madani environment and give Madani upbringing to their children, so these children not only will benefit them in the world, but they will also become the source of their salvation in the Hereafter. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Maktaba tul Madinah has published a 50-page book named, ‘Achhay Mahool ki barkatayn’ in order to spread the blessings of good company and to save Ummah from the curse and evils of bad company. In this book, the recognition of good and bad company, advantages of good environment and the disadvantages of bad environment have all been mentioned in the light of blessed Ayahs, Ahadees and sayings of pious saints of Islam. Buy this book from Maktaba tul Madinah and read it not only yourself, but also persuade

others to do so. It can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If a sesame seed is kept in a rose, it will also become pink in the company of the rose. Similarly, the one, who has the company of good people, also starts copying them day by day. So the person who keeps the company of the fortunate people, who are filled with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, blessed companions and Ahl-e-Bait رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and follow Sunnah strictly, by virtue of whose company the passion for practice (of good deeds) increases, hatred towards sins and Fikr-e-Akhirat [pondering over Hereafter] are attained, how can he be deprived of the blessings? Sayyiduna Maslauddin Sa’adi Sheerazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated the importance of good company in a beautiful manner. In Gulistan-e-Sa’adi he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The translation of it is as follows: One day, I found fragrant soil in the hand of my friend in a bathroom. I asked the soil if it was musk or ambergris because its pleasant fragrance had made me out of my senses. (Having heard this the soil said): I was inferior soil, but I had been in the company of flowers for a long period, that’s why the beauty of my companion has created this effect on me (that I have become fragrant), otherwise I am the same dust which I had been before.

Blessings of good company

Dear Islamic brothers! Have the company of righteous people as far as possible because the company of good people if even given to animals, let alone humans, they will no longer remain ordinary animal, but rather their eminence and importance increase many times. For example, the dog of Ashab-e-Kahf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمۡ which was at first an ordinary dog, but due to its love and affection for Ashab-e-Kahf رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمۡ, it became their companion, travelling-companion and guard. By virtue of the blessing of the company of pious saints fortune smiled on it and its status and rank became so much elevated that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned it in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 18 of Surah Al-Kahf, part 15, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ كَلْبُهُمْ بَاسِطٌ ذِرَاعَیْهِ بِالْوَصِیْدِؕ-

And their dog is on the threshold of the cave, with its paws outstretched

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)](Parah 15, Surah Al-Kahf, Ayah 18)

Sayyiduna Imam Abu Abdullah Muhammad Bin Ahmad Qurtabi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When by virtue of the blessing of good company of pious people and pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی a dog has attained such a high and elevated rank that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned it in the Holy Quran, so what do you think about the Muslim who loves pious saints and righteous bondmen and attain their blessings? This blessed Ayah contains consolation for the Muslims who have no high status. (Tafseer-e-Qurtubi, Parah 15, Surah Al-Kahf, Ayah 18) That is to say, there is consolation for those who due to their love and devotion will succeed in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Madani Channel

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Whether it is a man or animal, the one who keeps good company does not get deprived of its blessing. He receives special Divine grace and favour and succeeds. In this sinful era, a source of seeking good company is the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this Madani environment, the company of devotees of Rasool has reformed many spoiled people who after repenting and reforming are living their life as per the Madani aim, ‘I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ so you also take part actively in the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami in order to act upon this Madani aim.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness across the globe in more than 103 departments of Islam. One of them is Madani Channel. Currently, media is playing a role of an effective tool in making mind and character of people. Many people are misusing it due to which especially the youth are badly affected by its influence and ideas.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and the central Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami strongly felt that it was almost impossible to remove

TV from the houses of Muslims. So they found only one way and it was to enter their homes through TV to wake them up to the fact as when a river floods, it is turned towards fields, etc., so that fields can be irrigated and populated areas can also be saved from destruction.

When information was obtained about this department, it became obvious that it was possible to provide 100 percent Islamic content staying safe from films, dramas, songs, music, tunes and appearance of women by launching their own channel. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami made a great effort and started conveying the message of Sunnah to homes via Madani Channel in September, 2008 (Ramadan-ul-Mubarak, 1429 H) and within a short span of time; its wonderful results were achieved.

مَدَنی چینل کی مُہِم ہے نفس وشیطاں کے خلاف جو بھی دیکھے گا کرےگا اِنْ شَآءَ اللہ اِعتراف

نَفْسِ اَمَّارہ پہ ضَرب ایسی لگے گی زور دار شرمِ عصیاں کے سبب ہوگا گنہگار اَشکبار

Dear Islamic brothers! You also persuade your family members, relatives and friends to watch Madani Channel. Protect not only yourself from watching sinful channels, but also others. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all the evils found in the society, which not only bring about worldly loss, but will also become the cause of disgrace and humiliation on the Judgement Day, are pointed out on Madani Channel. You also make intention that you will not watch sinful channels from today onwards, nor will you go even near the sins, but rather you will perform more and more good deeds for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to act upon [good deeds] being steadfast on our intention!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard:

One having bad company becomes a sign of admonition in the society.

One having bad company always suffers a loss.

The company of deviants (people of corrupt belief) is a deadly poison for one’s faith, whereas betterment of the world and the Hereafter lies in the company of good people.

It is the responsibility of parents to provide their children with good company.

They should inform their children about the benefits of avoiding bad company.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bless us with good company for the sake of His righteous bondmen and enable us to protect others after protecting ourselves from the bad company!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

12 Madani pearls of conversation

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in addition to earning reward, you will hold a respectful status before them.

3. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

1. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a newborn baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

2. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

3. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

4. Do not laugh while talking. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never laughed.

5. Excessive talking and frequent laughing affect one’s prestige.

6. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When you see someone blessed with disinterest in the world and (the attribute of) speaking less, adopt his nearness and company, as Hikmah (wisdom) is given to him.’ (Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, pp. 422, vol. 4, Hadees 4101)

7. A blessed Hadees says, ‘The one remaining silent received salvation.’

(Jami’ Tirmiżi, pp. 225, vol. 4, Hadees 2509)

Mirat-ul-Manajih states: Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی states, ‘There are four kinds of conversations: (1) completely harmful, (2) completely beneficial, (3) either beneficial or harmful, (4) neither harmful nor beneficial. It is necessary to abstain from the completely harmful; do speak if the conversation is completely beneficial. If the conversation falls in the third category then be cautious. It is however, better to abstain from it; one should not waste time in this type of conversation. It is difficult to differentiate between the four types, so remaining silent is better.’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 464)

8. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

1. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haram, (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) and Heaven is Haram on the one engaged in indecent speech. (Kitab-us-Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Raqm 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

