Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Sacrifices of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللہَ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ غَدًا رَاضِیًا ’ the one who likes that Allah Almighty be pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah Almighty, ‘ فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ ’ then he should recite Salat upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِہٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1- Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2- The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation .

1- Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2- Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3- I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4- If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5- When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6- After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7- During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8- Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Turned dream into reality

Dear Islamic sisters! The month of Zul-Hijjah-tul-Haraam is showering its blessings and fragrances. This is such a blessed month in which the beloved Nabi of Allah, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام displayed such observance of patience and pleasure along with his beloved son, Sayyiduna Isma’eel Zabeehullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, that its example cannot be found. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw a dream on the 8th night of Zul Hajj. Someone was saying in it: “Indeed, Allah Almighty commands you to slaughter your son.” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام saw the same dream on the 9th night. After seeing the same dream on the 10th night, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a firm intention to act upon this dream, i.e. slaughter his son, in the morning. (Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 346; Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 2-3)

While acting upon the command of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام took along his beloved son who was 7 years old at that time (or 13 years old or slightly more). (Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 3)

Then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام tied Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام the way he asked him to tie. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام sharpened his knife, laid down Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام on his forehead, removed his gaze from his face and used the knife on his throat. However, the knife did not work, i.e. the throat did not get cut. At that time, revelation revealed upon Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah Almighty says in part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah no 104 to 107:

وَ نَادَیْنٰهُ اَنْ یّٰۤاِبْرٰهِیْمُۙ(۱۰۴) قَدْ صَدَّقْتَ الرُّءْیَاۚ-اِنَّا كَذٰلِكَ نَجْزِی الْمُحْسِنِیْنَ(۱۰۵) اِنَّ هٰذَا لَهُوَ الْبَلٰٓؤُا الْمُبِیْنُ(۱۰۶) وَ فَدَیْنٰهُ بِذِبْحٍ عَظِیْمٍ(۱۰۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We called out to him; that, ‘O Ibraheem!’ ‘You have indeed made the dream come true.’ And this is how We reward the virtuous. Indeed this was a clear test. And We rescued him (Isma’eel) in exchange for a great sacrifice. (Part 23, Surah As-Saffaat, Ayah 104 to 107)

Dear Islamic sisters! This parable not only proves the great rank of Sayyiduna Isma’eel’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام patience and contentment upon the Will of Allah

Almighty, but also highlights how devotedly Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was obedient and submissive to Allah Almighty.

Can everyone sacrifice their sons upon seeing a dream?

Remember! No one can sacrifice her own or someone else’s son or any human being based on a dream or a voice heard from the unseen. If one does so, she will be a grave sinner and deserving of the hellfire. It is true that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got ready to sacrifice his son based on a dream because he is a Nabi and dream of a Nabi is Wahee [revelation] from Allah Almighty. It was a test for these illustrious individuals. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام brought a Heavenly sheep and with the command of Allah Almighty, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام slaughtered the Heavenly sheep instead of his beloved son. (Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 19)

Introduction of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

His name is “Ibraheem”. Ibraheem is a Syriac [1] word. It means اَبٌ رَحِیْمٌ (i.e. kind father) because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was very kind towards the children. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is famous for his hospitality and compassionate behaviour. This is why he is called Ibraheem. Some people have said that Ibraheem was actually Abram. It means Buzurg [a pious personality]. Because he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the father of various blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and his reverence is mentioned in all religions to the extent that even the polytheists of Arab also used to revere him, that’s why his blessed name was Ibraheem. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 1, pp. 618)

His Kunyah is Abu Dayfaan [ ابُو الضَّیْفان ], i.e. extremely hospitable. Because his house was at the street side, that’s why whoever would pass by there, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would extend hospitality. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, vol. 1, pp. 434)

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born in a place called “Saus” in “Ahwaaz”. Then his father brought him in “Baabil”, the country of Namrood. Allah Almighty blessed him

with wisdom and intellect and made him observe everything of this earth and the sky. Therefore, Allah Almighty has said:

وَ كَذٰلِكَ نُرِیْۤ اِبْرٰهِیْمَ مَلَكُوْتَ السَّمٰوٰتِ وَ الْاَرْضِ وَ لِیَكُوْنَ مِنَ الْمُوْقِنِیْنَ(۷۵) Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And likewise We show Ibraheem the entire kingdom of the heavens and the earth and so that he be of those who believe with certainty of sight. (Part 7, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 75)

10 Special excellences

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام attained 10 such excellences that are specific only to him. Those excellences are as follows:

1- After our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the most superior.

2- Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام is the father of all the Ambiya Kiraam succeeding him. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 52)

3- Every divinely-revealed religion has declared it obligatory to follow and obey him.

4- The followers of every religion honour him.

5- Sacrificing (of animal) is in fact his remembrance.

6- Rites of Hajj are in fact his remembrance.

7- He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the first to have built the Holy Ka’bah, making it like a house.

8- People began to stand in worship and perform prostration near the stone he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام stood on while building the Holy Ka’bah. [This stone is referred to as Maqaam-e-Ibraheem.]

9- He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and his respected wife, Sayyidatuna Saarah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, bring up the deceased Muslim children in Barzakh [1] .

10- On the Day of Judgement, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will be the first to be bestowed upon excellent attire. Immediately after him, our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be blessed with this favour. (Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 1, pp. 621; Bayta Ho to Aysa, pp. 12)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Our Nabi is the most superior and highly ranked

Dear Islamic sisters! The last excellence stated above that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will be blessed with the elegant garment first on the day of Judgement, and then after him, it would be our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; listening to it, one might get the whisper that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is superior to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام being blessed with the special attire on the Day of Judgement is a fact, however, our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is [the most] superior. Allah Almighty says in part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah number 253:

تِلْكَ الرُّسُلُ فَضَّلْنَا بَعْضَهُمْ عَلٰى بَعْضٍۘ-مِنْهُمْ مَّنْ كَلَّمَ اللّٰهُ وَ رَفَعَ بَعْضَهُمْ دَرَجٰتٍؕ-وَ اٰتَیْنَا عِیْسَى ابْنَ مَرْیَمَ الْبَیِّنٰتِ وَ اَیَّدْنٰهُ بِرُوْحِ الْقُدُسِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: These are Messengers; that We have exalted one above the other; amongst them is one with whom Allah spoke, and one is that whom (Allah) elevated in rank above all. And We gave ‘Isa; the son of Maryam, clear signs and We helped him with the pure spirit (Angel Jibra`eel).

Under the commentary of this Ayah, it is stated in Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 1, page 379, a commentary of the Holy Quran published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

In this Ayah, three blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام have specially been mentioned out of all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . One is Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Allah

Almighty conversed with him without any means on Koh-e-Toor [1] ; whereas same privilege was granted to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the night of Mi’raaj. The second Nabi who has been mentioned in this Ayah is Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who was blessed with apparent signs; for example, resurrecting the dead, curing the ill, making a bird out of clay, giving the pieces of news of unseen, etc. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was helped through Ruh-ul-Qudus, i.e. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who always used to be with him. Then comes that blessed personality whose rank and status are far above all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, about whom it is stated that We have elevated him to great degrees. And this personality is our Master, the embodiment of Noor, leader of Ambiya, Muhammad Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has been given superiority over all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام by numerous ranks. The entire Ummah has consensus over this belief and this belief is proven from numerous Ahadees.

Dear Islamic sisters! We came to know that our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is superior to all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام ; to the extent that the attributes and high ranks that were blessed to even Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, they too were due to the sake of our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because this world and everything that it contains was created for the sake of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Pointing towards the same reality, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states:

ہوتے کہاں خلیل و بِنا، کَعبہ و مِنٰی

لَولاک والے صاحِبی سب تیرے گھر کی ہے

I.e. A’la Hadrat states: Every being’s existence is due to the blessings of the Noor [illumination] of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were not created, then neither would have Sayyiduna Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the one who built Ka’bah, existed, nor would have the foundations of blessed Ka’bah been laid down and nor there would have been so liveliness in Mina. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish by Maulana Hasan Qaadiri, pp. 585)

So, even the universe was created for the sake of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the life in the entire universe is also due to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . When Allah Almighty decided to populate the universe with the Creation, then He Almighty created the Noor of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . At that time, there was neither jinn nor any human, there was no Lawh and neither was there Qalam, there was no Heaven and Hell, neither was there any Hoor and nor was there any angel, there was no earth and sky and nor had the sun and moon been created. At that time, Allah Almighty created Lawh and Qalam, and ‘Arsh and Kursi with the Noor of His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Then, Allah Almighty created sky and earth, and Heaven and Hell with that blessed Noor. In short, the purpose of the creation of the universe is the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As it is the summary of a Hadees-e-Qudsi.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates: Allah Almighty sent a revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O ‘Isa! Embrace faith upon Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! And whosoever among your Ummah reaches his era, command them as well to embrace faith upon him. ‘ فَلَوْ لَامُحَمَّدٌ مَا خَلَقْتُ اٰدَمَ وَلَا الْجَنَّۃَ وَلَاالنَّار َ ’ i.e. if Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) was not created, then I would not have created Aadam, neither Paradise and nor Hell. When I created ‘Arsh over water, it was shaking at that time. I inscribed ‘ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللّٰہِ ’ on it. Hence, it became stable.

(Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 14)

Therefore, the whole universe’s liveliness is due to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is stated in Hadees-e-Qudsi:

لَقَدْخَلَقْتُ الْدُنْیَا وَاَھْلَھَا لِاُعَرِّفَھُمْ کَرَامَتَکَ وَمَنْزِلَتَکَ عِنْدِیْ وَلَوْلاَکَ یَامُحَمَّدُ! مَاخَلَقْتُ الدُّنْیَا

O My Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I created the world and its dwellers so that I make them acquainted of your dignity and majesty that you hold in My court, and O My Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! If you did not exist, I would not have created the world. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 3, pp. 518; Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 521)

So we came to know that everything in this world, even the existence of all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام is due to only our Beloved Master, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the soul of the universe.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Inviting the nation towards righteousness

Dear Islamic sisters! Allah Almighty blessed Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with the highest rank among all Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام after our Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty, along with blessing His chosen and beloved bondmen with comfort and ease, also tests them by afflicting hardships. Moreover, instead of complaining over the trials and tests, these dignified personalities always endure them happily. Allah Almighty also tested Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with various things and with the grace and mercy of Allah Almighty, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام succeeded in every test. His nation was indulged in the curse of polytheism. When he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام announced his Prophethood, he started from his [paternal] uncle within his own family and invited him to abstain from polytheism and invited him towards believing in Allah Almighty to be the true and sole Lord. As a result, instead of accepting his invitation, his uncle became his enemy. This parable has been mentioned as following in the Holy Quran. Therefore, Allah Almighty states in part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah number 42 and 43:

اِذْ قَالَ لِاَبِیْهِ یٰۤاَبَتِ لِمَ تَعْبُدُ مَا لَا یَسْمَعُ وَ لَا یُبْصِرُ وَ لَا یُغْنِیْ عَنْكَ شَیْــٴًـا(۴۲) یٰۤاَبَتِ اِنِّیْ قَدْ جَآءَنِیْ مِنَ الْعِلْمِ مَا لَمْ یَاْتِكَ فَاتَّبِعْنِیْۤ اَهْدِكَ صِرَاطًا سَوِیًّا(۴۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: When he said to his father (i.e. his uncle Aazar) ‘O my father, why do you worship the one who neither hears nor sees, and cannot benefit you in any way?’ ‘O my father, indeed there has come to me that knowledge which did not come to you, therefore follow me; I will show you the straight path.’ (Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 42-43)

Dear Islamic sisters! In this Ayah, uncle of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has been referred to as his father. While mentioning its reason, Sadr-ul-Afadil, Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: It is stated in Qamoos that Aazar is the name of Sayyiduna Ibraheem’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام [paternal] uncle. Imam ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written the same in Masalik-ul-Hunafa. It is a custom to call [paternal] uncle as father in all the countries, especially in ‘Arab. It is stated in the Holy Quran:

نَعْبُدُ اِلٰهَكَ وَ اِلٰهَ اٰبَآىٕكَ اِبْرٰهٖمَ وَ اِسْمٰعِیْلَ وَ اِسْحٰقَ اِلٰهًا وَّاحِدًا ۖ -

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We shall worship He who is your God and the God of your fathers, Ibraheem, Isma’eel and Ishaaq; the only One God. (Khaza’in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 261)

In short, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام explained his [paternal] uncle in every possible way but he did not agree to leave the old religion and replied in a very harsh manner; which Holy Quran mentions in part 16, Ayah number 46 of Surah Maryam in the following words:

قَالَ اَرَاغِبٌ اَنْتَ عَنْ اٰلِهَتِیْ یٰۤاِبْرٰهِیْمُۚ-لَىٕنْ لَّمْ تَنْتَهِ لَاَرْجُمَنَّكَ وَ اهْجُرْنِیْ مَلِیًّا(۴۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: He (Aazar) said, ‘What! Do you turn your face from my gods, O Ibraheem? If you do not desist, I will certainly stone you; and do not have any connection with me for a long time.’

Cold fire

After his uncle refused to accept his invitation and became his enemy, then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام invited his nation; but they too refused to accept his invitation. However, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام remained determined to invite his nation towards righteousness and take them out of the dark valleys of disbelief and polytheism, but they did not abstain from it and they too became his enemy and started saying:

قَالُوا اقْتُلُوْهُ اَوْ حَرِّقُوْهُ

They said, “Kill him or burn him”. (Part 20, Surah Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 24)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, Sayyiduna Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eem-ud-Deen Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Namrood and his people agreed to burn Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and imprisoned him in a house. Then they built a building in Qaryah Koosa and strived intensely to gather various types of wood for a whole month. Then they lit a huge fire. Due to its heat, birds flying in the air would get burnt. Thereafter, they placed a catapult, tied Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and threw him in the fire using the catapult. At that time, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was proclaiming ‘ حَسْبِیَ اﷲُ وَ نِعْمَ الْوَکِیْلُ ’ [ i.e. Allah is sufficient for me, and what an excellent Custodian of matters (He is) ]. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to him, “Do you need me?” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, “Not you”. Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: “Then ask (for help from) your Lord Almighty.” He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied, “Rather than asking (Him for help), His knowing my state suffices me.” (Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Ayah 68)

At that time, Allah Almighty commanded the fire:

قُلْنَا یٰنَارُ كُوْنِیْ بَرْدًا وَّ سَلٰمًا عَلٰۤى اِبْرٰهِیْمَۙ(۶۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We said, ‘O fire! Become cool and peaceful upon Ibraheem.’ (Part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Ayah 69)

Therefore, the fire did not burn anything else except what he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was tied with. Heat of the fire was removed and its light remained. (Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 17, Surah Al-Ambiya, Taht-al-Ayah 69)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Observing patience over trials is the way of Ambiya

Dear Islamic sisters! You heard that with what courage, steadfastness, determination and patience Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام invited his nation towards the right path. Firstly, his household became his enemy, and then his nation also became his enemy. Despite this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not abandon

spreading the invitation of the Deen; rather, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام continued to strive for their reformation. To the extent that they planned to burn him alive in the fire; but still, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not lose courage in front of them, and look at the heights of the observance of his patience that at that time, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام even came and humbly asked if you need something. If so, let me know. I will fulfil it. But may we get sacrificed upon the majesty of Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that even at that time, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام remained an embodiment of patience and contentment. Those Islamic sisters should also learn a lesson from this parable who keep complaining over the hardships they face while presenting invitation towards righteousness in the path of Allah Almighty.

Remember! To propagate Deen is the blessed Sunnah of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and to observe patience over the hardships faced in this path is also the way of these sacred personages. Allah Almighty tests Ambiya and Mursaleen عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and Awliya-e-Kamileen رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, and upon their patience over these hardships, the Merciful and Compassionate Lord Almighty Blesses them with numerous rewards and elevates their ranks with His Mercy. We shall also observe patience for the pleasure of Allah Almighty in case we face hardships and calamities while presenting the call towards righteousness. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ with its blessings, we will attain abundant of reward. In this relation, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and develop a yearning for acting upon it:

1- One who observed patience over a calamity, to the extent that he responded it with patience, then Allah Almighty will write three hundred (300) ranks for him. There will be a distance of earth and sky between every two ranks. (Al-Jaami’-us-Sagheer lis-Suyuti, pp. 317, Hadees 5137)

2- Allah Almighty keeps a person inflicted with a calamity to the extent that the calamity erases all his sins. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 1, pp. 668, Hadees 1326)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Visit, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! We heard about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that what great hardships he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام faced in the way of presenting call towards righteousness; but despite this, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not back off and kept fulfilling this important obligation duly. Acting upon his Sunnah, we shall also present call towards righteousness to those who remain indulged in sins and are lazy in offering their Salah, or do not offer Salah at all. In order to perform this task in an efficient manner, associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and actively participate in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli-Halqah.

One weekly Madani activity out of the 8 Madani activities is ‘Madani visit’, through which Islamic sisters are presented the call towards righteousness at their homes. Have the privilege of presenting the call towards righteousness through ‘Madani visit’ after fixing a day in a week and changing areas. At least seven Islamic sisters (one should be at least elderly woman) should make ‘Madani visit’ for 72 minutes by going to every house in their Zayli Halqah or the surroundings of their Halqah (in purdah). Stay associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an Islamic sister who got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

Got rid of non-observance of Pardah

Before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami an Islamic sister living in Taxila (district Rawalpindi, Punjab) used to commit sins like following new types of fashions, listening to songs and music, observing no Pardah, etc. Moreover, she also had the habits of being angry and irritable. Madani transformation occurred in her life like this that one day an Islamic sister associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami presented her the call towards righteousness and making an individual effort upon her she made her mind to attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ organized under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami.

The conversation of the Islamic sister impressed her so much that she could not refuse her and went to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. The Sunnah-inspiring Bayan after the recitation of the Holy Quran and blessed Na’at was very interesting and impressive. Then the blessed sounds of Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the tear-jerking Du’as really impressed her. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ done in the Ijtima’ caused great relaxation to her. Since that day she has been associated with Dawat-e-Islami. Before attending the Ijtima’ she had been committing the sins like observing no Pardah, but اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ by virtue of the blessing of attending Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ she started wearing Madani Burqa’ and she is still steadfast in it.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

Tests and trials in devotion

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was born to the blessed wife of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyidatuna Bibi Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . After the birth of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام received a Wahee [revelation] that leave Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in such land that has nothing but desolate fields and dry mountains. Therefore, Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام embarked upon a journey with Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and came to the place where the blessed Ka’bah is situated. At that time, no one resided there, neither was there any water spring and nor was there any sign of water or human far and wide.

Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left leaving few dates in a utensil and water in a bowl. Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا pleaded: ‘O Nabi of Allah Almighty! Where are you going leaving us helpless in this desolate place where there is neither companion nor any sympathiser?’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا called him several times but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not respond at all. In the end, Sayyidatuna Haajirah

رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا asked that ‘just tell us whether you have left us here at your own will or upon the command of Allah Almighty?’ Then he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied that ‘O Haajirah! Whatever I did is upon the command of Allah Almighty.’ Upon listening to this, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘You may go now. I have firm belief and fully satisfied that Allah Almighty will not make me and my child perish.’

Within a few days, dates and water finished and Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا felt severe hunger and thirst. Her milk had also dried up and the child became restless due to hunger and thirst. In the search of water, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا ran between the hills of Safa and Marwah seven (7) times, but no signs of water could be seen anywhere. Due to the intensity of thirst, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was crying tapping his blessed heels on the ground. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel tapped his blessed foot on the ground close to Sayyiduna Isma’eel’s عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام blessed heels and made the Zamzam spring emerge there. According to another narration, the Zamzam spring emerged from the blessed heel of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 4, pp. 67)

This water possessed the characteristics of milk and used to work as both, food and water. Therefore, Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام survived drinking this very water of Zamzam; to the extent that Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام became grown-up and started hunting. So, they started living on the hunted meat and the water of Zamzam. Then some people of the tribe of Jurham came in this field while grazing their goats. Upon looking at the spring of water, they also dwelled there with the permission of Sayyidatuna Haajirah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Moreover, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام got married to one of the girls of this tribe and gradually, this place became populated. (‘Ajaaib-ul-Quran ma’ Gharaib-ul-Quran, pp. 145; summarized)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Exemplary obedience!

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable, we come to know that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was an extremely obedient and submissive bondman of Allah Almighty. The son that he was blessed with after numerous Du’as in his old age; the son who was the apple of his eyes and peace of his heart; being a father, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could never separate him naturally from himself; but for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his beloved son and wife in the desolate valley of ‘ بَطْحا ’ [Batha] where there was not even a single leaf as a shelter or not even a drop of water to quench thirst, and neither was there anyone to help nor was there any companion or sympathiser.

If it was anyone of us, then perhaps just thinking about it would have made every strand of our hair shiver. In fact, due to extreme distress, it would have given us a cardiac arrest. However, listening to the command of Allah Almighty, neither did Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام become worried, nor did he think about it even for a moment and nor did he shatter due to the distress or sorrow. Rather, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to the land of Makkah from Syria with his wife and child in order to fulfil the command of Allah Almighty straight away. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his wife and child in Makkah and returned to Syria.

اَللّٰہُ اَکْبَر! May our life be sacrificed upon such passion of obedience and determination of submissiveness!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Content upon the Will of Allah Almighty

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent all his life sacrificing in the path of Allah Almighty. Whenever there was a command of Allah Almighty, then while fulfilling the command, at times he abstained his household from committing shirk (polytheism) and at times, he faced enmity from his nation by presenting them the call towards righteousness. At times, he relayed the true message of Tawheed and Risalah to the ruler of the time

Exemplary obedience!

Dear Islamic sisters! From this parable, we come to know that Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was an extremely obedient and submissive bondman of Allah Almighty. The son that he was blessed with after numerous Du’as in his old age; the son who was the apple of his eyes and peace of his heart; being a father, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could never separate him naturally from himself; but for the pleasure of Allah Almighty, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his beloved son and wife in the desolate valley of ‘ بَطْحا ’ [Batha] where there was not even a single leaf as a shelter or not even a drop of water to quench thirst, and neither was there anyone to help nor was there any companion or sympathiser.

If it was anyone of us, then perhaps just thinking about it would have made every strand of our hair shiver. In fact, due to extreme distress, it would have given us a cardiac arrest. However, listening to the command of Allah Almighty, neither did Sayyiduna Ibraheem Khaleelullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام become worried, nor did he think about it even for a moment and nor did he shatter due to the distress or sorrow. Rather, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام went to the land of Makkah from Syria with his wife and child in order to fulfil the command of Allah Almighty straight away. Moreover, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام left his wife and child in Makkah and returned to Syria.

اَللّٰہُ اَکْبَر! May our life be sacrificed upon such passion of obedience and determination of submissiveness!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Content upon the Will of Allah Almighty

Dear Islamic sisters! Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent all his life sacrificing in the path of Allah Almighty. Whenever there was a command of Allah Almighty, then while fulfilling the command, at times he abstained his household from committing shirk (polytheism) and at times, he faced enmity from his nation by presenting them the call towards righteousness. At times, he relayed the true message of Tawheed and Risalah to the ruler of the time

Dear Islamic sisters! Indeed there is no doubt in the fact that a person can never be dissociated from the unlimited and countless blessings of Allah Almighty at any time, any moment or in any state. Therefore, even if a tribulation befalls upon us or some bounty is taken away from us, yet there are other countless blessings of Allah Almighty. Therefore, wise is the one who observes patience in such times and tolerates tribulations for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to its blessings, we will attain abundant of reward. Therefore, listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. 1- Whatever difficulty, torture, anxiety, grief and sorrow a Muslim receives, to the extent that even if he gets pricked by a thorn, then Allah Almighty erases his sins due to these afflictions. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 3, Hadees 5640)

2- On the Day of Judgement, when a proclaimer will announce: ‘Who is the one whose reward is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty?’ The creation will say: ‘Who is the one whose reward is upon the mercy of Allah Almighty?’ The angels will reply: ‘The one who was inflicted with such calamity (in the world) due to which his heart became distressed, tears flowed from [his] eyes, but out of hope of reward, he observed patience for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Today, he shall stand up and take his reward from Allah Almighty.’ (Naykiyaun ki Jaza’ayn aur Gunahaun ki Saza’ayn, pp. 63)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of sacrifice

Dear Islamic sisters! We shall also try to develop the habit of patience and thankfulness within ourselves. One great way of implementing these noble characteristics in our character is also to study the biography and character of our righteous predecessors. When we will read the parables of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and distinguished Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ our lives will also blossom with the Madani fragrance of their characters. Today, we heard about Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spent his entire life

in the obedience of Allah Almighty. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام practically sacrificed his life, soul and wealth upon the command of Allah Almighty; to the extent that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not even hold back from sacrificing his beloved son in the path of Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty liked this action of his so much that He Almighty commanded the entire Muslim Ummah to sacrifice an animal while following this action of His Khaleel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Therefore, Qurbani (sacrificing an animal) is Wajib upon every Muslim man and woman who is Baaligh, resident and sahib-e-Nisaab (financially capable). (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 292)

Being Sahib-e-Nisaab (financially capable) means that a person has fifty-two and a half (52.5) Tola silver, or equivalent cash, or trading goods equivalent to that amount, or goods (that are beyond one’s Haajat-e-Asliyyah [necessities]) equivalent to that amount. Moreover, she does not have outstanding debt to pay off to Allah Almighty or people to the amount that if she pays it off, then the monetary value of the aforementioned assets will reduce below the monetary value of 52.5 Tola silver. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 187)

Fuqaha-e-Kiraam رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی state: Haajat-e-Asliyyah (necessary provisions for life) means those things which a person normally needs and finds it extremely difficult to spend her life without them. For example, house to live in, clothes to wear, ride, books regarding the knowledge of Deen, work tools etc. (‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 172)

Numerous Ahadees mention the virtues of sacrifice. Let’s listen to two blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this relation:

1- Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Arqam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: Blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked, “Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What are the sacrifices?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “They are the Sunnah of your father, Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .” The blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم humbly asked: “Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What reward is held in them for us?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “There is one virtue in exchange of every hair.” They humbly asked: “And in wool?” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: “There is a reward of one virtue in exchange of every hair of it too.”

(Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 3, pp. 531, Raqm 3127)

2- It is stated in another blessed Hadees: O people! Perform sacrifice wholeheartedly and hope for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and reward upon its blood, even if it has fallen on the ground; because it falls in the protection of Allah Almighty. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 148, Hadees 8319)

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! One upon whom sacrifice is Wajib due to the Shar’i principles, it is necessary for her to learn the rulings of sacrifice as well. Due to being distanced from Ilm-e-Deen in the current era, Muslims are unable to perform this important obligation properly. The state of religious knowledge of a large number in our society is such that various Sahib-e-Nisab individuals living in the same house sacrifice only one goat on behalf of the whole family. Moreover, they don’t know at all that what kind of animal should it be for sacrifice? Or which fault in the animal will nullify the sacrifice? Furthermore, they keep assuming after the sacrifice that we have also acted upon the Sunnah of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and our Wajib has been performed; whereas, fulfilment of Wajib still remains to be performed on their account. That’s why, it is absolutely necessary to know the rulings of sacrifice.

In relation to the issues faced in sacrificing an animal, study of the 48-page booklet of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, namely “ Piebald Horse Rider ” will be extremely beneficial. Every Islamic brother and sister should read it at least once before performing the sacrifice. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will attain immense knowledge of Deen and also become aware of various rulings of sacrifice. In order to get more information regarding the sacrificing of an animal, read the rulings of Qurbani from Maktaba-tul-Madinah’s published book “ Bahar-e-Shari’at, volume 3, part 15”, or contact Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat.

Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) [for Islamic sisters]

Dear Islamic sisters! To get abreast of religious rulings, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and seek admission in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) holds the privilege of establishing approximately 265 (Two Hundred and Sixty Five) Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) in Pakistan and abroad. 16,217 (Sixteen Thousand Two Hundred and Seventeen) students (Islamic sisters) are undergoing free Dars-e-Nizami (Islamic Scholar Course). Approximately 3,600 (Three Thousand and Six Hundred) whereas, more or less 4,014 (Four Thousand and Fourteen) Islamic sisters had the privilege to complete “Dars-e-Nizami” and “Faizan-e-Shari’at Course” respectively. Therefore, pluck up courage and get yourself and your (grownup) sisters and daughters enrolled in Jami’a-tul-Madinah (Lil-Banaat) and create a means of Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward) for yourself.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Qurbani

1- The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘On the day of Eid-ul-Adha, man performs no other good deed that is dearer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ than shedding blood (of the sacrificial animal). This sacrificed animal will come with its horns, hair and hooves and the sacrifice is accepted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ before the blood of the sacrificed animal reaches the ground. Therefore, perform the Qurbani wholeheartedly.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 162, Hadees 1498)

2- The one who wholeheartedly performs Qurbani of an animal for reward, his Qurbani will serve as a barrier between him and hellfire. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 84, Hadees 2736)

3- Determine the direction of the Qiblah before making the Qurbani animal lie down, as turning it towards the Qiblah by dragging it after making it lie down, especially on a stony ground is extremely painful for it.

Sunan and manners of Qurbani

٭ Do not cut so much that the knife reaches the neck joint, causing unnecessary suffering to the animal.

٭ Unless the sacrificed animal becomes completely dead (and its body parts become motionless), neither cut its feet nor skin it.

٭ Do not even touch the knife and your hand to its cut throat unless its soul has left its body.

٭ In order to quicken the death of the cow, some butchers take off the neck-skin of a writhing cow, stab into its chest and cut the veins of its heart.

٭ Similarly, some people break the neck of the goat right after slaughtering it.

٭ Animals cannot express their sufferings; they should not be oppressed in any way.

٭ Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘Feed fodder and water to the animal before the slaughter. Do not slaughter it when it is hungry or thirsty. Do not slaughter one animal in front of the other and sharpen the knife in advance. Let it not be that you sharpen the knife after you have made the animal lie down. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 352)

