اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Great Decisions of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنۡهُ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The angels keep sending mercies upon a Muslim until he continues to recite Salat upon me. Now, it is the person’s choice whether he recites less or more.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 490, Hadees 907)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

100 Dinars and 2 cheaters

Once two people came to a woman of Quraysh and deposited 100 dinars with her and said: If we both come together to get this deposit, return it to us. If anyone of us comes to you alone, do not return it to him at all. After a year a person [one of them] came and said to the woman: My companion has passed away; return me the deposit of 100 dinars. Refusing him the woman said: You both laid down the condition that if you both come together, then your deposit should be returned to you and you also said that it should not be returned to any one of you if he comes alone. Therefore, I will not return it to you. That person insisted on her family members, relatives and neighbours to compel her to return him his deposit. Finally, at their insistence, she returned 100 dinars to him. After a year the second person came and asked for his money. The woman said: Your companion came to me and said that you had died, so I have returned all the dinars to him.

Anyhow, first this case was brought to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, but at the request of the woman he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sent both of them to Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ realized at once when heard the detail of the incident from the woman that both friends together cheated her. Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked the man: Didn’t you both say this to the woman? ‘Unless we both come together do not return the dinars to any of us’. He replied in positive and said that they had decided the same. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said: Returning your money is our responsibility. Go and bring your companion so that we can return your deposit to you. (Kitab-ul-Azkiya, pp. 39)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood from the above-mentioned parable that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with great intellectual abilities along with plenty of knowledge. That’s why by virtue of his great intelligence he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ saved the woman from the financial loss which she could suffer due to the cheaters.

Remember, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possessed lots of marvels and attributes. For instance, he is the lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the son-in-law of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; he is Haydar-e-Karraar, very generous, very brave and also possesses the privilege of performing worship and spiritual exercises. His language fluency and knowledge competency is remarkable. In short, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possesses many marvels and virtues and enjoys a prominent and unique status in them. Let’s have the privilege of attaining some blessings by listening about his blessed life.

His name and appellation

His name is Sayyiduna ‘Ali Bin ‘Abi Taalib’ and Kunyah ‘Abul Hasan’ and also ‘Abu Turraab’. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the son of the Beloved Rasool’s paternal uncle, Abu Taalib. The name of his mother is Sayyidatuna Fatimah Bint-e-Asad Bin Haashim رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She embraced Islam, migrated and passed away in Madinah. (Ma’rifat-us-Sahabah, vol. 1, pp. 95)

His conversion to Islam

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam at a very young age. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم embraced Islam he was 8 or 10 years old.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 28, pp. 434)

His brotherhood relationship

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had been the apple of the eye of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم since his childhood. He was brought up by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One of his qualities is that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is not only the cousin of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also declared him as his brother in the blessed Madinah.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم established brotherhood among his blessed companions in sacred Madinah, Maula ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم came with tears

rolling down his eyes and said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم! You have established brotherhood among all the companions but you have not made me a brother of anyone?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘ اَ نۡتَ اَخِيۡ فِيۡ الدُّنۡيَا وَ الۡاٰخِرَ ةِ i.e. (O Ali) you are my brother in the world and also in the Hereafter .’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 401, Hadees 3741)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a great status and rank Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has that being affectionate to him the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him his brother in Islam. It does not end here, but rather the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned such a glory and greatness of him that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has declared that loving him (Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) is to love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and incurring his enmity is to incur the enmity of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Enemy of ‘Ali is the enemy of Allah

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Salamah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ مَنْ اَحَبَّ عَلِیًّا فَقَدْ اَحَبَّنِیْ وَ مَنْ اَحَبَّنِیْ فَقَدْ اَحَبَّ اللہ ’ i.e. the one who loves ‘Ali loves me and the one who loves me, loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . ‘ وَمَنْ اَبْغَضَ عَلِیّاً فَقَدْ اَبْغَضَنِیْ وَمَنْ اَبْغَضَنِیْ فَقَدْ اَبْغَضَ اﷲَ ’ i.e. the one who bears malice towards ‘Ali bears malice towards me and the one who bears malice towards me, bears malice towards Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 23, pp. 380, Hadees 901)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘ مَنْ سَبَّ عَلِیًّا فَقَدْ سَبَّنِیْ ’ i.e. the one who spoke ill of ‘Ali indeed spoke ill of me. (Sunan-ul-Kubra, vol. 5, pp. 133, Hadees 8476)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees it has become obvious that Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ was so close to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that whoever becomes rude and disrespects ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, is deemed as rude and disrespectful to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to respect all the blessed companions and Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-

Murtada, the lion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and develop their glory and greatness in the bottom of our heart!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

جس کسی کا میں ہوں مولٰی اس کے مولٰی ہیں علی

ہے یہ قولِ مُصطَفٰے مولٰی علی مشکل کُشا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to booklet ‘Miraculous Wonders of Sayyiduna ‘Ali

Dear Islamic brothers! It will be very useful to study the booklet ‘Karamat Shayr-e-Khuda’ [Miraculous Wonders of Sayyiduna ‘Ali] published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah in order to develop the glory and dignity of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada, follow his footsteps and study his blessed life. This booklet contains many miracles performed by Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, Bayan of his scholarly and practical virtues, reward for loving him and punishment for bearing malice towards him, important information about the glory and greatness of blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, answers to the questions about asking for help from anyone other than Allah, etc. So buy this booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it. Also persuade other Islamic brothers to study it and make intention to distribute this booklet after buying it as per your financial ability in a large number.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Scholarly status of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada’s personal and moral traits, good manners, manner of living a life, yearning and passion for worshipping day and night, his piety and abstinent, his intense scholarly services and such other countless traits and marvels are attached to

his great blessed personality. His scholarly achievements are extremely surprising and astonishing. Renowned Islamic jurisprudents and great Muftis used to depend on him regarding the knowledge.

Further, due to this knowledge his glory and greatness were very well noted and renowned amongst Fuqaha-e-Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Of course! His status and rank were very elevated even before blessed companions. Let’s have the privilege of listening to the sayings of some blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم about his scholarly brilliance.

Scholarly status before the blessed companions

Sayyiduna ‘ Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: Whenever we asked about a ruling from Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ we always got the correct answer.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: The residents of Madinah would get ‘ Ali Bin Abi Taalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to decide their cases.

Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Amongst the blessed companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم there was no one except Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who used to say, ‘Ask me whatever you need to ask’. (Asad-ul-Ghaabah, vol. 4, pp. 109)

Similarly, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada’s great scholarly ability and competence on Shar’i rulings can be judged by the fact that once before the great female Islamic scholar, Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا who had been holding the post of Ifta permanently since the time of the Khilafat of his respected father Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and who had great expertise in the knowledge of Quran, inheritance, medicine, Halal and Haraam, poetry, sayings of Arab, genealogy, etc., someone talked about Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ so she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said that ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ possesses the most knowledge of Hadees.

(Tareekh-ul-Khulafa, pp. 171)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the light of these sayings of blessed companions it has been understood that everyone acknowledged that Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم had great intelligence and outstanding ability to understand the situations. Second caliph Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was himself a very expert judge or rather the first judge of Ummah who formally laid the foundation of the system of appointing judges in cities in order to settle the disputes and disagreements between people. (Al-Awaa`il lil-‘Askari, pp. 357)

Despite being so great judge in his age of Khilafat he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sometimes did not take any decision without the presence of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . On one occasion, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated in the following words about the status and the rank of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: ‘ عَلِیٌّ اَقْضَانَا ’ i.e. Sayyiduna Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the chief judge amongst us. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 6, Hadees 21143)

Declaring him the chief judge the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself has stated: Amongst my Ummah the chief judge is ‘Ali Bin Abi Taalib.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 154)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The outstanding ability of deciding the case and the high status Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had over all the judges of the era of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ can be understood by the fact that about the method of solving the cases which used to be brought to Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ from time to time it is stated on page 308 of a book Faizan-e-Farooq-e-A’zam, volume 2 published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Sometimes Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would solve the complicated problems himself in consultation with the great blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, but sometimes it also happened that despite making all sorts of efforts, a problem would remain unsolved. For this difficult situation, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had appointed a special judge in his court who we

call today Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Maula ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Whenever such a problem would arise, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would call him and mention the problem to him, then Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would solve it. (Faizan-e-Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 2, pp. 308)

Sometimes Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم would solve extremely difficult cases in such an easy way that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would appreciate him. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it.

Importance of Maula Mushkil Kusha before Farooq-e-A’zam

Once a woman who was declared a criminal in the light of Shar’i witnesses and evidences, was brought before Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, so Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ announced the decision for her as per Shari’ah, but by chance he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ could not pay his attention to a special aspect of the case. When Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ paid attention to this aspect, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took his decision back and said: ‘ لَوْ لَا عَلِیٌّ لَھَلَکَ عُمَرُ ’ If Sayyiduna ‘Ali had not been there, ‘Umar would have been destroyed. (Al-Istee’aab, vol. 3, pp. 206)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid after listening to the foregoing parable we start speculating about religious rulings and tell people about the rulings by guessing or start settling their disputes or cases by using our own assumptions in religious matters. Remember! This is the job of only Islamic scholars and jurisprudents, therefore, we should seek guidance from Islamic scholars and blessed Muftis at all cost as per the Madani thought given to us by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop greatness for the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in our heart, we must perform abundant virtuous deeds by following in their footsteps, improve our manners and make our conversation and character pure and excellent and make our grave and the Hereafter better, we must associate ourselves with the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the 12 Madani activities is to submit the booklet of ‘Madani In’amaat’.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The sacred month of Ramadan is going on. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has declared the month of Ramadan to be the ‘month of Madani In’amaat’. If we could only become the one who strictly acts upon the Madani In’amaat and attain the steadfastness so that we never become lazy in acting upon Madani In’amaat, observing Fikr-e-Madinah and submitting the booklet of Madani In’amaat! All the Islamic brothers should try to buy the Madani In’amaat booklets for 12 months in advance in the sacred month of Ramadan.

Madani In’amaat is, in fact, an easy and effective way to have self-accountability of our deeds. It is called Fikr-e-Madinah in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی did not only have self-accountability of their deeds, but they would also give people the mind-set to think about the Hereafter. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Weigh your deeds before they are weighed and have your self-accountability before you will be called to account. Undoubtedly, it is easier for you than the accountability of the Judgment Day and get ready for the big hearing. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 88, Raqm 135)

Great news for practitioners of Madani In’amaat

An Islamic brother from Zamzam Nagar Hyderabad (Bab-ul-Islam Sindh) has said: One night of the month of Rajab-ul-Murajjab, 1426 AH, I had the privilege of seeing the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in dream. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The one who will observe Fikr-e-Madinah about Madani In’amaat regularly in this month, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive him.

خوب خدمت سنّتوں کی رات دن کرتے رہو

تم رسالہ مدنی انعامات کا بھرتے رہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The sacred month of Ramadan is showering its blessings and mercy upon us. In this month, where some pious people’s ‘Urs is celebrated and their remembrance is done, the birth day of a pious bondman and an intimate saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also celebrated who is known to the world by the name of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . His reputation and greatness are acknowledged from the bottom of the heart. Let’s listen about him with reference to his birth day in the sacred month of Ramadan.

Introduction to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه was born on the 26 th of Ramadan, 1369 AH (1950 AD) in Karachi, Pakistan. His forefathers lived in the village of Kutyanah in Junagadh, India. His grandfather, ‘Abdur Raheem was renowned for his virtues and exemplary character. His parents migrated to Pakistan, after independence [from the British rule]. They initially lived in Hyderabad, Bab-ul-Islam [Sindh, Pakistan] but later moved to Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi and since then he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has been living in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi).

His passion for Islamic knowledge

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had a deep yearning to gain Islamic knowledge. That’s why he had gained Islamic knowledge in his youth. The sources to gain Islamic knowledge were books and the company of Islamic scholars, specifically the grand Mufti of Pakistan, Shaykh Mufti Waqaruddin

Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه continuously attained blessings from him for twenty-two years and then the time also came when the grand Mufti of Pakistan blessed Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه with the honour of being his Khalifah [spiritual successor] and permission.

His daily routine

He is famous for punctuality of time and steadfastness. He continuously offers Salah with Jama’at and takes care of Sunnah and manners all the time. He usually likes to wear simple and white dress without being ironed, and also wears a green ‘Imamah of small size on his head. He is very active in the matters of reforming people. He never keeps quite if he finds someone else performing an act that is contrary to Shari’ah or Sunnah, but rather he immediately reforms him in a very polite and loving manner.

In this critical age, due to having no tendency towards Islamic knowledge and no awareness of Islamic rulings and having everyone’s attention to only worldly knowledge ignorance is becoming widespread everywhere. Under such adverse conditions, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه had been busy serving Islam day and night and then he laid the foundation of a great and global, non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami in 1401, AH (1981). Surely Madani revolution is taking place in the life of those who are associated with him. People are repenting of their sins and performing virtuous deeds. Therefore, we should associate ourselves with Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and try to accomplish the following Madani aim given to us by him: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Khuddam-ul-Masajid

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is also ‘a Masjid-constructing movement’ along with Sunnah-inspiring non-political ‘Masjid-filling movement’. This Madani movement is determined to make every child

of Ummah Salah-offering and devotee of Rasool. It wants the Salah-offering people to come to Masajid regularly and blessed Sunnah to be practised everywhere.

In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, new Masajid are also under construction along with populating Masajid with Salah-offering people. Further at present, under the supervision of Majlis Khuddam-ul-Masajid, hundreds of Masajid are under construction; hundreds of Masajid have been constructed in which all five-time Salah are being offered on time, the Holy Quran and Salat and Salam are also being recited. We should also include our contribution according to our financial ability towards the expenses of under-construction Masajid along with our utmost efforts to fill the Masajid with Salah-offering people. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to spend money generously in His path عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of Salam

1. It is Sunnah to say Salam when meeting a Muslim.

Ninety mercies descend upon the one who takes the lead in Salam and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

One receives 10 virtues for saying (اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمْ), 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ ﴾ is further added, 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ ﴾ is also added.

The person who takes the lead in saying Salam is free from arrogance.

The person one who takes the lead in saying Salam is close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The best words of Salam are (اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ) i.e., may peace be upon you, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

The best words for the reply to Salam are as follows ﴿ وَعَلَیْـکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ ﴾ i.e., and may peace be upon you too, and mercies and blessings descend from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Derived from: Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 409)

It is Wajib [obligatory] to reply to Salam immediately in a voice audible to the one who greeted you with Salam.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

