اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Obedience to Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ صَلَّی عَلَیَّ فِیْ یَوْمٍ اَلْفَ مَرَّۃٍ لَمْ یَمُتْ حَتَّی یَرٰی مَقْعَدَہُ مِنَ الْجَنَّۃِ ’ Whoever recites Salat upon me a thousand times a day, he will not die until he sees his abode in Heaven. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 326, Hadees 2590)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are the sinful bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and are the devotees of His Beloved Rasool. The aim of our life is to act upon and to obey the commandments declared by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is Fard for every Muslim to act upon and to obey the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This is because our success in the world as well as in the Hereafter depends upon obeying them. We will listen about the same important Madani pearls during the Sunnah-inspiring Bayan in Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Ijtima’.

Did not pick up the gold ring?

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a person wearing a gold ring. Removing that ring, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم threw it away and said, ‘Does anyone among you wants to keep a red-hot coal of fire in his hand?’ After the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم left, people said to that person, ‘Pick up your ring and benefit from it (by selling it).’ He replied, ‘No! When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has thrown it away, then by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will never pick it up.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 123, Hadees 4358)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen how obedient the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Had that companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ wanted, he could have picked up the ring and used it; but his devout passion for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not agree to the fact that something that was disliked by the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and was thrown away by him should be picked up again.

Dear Islamic brothers! Being obedient means obeying orders, obeying someone. Indeed, every Muslim should be obedient to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while following in the footsteps of the blessed companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . We shall refrain from the things that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden us from and always perform those activities that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has commanded us to perform; because obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is Wajib (compulsory) upon the Muslims. It is stated in Ayah 1 of Surah Al-Anfaal, part 9:

وَ اَطِیْعُوا اللّٰهَ وَ رَسُوْلَهٗۤ اِنْ كُنْتُمْ مُّؤْمِنِیْنَ(۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And obey Allah and the Messenger; if you believe. (Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 1)

Renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The difference between the obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is obeyed only in His commandments, not

in His acts, but the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be obeyed in three things:

1. The acts which were performed by him.

2. In his mentioned blessed sayings and

3. the act which was performed in front of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not forbid it.

That is to say, whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, we must agree to it; whatever the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed himself should also be followed and whatever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw someone do but did not forbid him from it, should also be followed.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: It should not be derived from the commandment of obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not obeyed, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will suffer a loss; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has fulfilled his glorious duty of matchless preaching with a greatest perfection, now the consequences for not following or not obeying the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be upon you.

(Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 66; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded humans to obey Him and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for living their lives and attaining success in this world and the Hereafter. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also given them the choice that by acting upon His commandments, they may become His obedient bondmen and enjoy the everlasting blessings of Paradise or by committing His disobedience, they may become deserving of the Hell. Therefore, to attain success in this world and in the Hereafter, we should adopt the clean and pure blessed character of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which is better for us because the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the best model of practice for us. Therefore, it is stated in Ayah 21 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 21:

لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِیْ رَسُوْلِ اللّٰهِ اُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed for you, following the Messenger of Allah is best. (Part 21, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 21)

In the Tafseer book Noor-ul-‘Irfan, regarding this blessed Ayah, Renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: We came to know that the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a blessed role model for all the humans, leaving no field of life and it could also mean that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made the blessed life of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the model of His Power. A craftsman applies all his skills on the sample. It has become obvious to us that a successful life is the one which is spent following his footsteps. If we live, die, sleep and awaken by acting upon the guiding principles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then all these acts will become the acts of worship. (Noor-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 671)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have come to know that the blessed life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the role model for us. Therefore, as a Muslim and a true slave, it is compulsory for us to obey and follow the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in all matters and live our lives by strictly acting upon the blessed Sunnah of the Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, as this is the only source of our salvation. In this regard, let’s listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. مَنۡ اَطَاعَنِيۡ دَخَلَ الۡجَنَّةَ وَمَنۡ عَصَانِيۡ فَقَدۡ اَبٰي: i.e. One who obeyed my commandment, entered Paradise and the one who disobeyed me has become the one who denies. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 499, Hadees7280)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: None amongst you can become a perfect believer until his desire becomes subservient to what I have brought. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 154, Hadees 167)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, changing yourself (internally and apparently) according to Islam while obeying the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم holds numerous benefits. Therefore, we should live our lives by obeying and acting upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after carefully studying the blessed sayings, acts, manners and blessed biography of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would try to act upon every Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, even the things that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not command them to do, those were also followed by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

Would smile while talking

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Darda رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that whenever Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would speak, he would smile. I humbly said, ‘Leave this habit, otherwise people will start thinking of you as insane.’ Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said, ‘Whenever I saw or heard the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم speaking, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would smile.’ (Hence with the intention of acting upon this Sunnah, I also do so.) (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 171, Hadees 21791)

پتلی پتلی گُلِ قُدس کی پتیاں اُن لبوں کی نزاکت پہ لاکھوں سلام

جس کی تسکیں سے روتے ہوئے ہنس پڑیں اس تبسُّم کی عادت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Choice of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is my choice

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that a tailor invited the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, (Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ says): I also joined the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The tailor placed Roti (bread) and curry of the blessed gourd and meat before the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I saw the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم eating the blessed gourd from the pot after searching for it (after relating this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said while mentioning his own practice): ‘ فَلَمۡ اَزَلۡ اُحِبُّ الدُّبَّاءَ مِنۡ يَوۡمِئِذٍ ’, i.e. since that day, I like the blessed gourd. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 17, Hadees 2092)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What great passion the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and what great yearning they had to adopt every blessed practice of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Look at the state of their devotional love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that whatever Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would like, they would also make it a part of their liking too. So what would be the state of obedience upon the matters that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would command for? In this relation, let’s listen to a few beautiful parables about the obedience of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah’s practice upon the blessed saying of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Once a beggar came to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave him a piece of Roti. Then a well-dressed person came, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave him food after having him seated. People asked the reason for the different treatments. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said, ‘The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ اَنۡزِلُو النَّاسَ مَنَازِلَهُمۡ ’, treat every person according to his status. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 343, Hadees 4842)

Types of hospitality and its requirements

Dear Islamic brothers! From this action of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, we have come to know that hospitality to people and their respect and reverence should be shown according to their status and rank. Every guest should be treated according to his status. Some guests stay for only an hour or two and leave after having tea etc., and for some guests, special arrangements for meal have to be made; there are some guests whom we invite ourselves to the wedding ceremonies, ‘Aqeeqahs, etc., in which equal arrangements for sitting and serving food without differentiating between poor and rich should be made. It shall not be the case that the rich and affluent people enjoy very luxurious meals in an awe-inspiring manner whereas poor and middle-class people are served with ordinary food. This shall not be done at all as it hurts the feelings of Muslims.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Worse food is the food of that Valimah in which rich people are invited leaving the poor people out. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 455, Hadees 5177) Some guests are sisters, brothers or close relatives who come to stay for a few days, they should also be provided with hospitality.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The one who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Day of Judgement should respect and revere the guest; one day and night is his Jaa`eezah (i.e. he should provide him with warm hospitality, get a very formal meal cooked for him according to his ability) and hospitality is for three days (i.e. after one day, whatever is present at home should be offered) and after three days, it is Sadaqah. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 136, Hadees 6135)

Regarding taking care of the status of people, this fact should also be kept in mind that if the guest is a righteous and ascetic person or an Islamic scholar or a spiritual guide, then he should be provided with hospitality according to his glory and greatness. If a religious personality has to be invited to a ceremony, then he should be invited after thinking carefully whether this ceremony is worthy of his honour or not. For example, in a wedding ceremony etc., where vulgar dancing and music is on display, inviting an Islamic scholar or a religious person to such ceremony is a great insult to his status. That’s why, we shall treat guests according to their ranks and treat every Muslim well because due to the blessings of treating Muslims well, not only affection develops among one another, but it also gives goodness of both the worlds besides developing the passion for acting upon the Sunnah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The way blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم loved the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would act upon the blessed sayings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم wholeheartedly, similarly, the blessed Sahabiyyat رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ also had full passion and determination to obey the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They would also definitely act upon the blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم out of his love.

Madani veil and Madrasah Baalighan and Balighat

One way of implementing the Shar’i veil at home is also to associate our family members with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Send them to Dawat-e-Islami’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ for Islamic sisters held in your area. Qaariyah Islamic sisters teach فیِ ْسَبِیْلِ اللہ to Madani (female) children Hifz-o-Naazirah of the Holy Quran free of cost in Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, Islamic sisters teach mature Islamic sisters Holy Quran, Salah, Du’as and rulings related to Islamic sisters etc., فیِ ْسَبِیْلِ اللہ (free of cost) in their homes collectively.

Through the internet in Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat Online, Islamic sisters teach Holy Quran with correct pronunciation to Islamic sisters and edify them according to the Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, more or less in 65 countries, (male and female) students are acquiring the education of the Holy Quran through the internet.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the number of the male students studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is 89,043 and female students studying in Madrasa-tul-Madina Balighat is 63,000.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Islamic brothers should also attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and the weekly Madani Muzakarah watched collectively from beginning to end. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessings of this, they will develop a mind-set to obey the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, protect themselves from sins and act upon the commandments of Shari’ah.

“Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Another great source of refraining from sins and acting upon the commandments of Shar’iah is to associate yourselves with the

Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and take part in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Remember! Teaching or studying in “Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan” is also one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one has the privilege of reciting the whole Glorious Quran correctly.

٭ Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is a great source of learning necessary rulings of Salah, Wudu, Ghusl etc.

٭ Due to the blessings of joining Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains good company.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the privilege of studying and teaching the Holy Quran.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the treasure of the Islamic knowledge.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one attains the privilege of acting upon the Madani In’amaat.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one gets the opportunity to adopt a good character.

٭ Due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan, one gets the reward of staying in the Masjid.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of the blessing of studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan and sway with joy.

Attained salvation from the habit of unlawful gazing

One Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) had the habit of watching indecent films, and indulged in unlawful gazing before associating himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. He didn’t have a mindset of being punctual in offering Salah either. One Islamic brother made individual efforts upon him and invited him to join Madrasa-tul-Madinah (Baalighan).

He started studying in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, due to the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, he became punctual in attending the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’. Moreover, he became punctual in offering Salah by becoming the disciple of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and started delivering Dars in the Masjid. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he abandoned the sins, unlawful gazing etc., and is engaged in performing individual efforts upon his household too in order to make them punctual in offering Salah as well.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Get married

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had such a passion for the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they would follow every command of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Therefore, Sayyiduna Rabee’ah Aslami رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that I had the privilege of serving the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One day, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘O Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I do not want to get married because firstly, I do not have sufficient wealth and means to fulfil the needs of a woman and secondly, I do not like the fact that anything takes me away from you.’

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم avoided me and I continued to serve him. After some time, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said again, ‘Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I do not want to get married as firstly, I do not have sufficient wealth and means to fulfil the needs of a woman and secondly, I do not like the fact that anything takes me away from you.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم avoided me, but then I thought that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knows better than me as to what is better for me in this world and the Hereafter. Now if the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم says this to me, I will say, ok, Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, command me whatever you like.

Therefore, when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said for the third time, ‘Rabee’ah, why don’t you get married?’ I humbly said, ‘Why not.’ Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, naming a tribe of the Ansaar, told me to go to them and say to them that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has sent me to get me married with so-and-so woman. Therefore, I went and conveyed the message of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to them. They gave me a warm welcome and started saying, ‘The bearer of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should not return without carrying out his task.’ Then they performed my Nikah with that woman, treated me with extreme kindness and did not ask me for any proof either. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 5, pp. 569, Hadees 16577)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the passion of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم for obeying the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that they did not even ask for any proof in the very sensitive matter like marriage and only upon hearing the blessed message of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they married their daughter to Sayyiduna Rabee’ah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . From this parable, we derive the Madani pearl that whoever we get our children married to should be a person who offers Salah, observes Siyam, is pious and ascetic and practices the Sunnah, irrespective of being poor. But Alas! In our society, only beauty, wealth and worldly status are considered before getting married and such marriages often become the cause of ruining the peace of the home. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the character of the person when deciding about the marriage. The Greatest and Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who performed Nikah with a woman due to her dignity, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his humiliation; the one who performed Nikah due to [the greed of] a woman’s wealth, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his poverty; the one who performed Nikah due to the family honour of the woman, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase his meanness; and the one who performed Nikah only for the reason of protecting his eyes, private parts, or treating his relatives well, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give blessings for him in the woman and give blessings in the man for the woman.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 18, Hadees 2342)

Therefore, instead of gaining wealth and worldly benefits, we should keep in view the piety and religious mindset, and perform marriage among good

(religious) people. Moreover, we should obey the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in all matters to make our worldly life and the Hereafter better. While setting an example of the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم ended all those useless customs of the [pre-Islamic] era of ignorance which had been practised for a long time.

If only! For the sake of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, we could get the passion for the obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! If only! Instead of mere lip service, we could practically become true devotees of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Finance Department

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop a Madani mind-set of abiding by the Shar’iah, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and engage in serving Sunnahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is engaged in spreading call towards righteousness across the globe through its more or less 104 departments. “Finance Department” is also one of these departments. Finance Department was established to preserve, keep record of and spend the Madani donations gathered as Sadaqat-e-Wajibah like Zakah, Fitrahs, ‘Ushr; and Sadaqat-e-Naafilah like the donations received for Masajid and Madaris, Jami’aat, Langer Razawiyyah and Langer Ghausiyyah etc., according to the Shar’i rulings and requirements.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Maktaba-tul-Madinah has also published the booklets ‘ Questions and Answers about Donations ’ and ‘ Islamic and Organizational Precautions about Collecting Donations ’ for the Shar’i guidance of those Islamic brothers and sisters who collect the Madani donations. May Allah Almighty bless further progression and blessings to the “Finance Department”!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

For which acts obedience is must?

Dear Islamic brothers! Obeying the command of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is called ‘Itaa’at-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ (obedience to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Obedience includes every such act which has been commanded to be refrained from; and also includes those acts which have been commanded to be performed. The way offering Salah, giving Zakah, observing Sawm and other virtuous acts are necessary, similarly, it is also necessary to refrain from the sins like lying, backbiting, tale-telling and listening to music etc. But alas! Due to being distanced away from Deen, Muslims have given up obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Perhaps this is the reason why sins are becoming prevalent in society. The heart-breaking scenes of not practicing the Deen, depravity and going against the Sunnah are found everywhere. Various sins like missing Salah, abusing and swearing, blaming, slandering, ill-suspicions, backbiting, remaining busy in finding people’s faults, spreading people’s faults all around upon knowing them, lying upon every matter, usurping other’s wealth unjustly, making false promises, being intoxicated by films, dramas, music and songs, daringly dealing with interest and bribery, disobeying parents, arrogance and pride, jealousy, ostentation, and bearing malice etc., are common and prevalent in our society.

Remember! Death will one day cut off our living connection and make us sleep on the soil of the grave lifting us from our comfortable rooms and soft beds. Having remorse at that time will be of no use. Therefore, acting upon the saying “ Value life before death”, appreciating the time we have, repent sincerely from sins and spend time in carrying out good deeds. Let us now listen to 8 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to develop the passion for obeying the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

8 Sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing excellences

1. The most favourite act to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is to offer Salah on its stipulated time and to be dutiful and good to your parents.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 18, Hadees 196)

2. The most favourite act to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after the Faraaid is to enter happiness into the heart of an Islamic brother.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 19, Hadees 200)

3. The most favourite house to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the one in which orphan is treated with respect. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 20, Hadees 219)

4. No one can offer better benefit to his Muslim brother than if he receives something good, then he conveys it to his brother.

(Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, pp. 62, Hadees 158)

5. Keep holding your tongue except for good things. This way, you will overcome Satan. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 341, Raqm 29)

6. The perfect one among the Mu`mins [believers] is the one who is best in manners among them, and the best person amongst you is the one who is better in the matters of his family members.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 278, Raqm 2621)

7. The one who sees any fault of his brother and conceals it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him enter Paradise by the virtue of him concealing the fault.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vo. 17, pp. 288, Raqm 795)

8. The one who suffered a physical or financial trouble and then concealed it and did not reveal it to people, then it is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to forgive him. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 214, Hadees 737)

7 Blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing admonitions

Refraining from those sins which the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has condemned and commanded us to refrain from is also obedience to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In this relation, let’s listen to 7 blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. There are two such people upon whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not have mercy on the Day of Judgement, the one who breaks ties [with his relatives] and a bad neighbour. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 17, Hadees 162)

2. Refrain from oppression! As it is among the darkness of the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 15, Hadees 136)

3. Obscene speech results from hard-heartedness and hard-heartedness is in the fire. (Sunan-ut-Tirmiżi, vol. 3, pp. 406, Hadees 2016)

4. Abstain from those who bear malice because malice destroys the Deen (religion). (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 3, pp. 28, Hadees 5486)

5. The Muslim who breaches promise, upon him is the curse of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the angels and all the human beings. Neither any of his Fard will be accepted and nor any Nafl. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 370, Hadees 3179)

6. One who harms a Mu`min [believer] or deceives him is accursed. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 378, Hadees 148)

7. Whoever makes his brother feel ashamed for a sin which he has already repented from, then he will not die until he himself does not indulge in that very sin. (Jami’ Tirmiżi, vol. 4, pp. 226, Hadees 2513)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also succeed in acting upon the abovementioned blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our lives will also be reformed with virtuous deeds and we will rid ourselves of a sinful life. Let’s make good intentions of offering all five Salahs with Jama’at, treating our parents and all Muslims well, pleasing Muslims and refraining from hurting them, being kind to orphans, providing Madani edification to our household according to our capability, telling good things to Muslims, concealing their faults, and showing patience upon troubles.

Moreover, let’s make the intention of abstaining from oppression and injustice, obscene conversation, malice and hatred, cheating, breaking of promises etc., ourselves as well as اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ protecting others too. In addition to this, read two books of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, named ‘ Jannat mayn lay Jaanay walay

A’maal’ and ‘ Jahannam mayn lay Jaanay walay A’maal’ . In order to attain steadfastness and being inclined towards performing good deeds, make it your habit to travel for 3 days with a Madani Qafilah every month and act upon the Madani In’amaat as well.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Few Sunnahs and manners of sitting

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of sitting from the book ‘ Sunnatayn aur Adaab ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ Sit with your buttocks on the floor, with both of your knees up and having your arms wrapped around them whilst holding one hand in the other. Sitting like this is Sunnah (but it is better to wrap your knees with a shawl while sitting like this). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 378)

٭ Sitting cross-legged is also proved by Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم .

٭ Do not sit where there is sunshine and shade as well. The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said, ‘When any of you is in shade and the shade then moves away, leaving him partially in the sunshine and partially in shade, then he should stand up from there.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 344, Hadees 4821)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of sitting will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 15 November 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Few Sunnahs and manners of sitting

٭ Sit facing the Qiblah. (Rasaail ‘Attariyyah, part, 2, pp. 229)

٭ Sitting on the seats of pious people is against the etiquette. A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: One should not sit on the seat of his teacher and spiritual guide even in their absence. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 369, 424)

٭ Try not to let your back face towards pious saints while sitting or standing, and the legs must not be straightened out towards them at all.

٭ Whenever you come to any congregation or Majlis, do not come crossing over other people, sit where you get room.

٭ When sitting, take off your shoes, your feet will get comfort.

(Al-Jami-us-Sagheer, pp. 40, Hadees 554)

٭ When you get free from a Majlis, recite [the following] Du’a three times, sins will be forgiven and the Islamic brother who recites this Du’a in the Majlis of goodness and the Majlis of Zikr, goodness will be stamped for him. Du’a is as follows:

سُبْحَانَكَ اللّٰھُمَّ وَ بِحَمْدِكَ لَا اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اَنْتَ اَسْتَغْفِرُكَ وَ اَتُوْبُ اِلَیْكَ

Translation: You are Pure and O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! All praise is for You. There is no Almighty except You. I seek forgiveness from You and I repent to You.

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 347, Hadees 4857)

٭ Standing up in the reverence of any practicing scholar, pious person, Sayyid Sahib or parents is an act of reward.

A great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: Upon the arrival of pious people, both these acts, i.e. standing in reverence and welcoming them, are permissible. It is also the Sunnah of Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and even Sunnat-e-Qawli of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم . (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 370)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of drinking milk

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a of ‘ drinking milk ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اَللّٰہُمَّ بَارِكْ لَنَا فِیْہِ وَ زِدْنَا مِنْہ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Give blessing in this for us and bless us with it more. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 283, Hadees 3466)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

