Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Foul Smell of Lying

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

مَنْ سَرَّہُ اَنْ یَلْقَی اللّٰہَ غَدً ا رَاضِیًا، فَلْیُکْثِرِ الصَّلاۃَ عَلَیَّ

I.e. the one who likes that Allah Almighty be pleased with him when he is presented in the court of Allah Almighty, then he shall recite Durood upon me in abundance. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 284, Hadees 6083)

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Lying is a major sin, Haraam, and an act that leads towards the Hell. Today, let us listen to the Ayahs, Ahadees and admonitory parables condemning lying. Firstly, listen to an admonitory account.

Woman trying to possess land unjustly turned blind

A woman named Arwa disputed with Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ regarding some part of his house. He رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: Give this piece of land to her. I heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying, ‘The one who takes even a hand span of land unjustly, he will be made to wear a garland of seven earths on the Day of Judgement.’ After this, he رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ supplicated, ‘O Allah Almighty! If she is lying, then make her blind and make her grave in the same very house.’

The narrator states: I saw that woman had turned blind. She used to look for walls by touching them from her hands and used to say, ‘I have been made to face the curse of Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .’ Finally, one day, she fell in the well while walking in the home and died, and the same well became her grave. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 669, Hadees 4133)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that what devastative consequences lying possesses? As what a painful and admonitory death a woman faced due to lying. Remember! Allah Almighty has blessed humans with countless blessings. Out of them, one great bounty is “tongue”. Apparently, it’s only a small piece of flesh, but it is a great blessing of Allah Almighty. Its positive use can make one enter Paradise and wrong use can make one enter Hell. If someone uses her tongue to recite the blessed Kalimah-e-Tayyibah with sincerity, then Paradise becomes Wajib for her.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: “The one who said ‘ لَاۤ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللّٰہُ ’ will enter Paradise, and Paradise will become Wajib for him.”

(Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 356, Hadees 7713)

If the same tongue is used to disobey Allah Almighty, then it is a means of a great calamity. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: “Majority of a man’s sins are committed through his tongue.”

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 240, Hadees 4933)

Lying is also one of the ways of evil use of tongue. A liar not only becomes disgraced among people by losing her trust in them, but even angels do not come close to such person. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘When a person lies, then angel distances a mile away due to its foul smell.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 392, Hadees 1979)

Foul smell emanating from a liar’s mouth

Sayyiduna Imam ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: When a believer lies without a [Shar’i] reason, then something possessing foul smell emanates from his mouth. To the extent that it reaches ‘Arsh. ‘Arsh-bearing angels curse him, 80,000 angels along with them curse him and 80 sins are written in his account. The smallest of those sins is like the mount Uhud. (Bustan-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 61)

It is stated in the blessed Fatawa Razawiyyah: “Lying and backbiting are inner diseases. Therefore, a foul odour is produced from the mouth of a liar. Angels that protect him distance themselves from him. Likewise, it is highlighted in a Hadees that the Most Dignified Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم identifying an odour, informed that this is the foul odour from the mouths of those who backbite against Muslims.”

The Muslims should remember this and have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and try their utmost to rid themselves of the habit of lying and backbiting. Else, would anyone like to excrete from their mouth? If we open our inner senses, we would realize that the odour of lying and backbiting is worse than the stench of excrement. (Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 135)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that such severe foul smell emanates from the mouth of a lying person that the angels of Allah’s mercy go a mile away. But we do not feel this smell because our nose gets used to the prevailed foul smell that emanates everywhere due to the excess of lying.

Try to understand it from the following example. When a sewerage is being cleaned, then an ordinary person cannot even stand next to it due to its foul

smell. But a sewerage cleaner does not even notice it because his nose becomes used to its foul smell. Therefore, we should refrain from this bad habit because lying is such an evil practice that weakens one’s Iman [faith]. Frequent lying is a proof for the weakness of Iman. Allah Almighty states in Ayah 105 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14:

اِنَّمَا یَفْتَرِی الْكَذِبَ الَّذِیْنَ لَا یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِاٰیٰتِ اللّٰهِۚ-وَ اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْكٰذِبُوْنَ(۱۰۵)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those who do not believe in Allah’s Verses attribute false allegation, and only they are liars.

Under this Ayah, it is mentioned in Tafseer-e-Khaazin: This Ayah refutes the false accusation of the disbelievers which they accused the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with, that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made Quran by himself. The summary of this Ayah is that lying and slandering are indeed the acts of faithless people. (Tafseer-e-Khaazin, Surah An-Nahl, Taht-al-Ayah: 105, vol. 3, pp. 144)

Renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: This Ayah is a strong proof upon the fact that lying is the biggest sin among all major sins; because only such a person dares to lie and slander who does not believe in the signs of Allah Almighty. Allah Almighty condemning lying in such a way is a very serious warning.

(Tafseer-e-Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 272)

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that the Glorious Quran declares lying to be a habit of faithless people. Indeed, lying is such an evil habit that even the main tribal chiefs in the era of ignorance used to severely hate it and would not like to have a lie associated with them.

When Caesar received the invitation of Islam from the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through a letter, then he called Abu Sufyan in his court (who till then had not become a Muslim but in relation to the lineage, he was very close to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). In order to get an idea regarding the truthfulness of Holy Rasool’s Nubuwwah [Prophethood], Caesar asked various questions to Abu Sufyan regarding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Although Abu Sufyan held enmity against the Holy Rasool

صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at that time due to Kufr [disbelief], but even then he gave honest answers to all the question which Caesar asked him regarding the blessed character of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The only reason why he did not lie to degrade the status of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was that due to lying, the society will call me a liar and this worse of the sins will be associated with me. Therefore, while mentioning the reason for not lying to degrade the status of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and speaking the truth out of compulsion, he himself states: ‘ فَوَ اللہِ لَوْلَا الْحَیَاءُ مِنْ اَنْ یَاثِرُوْا عَلَیَّ کَذِبًا لَکَذَبْتُ عَنْہُ ’ i.e. by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If I did not fear being embarrassed over the fact that people will associate [the act of] lying against me, then I would have lied against the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 10, Hadees 7)

Dear Islamic sisters! This parable proves that people used to severely hate lying even before Islam. That was the only reason why Sayyiduna Abu Sufyan رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not lie about the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that people do not say about him that a dignified chief like Abu Sufyan also lies.

Just ponder that how evil the practice of lying is that it was considered to be evil among people even before Islam. Then why do we not try to refrain from this evil practice despite being Muslims? Whereas, Allah Almighty has commanded us to refrain from it. Allah Almighty says in part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 30:

وَ اجْتَنِبُوْا قَوْلَ الزُّوْرِۙ(۳۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And avoid false speech .

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard that we have been commanded to refrain from lying in the Glorious Quran; because lying is a sign of the weakness of faith [Iman]. Lying is such an epidemic that is spreading rapidly in our society.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! How bad people are those who create separation between husband and wife and relatives by lying. Whereas, Shar’iah loves unity among Muslims so much that it allows one to lie in order to create reconciliation between two Muslims.

Sayyiduna Abu Kaahil رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: There was some dispute between two companions رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, to the extent that they both stopped talking to each other. I met one of them and said: ‘What’s your issue with so and so? I heard him praising you immensely.’ Then I met the other one and said the same to him, to the extent that they both reconciled. Then I thought to myself: ‘I have indeed reconciled both of them, but have destroyed myself (by lying).’ Therefore, I relayed this to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Upon this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘O Abu Kaahil! Do reconcile people, even if you have to lie.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 18, pp. 361, Hadees 927)

Dear Islamic sisters! Lying in order to create fight among Muslims is an extremely evil practice. This spreads mischief among one another and spreads hatred and enmity. Therefore, we shall fear the torment of Allah Almighty and protect ourselves against the destructive evil of lying. Otherwise, one does face disgrace and humility in this world upon being caught for lying, but she can also be subject to face painful torment in the Hereafter. With the intention of abandoning lying and always speaking the truth, let us listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Speaking truth is indeed [an act of] righteousness and [an act of] righteousness leads one to Paradise. And lying is a sin and a sin leads one to the Hell.

(Muslim, pp. 1077, Hadees 6638)

2 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Lying indeed leads towards sin, and sin leads towards the Hell. And undoubtedly, a person keeps lying, to the extent that he becomes an extremely grave liar [in the court of] Allah Almighty.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

3 One person came in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Which action leads

towards the Hell?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Lying. When a person lies, then he commits a sin. And when he commits a sin, then he is ungrateful. And when he is ungrateful, then he enters the Hell.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have heard! How great the habit of truthfulness is that it leads a person to the Paradise. Whereas, lying is such an evil practice that throws a person into the pits of Hell. A liar is inscribed as a grave sinner in the court of Allah Almighty and this evil habit makes a person sinner.

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘A liar becomes a firm transgressor and sinner in future. Lying leads one to [committing] thousands of sins, and it is proven from experience too. The first one to lie was the Satan, as he said to Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم: ‘I am your well-wisher’. He further states: A liar gets trapped into every type of sin and people naturally lose trust in him. People start hating him. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 453)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Lying in order to make people laugh

Dear Islamic sisters! Whether a sin is small or big, wellbeing lies in refraining from it; especially from the [sinful] act of lying, as one lie becomes a means of [committing] various sins. In order to hide one lie, people have to tell various other lies.

But unfortunately, large number of people are trapped in the evil of lying today. Many such occasions come where there is no harm in speaking the truth, but yet people lie there too. For example, in a gathering of a few Islamic sisters, they lie in order to make one another laugh and make the gathering more enjoyable. Let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that condemn lying in order to make people laugh.

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: A person speaks, and does so only to make people laugh, due to it, he falls in such depth of Hell that is even more than the distance between the sky and earth. Undoubtedly, the wrongdoing that one commits through his tongue is severer than the one that he commits through his feet. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 213, Hadees 4832)

2 Woe to him who lies when he speaks so that he makes people laugh through it. Woe to him! Woe to him!

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 142, Hadees 2322)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! There is sheer loss in having useless gatherings, wasting time and telling false stories in order to make others laugh. Because in such gatherings, it becomes extremely difficult to protect your tongue against the sins like useless conversation, backbiting, tale-telling and lying etc.

Suppose, in case one ever has to attend such gathering, then she shall try to refrain from these sins and speak the truth instead of lying. Our righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would never lie. Rather, they would always speak the truth even if the other person did not like it.

Sayyiduna Taa`oos رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the caliph of the time, Hashshaam, and asked him: ‘Hashshaam! How are you?’ He replied furiously: ‘Why did you not address me as “Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen?”’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: ‘Because all the Muslims do not agree with your caliphate. Hence, I feared in case calling you Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen would be deemed as a lie.’ May the Mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ be upon him and may we be forgiven for his sake.

Lying despite having a desire for something

Dear Islamic sisters! One form of lying quite prevalent in our society is also that if an Islamic sister needs something and also wants to acquire it, but when asked whether she wants it, she lies and replies: I do not want it.

Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-‘Umays رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: I humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! If anyone of us desires for something and

says that he doesn’t want it, then would this be considered to be a lie?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Undoubtedly, lying is inscribed as [an act of] lie, to the extent that a small lie is inscribed as a small lie.’

(Ithaf-us-Sadat-il-Muttaqeen, vol. 9, pp. 283)

Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-Yazeed رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: Food was presented in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم presented it to us. We said: ‘We do not desire [for it].’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Do not gather hunger and lying together.’

(Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 26, Hadees 3298)

Madani upbringing of children

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! Lying is an extremely evil practice. We are to refrain from lying ourselves as well as provide our children with such Madani upbringing that they also become familiar with this major sin from their childhood. They should know that what is lying. What are the blessings of speaking the truth? What are the harms of lying? Generally, we lack in providing correct upbringing to our children in various matters because we do not pay much attention to it. In fact, at times, we provide them wrong upbringing in regards to lying.

A question arises here in mind that how come? For example, when the teacher would contact you due to the unauthorised absences of your child from the school, then you would perhaps respond them saying that “ our child is ill since so many days ”, whereas the reason behind the absences would be something else. There are so many such examples where if we do not bring our children up from the aspect of these minor perspectives, then lying could be embedded into their character.

Remember! If they are brought up in a similar fashion, then it is highly likely that when they grow up, they will go astray rather than becoming civilised, because they would know that if “lying” was an evil practice by any means, then our parents would definitely protect us from it as they protected us from other harmful things. They would have protected us against it and educated us regarding it.

Dear Islamic sisters! May we be sacrificed upon the Madani mind-set of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . He is committed in reforming the Ummah by conveying them the call to righteousness from every possible aspect. He keeps blessing people associated with every walk of life with Madani Tarbiyyah [edification] and guiding principles from time to time. Let’s take an example of the same very topic of “lying”. Along with providing Madani Tarbiyyah on this topic through books, booklets and Madani Muzakarahs, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has also given the Muslim Ummah an extremely informative booklet comprising of 44 pages. It is such a booklet that not only provides Madani Tarbiyyah to children but also to elders in a beautiful manner. This booklet is called “ Jhoota Chor ” [The Lying Thief]. This booklet is the fourth booklet of the series “ Bachchaun ki Sachchi Kahaniyan ” [true tales of children]. In this booklet, you will be able to read:

٭ How was the lying thief sentenced?

٭ Who was the lying thief with a bent staff?

٭ How did the children of liars become swine?

٭ In what form would a liar enter Hell?

٭ What is the consequence of relaying a false dream?

٭ How did the truth-speaking shepherd get blessings? How did he survive due to speaking the truth?

٭ 24 examples of kids’ lies.

٭ Useful Madani pearls for everyone, children and elders, etc.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Relaying false dreams

Dear Islamic sisters! Another common form of lying is that some women are habitual of relaying false dreams. Remember! This is also impermissible and sinful act. Blessed Ahadees have strongly condemned it.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The biggest lie is that a person associates himself towards someone else instead of his father, or he claims to have seen something in his dream which he has not, or associates something with the Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) of Allah which he (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) has not said. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 476, Hadees 3509)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: The one who relays a false dream, on the Day of Judgement, he will be punished by being sentenced to tie a knot between two barley seeds, and he will never be able to do so.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 422, Hadees 7042)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We shall refrain from relaying a false dream and asking for its interpretation, as even if the interpretation of a false dream is mentioned, it still takes place. Let’s listen to an admonitory account in this regard.

Consequence of relaying a false dream

A person relayed a dream to Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said: ‘I saw a dream that there is a glass bowl in my hand which also contains water. The bowl actually breaks but water remains as it is.’ Upon hearing this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Fear Allah Almighty (and do not lie), because you have not seen any such dream.’ That person said: ‘ سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰـه! I am relaying a dream to you and you are saying that I have not seen any dream?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘It is indeed a lie. Hence, I am not responsible for the outcome of this lie. If you really have seen this dream, then your wife will give birth to a child. Then she will die and the child will remain alive.’ After this, when he left from there, he said: ‘By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I did not see any such dream.’ Listening to it, somebody said: ‘But he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned the outcome of the dream.’

Sayyiduna Hishaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Not much time had passed since this incident took place that his wife gave birth to a child. Then she passed away and the child remained alive. (Tareekh-e-Dimashq, vol. 53, pp. 232)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! If we spend our lives according to the Islamic principles while adopting truthfulness, honesty, justice, piety and righteousness, looking after each other, selflessness and wishing good for other Islamic sisters, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه there will be a lot of blessings. A great prosperity would prevail across the Islamic society and we would also attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We get worried if we fall ill and start treatment for its cure. If the treatment is not available in our own city or country, then we even travel to the other city or country for the treatment. In short, we make our utmost efforts to get cured from that illness.

Remember! Lying is also a dangerous illness which can become a means of disgrace and humility in this world, and a means of the destruction of the Hereafter. Therefore, refrain from lying and always speak the truth in order to attain the pleasure of Allah Almighty. In order to refrain from lying, let us listen to few cures as well.

Few ways of refraining from lying

٭ In order to refrain from lying, supplicate in the court of Allah Almighty in the following manner: O Allah Almighty! Save us from the curse of lying and in order to attain the blessings of speaking the truth, enable us to always speak the truth.

٭ Read the Ayahs of the Holy Quran, blessed Ahadees and saying of the righteous predecessors that condemn [the act of] lying. In this way, you will develop hatred towards [the act of] lying.

٭ Develop the fear of Allah Almighty in yourself. As if we have the fear of Allah Almighty, then along with other sins, it would become easier for us to refrain from [the sin of] lying as well.

٭ Adopt a good company. As by its virtue, you will develop a mind-set to adopt good habits.

٭ In order to refrain from lying, read the biographies of the righteous predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, as these righteous individuals spent their entire lives according to Shar’iah and whilst following the Sunnah.

٭ Ponder over the consequences of lying. As in what grave consequences liars have to face in this world and the Hereafter. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه, this will also create hatred against lying.

٭ Make it your routine to act upon the Madani In’amaat. By the virtue of it, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه you will develop hatred against the sins like lying, backbiting, tale-telling etc.

٭ Be fully involved in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. By the virtue of it, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه it will become easier to refrain from this evil practice [of lying].

“Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat”, one of the

8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part actively in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also Madrasa-tul-Madinah for Islamic sisters in which the Holy Quran is taught. Arrange at least one Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) in one Zayli Halqah. The target is to have at least 12 Islamic sisters for studying at Madrasa-tul-Madinah. (Duration: maximum 1 hour and 12 minutes).

It can be arranged any time between morning 8 and the Azan of ‘Asr (at a purdah-observing place). Teach them the method of giving Ghusl, making Wudu, offering Salah, Sunnahs, Du’as, Shar’i rulings on women along with the correct recitation of the Holy Quran by looking at the book, namely ‘ Islami Behno ki Namaz ’, published by Maktaba tul Madinah. Thousands of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat [for Islamic sisters] are arranged at different places and in different timings. You are also requested to attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat [for Islamic sisters] for the betterment of the world and the Hereafter.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

Passion for fashion turned into devotion to Sunnah

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi: I was so crazy about western culture that I would wear pants and shirt like boys. I would talk to Na-Mahram males unhesitatingly and would remain in the company of ill-mannered friends. My father used to run a hotel. I was so bold that I would sit at the counter of the hotel despite being prohibited by my father. I used to study at a school. Glory be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I suddenly took an interest in studying at a Madrasah and mentioned it to my father. Seizing the opportunity, he admitted me to Dawat-e-Islami’s Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters). I started learning the Holy Quran.

After a few days, our teacher told us about the annually-held global Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in Multan and persuaded us to visit houses in order to invite other Islamic sisters for the Ijtima’ calling them to righteousness. We spread the invitation to the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ actively and excitedly. I was anxiously waiting for the ‘special session’ of the last day because I had never attended any Ijtima’ before. At last, the day of the Ijtima’ arrived. I attended ‘the special session’ of the annual Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ enthusiastically in which I had the opportunity to listen to the telephonic speech on the topic of ‘ Cure for Sins ’. The speech made me tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . I suddenly realized how flagrantly I was disobeying my Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ and leading a sinful life!

At the end, a heart-rending Du’a was made. When I saw countless weeping Islamic sisters during the Du’a I also started weeping with my heart full of

remorse. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I repented of sins and made a firm intention to get reformed. By the blessing of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, I attended the Ijtima’ which had a profound impact on my heart, inspiring me to associate myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I started observing Islamic veiling and offering Salah regularly. Today, my parents are very pleased with me and grateful to Dawat-e-Islami which has led their daughter who was an epitome of fashion, to the path of Sunnah.

Note: If you have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with teachers and students of (Women) colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progression!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What is April fool?

Dear Islamic sisters! Another form of lying that exists in our society is in the form of April fool which is celebrated on 1 st of April as a festival. Some people enjoy fooling others on this day by telling them fake distressing news and deceiving them in different ways. For example, someone is told:

٭ Your young son is severely injured due to an accident at such and such place and he has been taken into so and so hospital.

٭ So and so relative of yours has passed away.

٭ Your shop has caught fire.

٭ There has been robbery in your shop.

٭ Someone has unjustly taken over your property.

٭ Your car has been stolen.

٭ Your son has been kidnapped for ransom etc.

Then when the truth gets revealed, then they mock the other person by uttering “ April fool, April fool ”. April fool can also be referred to as “ the international day of lying ”. Lying is a sin. You should not lie even as a joke.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: A person cannot be of perfect faith unless he abandons lying when joking and [abandons] quarrelling, even if he is right. (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 290, Hadees 8744)

At the time of April fool one expresses - joy over others’ distresses. This is also a disliked act. Such people should fear that they can also fall prey to face the same circumstances.

Fake news took one’s life

A 70-year old resident of Punjab, Pakistan, received the news that his brother had an accident in Okara and passed away. As he was on his way to Okara hospital, he fell on the ground and passed away due to having a cardiac arrest. It was later found out that some foolish person joked with him on the name of April fool. (Urdu Point, 1 st April 2008)

Alas! Despite having so many evils in April fool, some Muslims imitate non-Muslims and celebrate April fool as a festival on 1 st of April every year. Whereas, the people of past would get astonished if they heard a Muslim lying and would think that how can a Muslim - lie?

It is narrated: A person came in the court of the teacher of the renowned Mogul emperor Aurangzeb ‘Aalamgeer, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said: ‘Huzoor, your wife has become widow.’ Listening to it, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started thinking something in a state of extreme worry. Looking at his anxiousness, a person who was present there said: ‘Huzoor! You are worried for no reason. When you are alive, then how can your wife become widow?’ Upon this, ‘Allamah Ahmad Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: ‘I am not thinking that how did my wife become a widow. I am worried while thinking whether a Muslim can also lie?’

Dear Islamic sisters! First April is just round the corner. It is possible that someone has perhaps already made up a mind that this year, I will fool so and so person by telling her so and so lie. Let’s straightaway sincerely repent in the court of Allah Almighty from all our sins, especially lying, that we will neither tell lie or make someone tell a lie اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Lying is not a practice of Muslims. Therefore, try to adopt the habit of always speaking the truth. No matter how tough situation once faces in her life, no matter how severe a calamity one gets trapped in, but yet she shall never lie. Rather, always remain steadfast on speaking the truth as there are various virtues of speaking the truth. Those who speak truth in this world, Allah Almighty will bless them with innumerable rewards on the Day of Judgement. Allah Almighty states in part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 119:

هٰذَا یَوْمُ یَنْفَعُ الصّٰدِقِیْنَ صِدْقُهُمْؕ-لَهُمْ جَنّٰتٌ تَجْرِیْ مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ- رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُؕ-ذٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِیْمُ(۱۱۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘This (Qiyamah) is a Day on which the truthful will benefit from their truthfulness; for them are Gardens beneath which rivers flow, in which they will abide forever and ever. Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Allah; this is the greatest success.’

‘Allamah Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: From this Ayah, we came to know that on the Day of Judgement, truthfulness would benefit - and lying and showing off would not be beneficial in any way. Therefore, a wise person should try his utmost to tread on the path of truthfulness; because after faith [Iman], adopting truthfulness inclines a person towards righteous deeds.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 2, pp. 467-468)

May Allah Almighty also grant us the blessings of truthfulness on the Day of Judgement. May Allah Almighty enable us to follow the true teachings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who always spoke the truth himself and also persuaded people to do so. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was so renowned as a true and honest person that the non-believers who were his bloodthirsty enemies, those who used to oppress him in different ways and despite wandering in the valley of Kufr and shirk, they were still highly impressed with the truthfulness and honesty of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم not only remained practically steadfast on truthfulness in the most testing times of his blessed life, but also persuaded us to become embodiments of truthfulness in the light of his blessed sayings. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in regards to the importance of truthfulness and its virtues:

1 One person came in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is the action which leads a person to Paradise?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘Speaking the truth. When a person speaks the truth, he commits a righteous deed. And when he carries out a righteous deed, then he gets protection. And when he gets protected, then he enters in the Paradise.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 589, Raqm 6652)

2 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Truthfulness indeed leads towards righteousness. And righteousness leads towards Paradise. And indeed, a person keeps speaking the truth to the extent that he gets inscribed in the court of Allah Almighty as the one speaking truth immensely. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 125, Raqm 6094)

3 The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Speak the truth even if you see destruction in it, because salvation lies only in it. (Makarim-ul-Akhlaq, pp. 111)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Sabih, vol.1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

Sunnahs and manners of sneezing

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of sneezing from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Firstly, let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes sneeze and does not like yawn. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2 When someone sneezes and says ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’, angels say ‘ رَبُّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’ and if he [also] says ‘ رَبُّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’, the angels say: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3 When sneezing, lower your head, cover your face and sneeze in a low voice as it is foolishness to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

4 One should say ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ ’ after sneezing. (It is stated on page 3 of Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Muakkadah [emphasized] Sunnah to praise [Hamd of] Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon sneezing). It is better to say ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ ’ or ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ عَلٰی کُلِّ حَالٍ ’.

It is Wajib for the listener to say ‘ یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you) immediately in an audible voice so that the one who sneezed can hear. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 476)

5 Upon hearing ‘ یَرْحَمُكَ اللّٰہ ’, the person who sneezed should say: ‘ یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَنَا وَلَـکُمْ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say: ‘ یَہْدِیْکُمُ اللّٰہُ وَ یُصْلِحُ بَالَـکُمْ ’ (i.e. may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(Fatawa Hindiyyah, vol. 5, pp. 326)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

