اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Welcome Ramadan!

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ ا للہ

نَـوَیْتُ سُنَّتَ الاعْتِکَاف

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep getting the reward of I’tikaf. Remember! There is no Shar’i permission to eat and drink, sleep or do Sahari and Iftari even to drink Zamzam water and the water on which Dam has been made in a Masjid. However, if the intention of I’tikaf is made, all these acts will become permissible. One should not make intention to observe I’tikaf only to eat, drink or sleep, but rather he should do it for pleasing Allah Almighty. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: If someone wants to eat, drink, sleep in a Masjid, he should make intention to observe I’tikaf, do Zikr of Allah Almighty for some time, then whatever he wants he can do (i.e. now if he wants to eat, drink or sleep, he can do so.).

Excellence of blessed Durood

The Rasool of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the Most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنْ صَلّٰى عَلَيَّ صَلَّى اللهُ عَلَيْهِ عَشْرًا بِهَا مَلَكٌ مُوَكَّلٌ بِهَا حَتّٰى يُبَلِّغَنِيْهَا ’

The one who recites Durood on me, Allah Almighty bestows 10 mercies on him and an angel has been appointed to present this blessed Durood to me.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 134, Raqm: 7611)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for pleasing Allah Almighty and attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall, etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach people myself to saying Salam, shake hands with them, and make individual efforts upon them.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Ramadan! Amongst the lunar months the importance and excellence the sacred month of Ramadan is not hidden from any wise person.

It is the great month for which the devotees of Ramadan wait throughout the year. As this blessed month comes, Muslims become happy; their yearning for worship increases more than before and a substantial decrease in sins is observed; Masajid are filled with Salah-offering Muslims. Muslims become extremely happy on seeing the blessings and liveliness of Sahari and Iftari. Fortunate Muslims become busy offering Taraweeh with the intention to listen to the Word of Allah Almighty the Holy Quran, and act upon a Sunnah. Zikr and Durood are recited in abundance; people become more enthusiastic in spending in the way of Allah Almighty; the poor and the destitute are financially helped and many other good deeds are performed. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is the same month of blessings whose virtues and blessings our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned himself.

Welcoming Ramadan and sermon of Beloved Rasool

Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that on the last day of Sha’ban the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم delivered a sermon to us, ‘O people! An auspicious and blessed month is coming to you. In this month, there is a night that is better than a thousand months. Allah عَزَّوَجَلّ َ has made it Fard to observe Siyam in this sacred month. To worship (offer Taraweeh Salah) in its nights is Sunnah. If you perform a virtuous deed in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out a Fard act in any other month and if you perform a Fard act in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out 70 Fard acts in any other month. It is the month of patience and the reward for patience is Paradise. It is the month of helping [Muslims] in hard time and the month of goodness. In this month, a believer’s sustenance is increased. In this month, the one who serves Iftar to a Sawm-observing person, this [act of his] is forgiveness for his sins; he will be freed from the fire, and he will be rewarded the same as the one who observes Sawm, without any reduction in the reward of the Sawm-observing person.’ We humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Not all of us have the thing through which we serve a Sawm-observing person Iftar .’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Allah Almighty will bestow this reward upon the one who offers a date or mouthful of water or a mouthful of milk to a Sawm-observing person for Iftar. It is the month whose first 10 days are mercy, second 10 days are forgiveness and the

last 10 days are deliverance from the Hell. The person who takes less work from his employee, Allah Almighty will forgive him and will free him from the Hell. The one who serves a Sawm-observing person with a meal to his fill, Allah Almighty will make him drink such a mouthful [of water] from my pond that he will never feel thirsty (after drinking it) and will enter Paradise.

(Ibn-e-Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 191, Hadees 1887)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would have so much love and devotion to this sacred month i.e. sacred Ramadan that as the signs of this sacred month would appear, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would himself welcome this sacred month with extreme glory and would also mention its glory and dignity, virtues and blessings to the blessed companions and by doing this he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would describe its significance and importance to them. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also make their mind to perform different virtuous deeds. Therefore we should also wish Muslims this blessed month. We should also perform acts of worship ourselves in this blessed month and should make others aware of the importance, virtues and blessings of this sacred month and continue to make their mind to perform many good deeds. May Allah Almighty bless us with the real blessings of blessed Ramadan!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Manner of preparation for Ramadan

Ramadan was just round the corner and Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a famous pious person who was a historian by profession, had nothing. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote a letter to his ‘Alawi [1] friend stating, ‘the blessed month of

Ramadan is coming, and I have nothing to spend. Please send 1000 dirhams [silver coins] to me as a loan without any interest.’ So the ‘Alawi sent him a bag containing 1000 dirhams [silver coins] to him. After a short while Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received a letter from his another friend with the following message, ‘I need 1000 dirhams to spend in the blessed month of Ramadan.’ Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent him the same bag of dirhams.’ The next day, the ‘Alawi friend who gave Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه the dirhams and the friend who received the dirhams from Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه both came to the house of Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . ‘Alawi friend said, ‘The blessed month of Ramadan is coming and I had nothing except for these 1000 dirhams, but when I received your letter I send all of my 1000 dirhams to you. For my own need, I wrote a letter to this friend of mine to send me 1000 dirhams as a loan. He sent me the same bag of dirhams I sent to you. So it has been learnt that you borrowed dirhams from me, I borrowed dirhams from this friend of mine and he borrowed from you. I sent you the bag which you sent to him, and he sent me the same bag.’ Then with mutual consent these three personages shared the money between themselves.

The following night Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to have a dream in which he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘You will get a lot tomorrow.’ The next day, the chief Yahya Barmaki called Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and asked, ‘Last night I had a dream in which I saw you worried; what’s the matter?’ Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه told him the entire story. Yahya Barmaki replied, ‘I cannot say as to which of you is more generous. Undoubtedly, you all three are generous and deserve to be respected. The chief then gave 30,000 dirhams (silver coins) to Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and 20,000 dirhams each to the other two. Further, he also appointed Sayyiduna Waaqidi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as a Judge.

(Hujjatullahi-‘alal-‘Aalameen, pp. 577; summarised)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Rasool! From the above-mentioned parable it has become obvious that Muslims are generous; Muslims prefer others’ choice to their

own choice; Muslims help their Muslim brothers who are suffering from troubles. Unfortunately! Now we are losing the passion and enthusiasm for helping other Muslims; now we ourselves eat well, earn well, wear well and live a splendid life; we also enjoy different kinds of blessings in the Sahari and Iftari of the blessed month of Ramadan, but unfortunately now we have forgotten to help our poor and needy relatives, neighbours and other Muslims. Anyway, following in the footsteps of these great personalities we should help Muslims practically in the blessed month of Ramadan and in other months. Remember! Serving Muslims Iftari and water is a kind of help. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, great excellence has been mentioned for serving someone Iftar and water in the month of Ramadan.

Virtues of serving someone Iftar

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who serves [any Muslim] Halal food or water as Iftar, angels during the month of Ramadan and Jibraeel Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the night of Qadr make Du’a of forgiveness for him. (Mu'jam Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 262, Hadees 6162)

It is stated at another place: The one who serves water to a Sawm-observing person, Allah Almighty will make him drink from my pond and he will not be thirsty until he enters Paradise. (Ibn-e-Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 191, Hadees 1887)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Rasool! Allah Almighty has countless favours upon us; He bestows things upon the sinful people like us day and night throughout 12 months; blessed Ramadan is the great blessing of Allah Almighty for which no matter how deeply we become grateful to Him it will not be sufficient. Forgiveness is given from the beginning of this month to the end of this month. It is the great month in which Allah Almighty bestowed five special gifts upon the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Five special blessings

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘In Ramadan, my Ummah has been given five such things which were not given to any other Nabi عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام before me:

1. On the first nig ht of blessed Ramadan, Allah Almighty has mercy on them and the one on whom Allah Almighty has mercy will never be tormented.

2. The smell emanating from their mouths in the evening (due to hunger) has a higher status in the sight of Allah Almighty than even the fragrance of musk.

3. Angels continue to make Du’as for their forgiveness every day and night.

4. Allah Almighty orders Paradise: ‘Be adorned for My (righteous) bondmen; soon they get rid of the sufferings of the world and will find peace in My house and My mercy.’

5. On the last night of blessed Ramadan, Allah Almighty forgives everyone.’

A person from the nation stood up and humbly asked, ‘O beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم! Is it Layla-tul-Qadr?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘No. Do you not see that labourers are given their wage when they finish their work?’

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 56, Hadees 7)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

O the devotees of Ramadan! Have you heard! The glory and greatness of blessed Ramadan is very eminent! In this sacred month, Allah Almighty has mercy on His bondmen. Muslims should have prepared for this month from the blessed month of Rajab and should have pleased Allah Almighty by worshipping Him and reciting the Holy Quran, but unfortunately majority of Muslims spend this month heedlessly like other months too.

‘Passing time’ during Sawm

Similarly, there are some people who keep Sawm, but then feel that their time is not passing. So putting the honour of Ramadan aside they indulge themselves in Haraam and impressible activities to pass their time.

Which worship is the best?

O the devotees of Ramadan! Save the sacred moments of blessed Ramadan from wasting them in useless activities! Life is very short, consider it to be precious. Instead of passing [wasting] your time in misusing mobile phones and social media, playing different games and listening to songs in the name of ‘passing time’ (rather wasting time) try to spend your time in reciting the Holy Quran and Durood and doing the Zikr of Allah Almighty. The more thirst and hunger we feel ا ِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the more we will be rewarded for having patience. It is narrated, اَفْضَلُ الْعِبَادَاتِ اَحْمَزُھَا (The best worship is the one that has more hardship).’

(Tafseer Kabeer, part 29, Al-Muzzammil, Taht-al-Ayah: 1, vol. 6, pp. 685)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

‘Madani Daurah (visit)’, one of the 12 Madani activities

O the devotees of Rasool! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool in order to attain the real blessings of blessed Ramadan and the blessings of the Holy Quran and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also ‘Weekly Madani Daurah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Madani activity brings many worldly and Hereafter benefits:

٭ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Madani Daurah, the blessed Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم i.e. calling people towards righteousness is practised.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Madani Daurah, the Sunnah of meeting Muslims and saying Salam is propagated.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Madani Daurah, Islamic knowledge and precious Madani pearls related to calling towards righteousness are conveyed to Muslim Ummah.

٭ Weekly Madani Daurah facilitates to make those Salah-offering who do not offer Salah.

٭ By virtue of the blessing of weekly Madani Daurah, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is promoted and publicised.

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of a weekly Madani Daurah and make intention to do weekly Madani Daurah regularly.

Salah-offering people started going to Masjid

The Madani Qafilah of an Islamic brother living in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) reached a Masjid of a city of Punjab. There was a padlock on the door. After making efforts they obtained the key and opened the door. When they opened the door, they found that everything was dusty. It seemed as if the Masjid had been closed for many years. He along with other Islamic brothers did the cleaning. After the ‘Asr Salah when he reached the playground for Madani Daurah and presented the call towards righteousness to the youngsters busy playing games, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ َ, many youngsters got ready to go with him immediately. They went to the Masjid with him, offered Salah and also had the privilege of listening to the Sunnah-inspiring speech. In this way, by virtue of the individual efforts of the Islamic brothers of Madani Qafilah and Madani Daurah the youngsters intended to go to that Masjid for Salah regularly.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Ramadan and recitation of the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic brothers! In the blessed month of Ramadan, a large number of devotees of Ramadan are usually seen reciting the Holy Quran a lot with great enthusiasm. But alas! Many unfortunate people remain deprived of this privilege in this month. In this matter, we should follow in the footsteps of

our pious predecessors. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ َ, in this sacred month, our pious predecessors would have the privilege of not only reciting the Holy Quran completely once a day, but they would do it many times a day.

Routine of Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Ibrahim رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Ibrahim رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not do Iftar until he would completely recite the Holy Quran on the 21 st, 23 rd, 25 th, 27 th and 29 th of blessed Ramadan. He رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would keep pondering over the Hereafter matters between Maghrib and Isha Salah and would often send me to call Miskeens [poor people] at the time of Iftar so that they could also eat with him. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 3, pp. 199, Raqm 3695)

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! One should learn how to love Quran, have yearning for its recitation and value Ramadan from them who would recite Quran a lot in the month of forgiveness. We should also make the intention of reciting the Holy Quran a lot in the month of Ramadan and welcome this guest of Allah Almighty happily with respect and honour. For persuasion, let’s listen to some virtues of reciting the Holy Quran.

Virtues of reciting Holy Quran

٭ Those who recite the Holy Quran have been praised in the Holy Quran.

(Part 1, Al-Baqarah, Ayah 121)

٭ Loving the Holy Quran [reciting it and acting upon it] is a source of loving Allah Almighty and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 9, pp. 132, Hadees 8657)

٭ One gets the reward of 10 virtues for reciting one letter of the Holy Quran.

٭ The home in which Quran is recited becomes blessed for its dwellers.

٭ Goodness increases in the home.

٭ Angels visit the home and Satans get out of it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 826)

٭ On the Judgement Day, the Holy Quran will come to intercede for the forgiveness of the sins of its reciters. (Muslim, pp. 403, Hadees 804)

٭ Allah Almighty will bestow better (Sawab) upon reciters of the Holy Quran than the reward of those who give thanks. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 273, Hadees 2437)

٭ Those who recite the Holy Quran and act upon its commandments are Allah-loving and His special people. (Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 140, Hadees 215)

٭ Recitation of the Holy Quran is an excellent act of worship for this Ummah.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

٭ For the one who recites the Holy Quran standing in Salah there are 100 virtues in exchange for every letter.

٭ For the one who recites the Holy Quran in the sitting position there are 50 virtues in exchange for every letter.

٭ 25 virtues are for the one who recites [it] in the state of Wudu apart from Salah.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 366)

٭ Recitation of Quran is a means of cleaning hearts. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 352, Hadees 2014)

May Allah Almighty bless us with the desire and yearning for reciting the Holy Quran.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Three levels of Sawm

Dear Islamic brothers! There are three levels of Sawm:

1. Sawm of common people

2. Sawm of the pious

3. Sawm of the ascetic

1. Sawm of common people

The literal meaning of Sawm is ‘to abstain’. In Shari’ah terminology, it means to abstain from deliberately eating, drinking and having conjugal relationship from dawn (Subh-e-Sadiq) to sunset. This is called the Sawm of common people.

2. Sawm of the pious

In addition to abstaining from eating, drinking and having conjugal relationship, preventing all the parts of body from evils/sins is the Sawm of Khawaas i.e. special people.

3. Sawm of the ascetic

Devoting yourself completely to the worship of Allah Almighty after preventing yourself from all the [ worldly] activities is the Sawm of the ascetic.

(Al-Jauhara-tun-Nayyirah, pp. 175; Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 90)

O the devotees of Ramadan! The aim of Sawm is to protect our body parts from sins along with refraining from eating, drinking etc., we should make all our body parts observe Sawm strictly and should protect ourselves from every type of evils because we stop eating and drinking during the day by observing Sawm in the month of blessed Ramadan though this eating and drinking was absolutely permissible during the day before Ramadan. We then should ponder over it ourselves that the things which are Halal before blessed Ramadan have been forbidden during the days of this sacred month, so the things which are already Haraam before blessed Ramadan such as lying, backbiting, telling tales, abusing, watching films and dramas, listening to songs and music, gazing unlawfully, shaving the beard or trimming it less than a fist-length, hurting the feelings of people without any Shar’i permission, etc., will automatically become even more severely Haraam in blessed Ramadan. Now ponder! What type of Sawm-observing person is he who stops eating and drinking pure and Halal things, but continues to perform Haraam deeds that lead to Hell?

Remember! The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has warned, ‘If anyone does not refrain from indecent talking and evil acts (remember) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not

need his act of remaining hungry and thirsty.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 628, Hadees 1903)

Fighting and quarrelling while observing Sawm!

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! Some Muslims have become so bad that it seems as if they find a way of troubling, quarrelling and giving inconvenience to others in the month of blessed Ramadan. If someone abuses someone or hurts him in any way, so for the sake of Allah Almighty instead of forgiving the offender, the person who has been hurt gets ready to fight him.

Remember! One should not speak such things at all which cause trouble to a Muslim, but rather one should become humble. We can stay safe from all these evils only when we protect our body parts from sins by making them also observe Sawm strictly (i.e. abstain from committing sins through them). The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Sawm is not the name of only abstaining from eating and drinking, but rather Sawm is that one should avoid using useless and obscene language. If someone abuses you or behaves badly towards you, so say, ‘I am observing Sawm’. (Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 67, Hadees 1611)

Now let’s have some examples of sins committed by body parts:

Sin committed by eyes

The sin committed by eyes is to see things which are declared Haraam by Allah Almighty. Every Muslim should protect his eyes from seeing Haraam things and should observe Sawm through his eyes by looking at only permissible things such as a Masjid, the Holy Quran, the shrines of pious saints, Islamic scholars and the pious bondmen of Allah Almighty, sacred Ka'bah, the fragrant streets of sacred Makkah, the Green Dome, the beautiful view of Arab deserts, etc.

Sin committed by ears

The sin committed by ears is to listen to those things from which Allah Almighty has forbidden, therefore do not listen to songs and music at all, do not listen to false jokes, do not listen to backbiting, tale-telling and faults of other people etc., and do not eavesdrop anyone’s private conversation.

Observe Sawm through ears! It can be done by listening to only permissible things such as listening to recitation of the Holy Quran, Hamd and Na'ats and Manqabat about pious predecessors, Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs and good things, listening to Azan and Iqamat and replying to them after listening, etc.

Sin committed by tongue

The sin committed by a tongue is to utter those things which displease Allah Almighty, therefore protect the tongue from being impure by abusing, lying, backbiting, telling tales, etc. May our tongue be used only for righteous and permissible things! For example, recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr and recite Durood, recite Hamd and Na’at, give Madani Dars, deliver Sunnah-inspiring speeches, present the call towards righteousness, etc.

Sin committed by hands

Using hands for the disobedience to Allah Almighty is the sin of hands. So we should try not to use them to beat anyone unjustly, to give and take bribe, to neither steal anyone’s possession nor play cards, fly a kite and shake hands with a non-Mahram woman. Whenever we have to use our hands, we should use them only for virtuous deeds such as for touching the Holy Quran in the state of Wudu, shaking hands with pious people, etc.

Sin committed by feet

The sin committed by feet is to go to a place from which Allah Almighty has prohibited, therefore we should not go to the cinema at all, to the gatherings of bad friends, go to watch or play impermissible video games, etc. May our feet be used only for righteous acts! May they be used to walk towards Masajid, shrines of blessed saints, to see Islamic scholars and pious people, to walk for presenting the call towards righteousness, to walk to Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima, to travel with Madani Qafilahs for the tarbiyyat (learning) of Sunnahs!

May Allah Almighty enable us to protect our body parts from sins and perform righteous and permissible acts in Ramadan and other than Ramadan!

اٰ مِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Spread the invitation for collective I’tikaf

O the devotees of Ramadan! Another way of welcoming the blessed Ramadan and spending it in performing virtuous deeds is to present Muslims the call towards righteousness, forbid them from evils and make their mind to observe Fard Siyam by telling them the virtues of blessed Ramadan through travelling with Madani Qafilahs; make great individual efforts. May we get such blessings from ‘Welcoming Ramadan’ arranged by our individual and collective efforts that the Madani blessings of Siyam be seen everywhere. If only we give Madani Dars and Chowk Dars (Dars at a busy place), etc., from ‘Faizan-e-Ramadan’ in the schedule of Madani Qafilah. May we try to send the pamphlet named ‘ Ramadan mayn Gunah Kernay Walay ka Bhayanak Anjam ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah to every home. May we also continue to invite these devotees of Rasool immediately to observe the I'tikaf of the whole blessed Ramadan and the last ten days of blessed Ramadan under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Also especially propagate the invitation to observe devotees of Ramadan’s splendid ‘whole-month Ramadan I'tikaf’ arranged in Global Madani Centre Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi.

ا َلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, collective I'tikaf of the whole Ramadan and the last ten days of blessed Ramadan is being arranged in different countries and cities of the world under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. In this I'tikaf, an effort is made to give Madani Tarbiyyat to the devotees of Ramadan who observe I’tikaf as per schedule given to them by Central Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in collective I'tikaf, thousands of Islamic

brothers not only attain the blessings of I'tikaf and other acts of worship, they also gain Islamic knowledge and attain Tarbiyyat of Sunnah. Many of the devotees of Ramadan start travelling with Madani Qafilahs for the Tarbiyyat of Sunnah in the company of devotees of Rasool from the moon-sighting night when the blessed month of Ramadan ends. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, In order to accumulate more blessings of I'tikaf and Madani parables many devotees of Ramadan not only travel with Madani Qafilahs immediately, but they are also privileged to do different Madani courses such as (12 Madani activity Course, Islah-e-A’maal [Deeds’ reformation] Course, Faizan-e-Namaz Course, Imamat Course, Madani Tarbiyyati Course, etc.).

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic brothers! Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is persuading Muslims to carry out virtuous deeds all over the world. By virtue of this passion and enthusiasm, Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has also been established. The main purpose of this Majlis is to give the Madani mind-set of spending life as per Sunnah to the people who are associated with worldly educational institutions by associating them with Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool.

This Majlis establishes links with teachers and students of colleges and universities with good intentions and persuades them to act upon the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions and by setting up Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for adults) in hostels, it teaches them the Holy Quran and makes great efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of devotees of Rasool associated with this department have repented of their sins and started offering Salah and following Sunnahs regularly. May Allah Almighty accept the efforts made by ‘Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem’!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are receiving the blessings of the blessed month of Sha'ban and soon the blessed month of Ramadan will also arrive. The blessed Urs of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna Khadija tul Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is on 10 th blessed Ramadan. Let’s listen to a brief zikr of hers in relation to it.

Introduction to Sayyidah Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

The name of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidatuna Khadija tul Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is ‘Khadijah’, father’s name is ‘Khuwaylid’ and mother’s name is Fatimah. Her Kunyahs are Umm-ul-Qaasim and Umm-e-Hind. Her titles are Taahirah, Sayyidah, Siddiqah and Al-Kubra. Her last title is so much used with her name that it seems as if it is the part of her name. She was the first woman to embrace Islam. She is the mother of Khatoon-e-Jannah Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and the grandmother of the chiefs of the youth of Jannah Hasanayn Karimayn رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . She sacrificed her entire wealth for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and spent her entire life looking after him. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not perform Nikah with any other woman in her life. She lived almost 25 years with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and on the 10 th year of the announcement of Prophethood, in the sacred month of Ramadan, she passed away at the blessed age of 65 and was laid to rest in the famous graveyard of sacred Makkah, Jannat-ul-Ma’la. In order to get more information about her blessed life, study the book ‘Faizan-e-Ummahat ul Mu`mineen’ from page 31 to 39 and a booklet, ‘Faizan-e- Khadija tul Kubra’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. This book and booklet can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Madani pearls of respecting Sadaat

O devotees of Rasool! Let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls about the reverence for blessed Sadaat, but first of all listen to two blessed sayings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The one who treats any of my Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم well, I will bestow the reward of it upon him on the Judgement Day. (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 533, Hadees 8821)

2. The person who does good to any of the offspring of Abdul Muttalib in the world, giving reward for it is compulsory for me when he will meet me on the Judgement Day.

(Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 10, pp. 102, Hadees 5221)

3. The reverence for blessed Sadaat is Fard and insulting them is Haraam.

(Kufriyah Kalimat kay Baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 277)

The main reason why we respect and revere blessed Sadaat is that these personages are the part of the blessed and purest body of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

(Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 7)

It is amongst the reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that all those things which are related to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should be revered.

(Ash-Shifa, pp. 56, Juz: 2; Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 8) Reverence does not need any confirmation and nor does it need any specific certificate; therefore those who are called Sadaat should be revered. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 14)

Announcement

The remaining Madani pearls about reverence for Sadaat will be mentioned in Tarbiyyati Halqahs, so do attend Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to listen to these Madani pearls.

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands.

(Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلّ َ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 02 May 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls of respecting Sadaat

٭ Accursed is the one who is not Sayyid in reality but claims to be a Sayyid deliberately. Neither his Fard is accepted, nor his Nafl. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 16)

٭ If any heretic claims to be a Sayyid and his heretic beliefs have reached the extent of disbelief [Kufr], then he will not be revered at all. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 17)

٭ Reverence of Sadaat is the reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 22, pp. 423; Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 8)

٭ A teacher should also refrain from punishing a Sayyid.

(Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 284)

٭ Sadaat can be employed at such jobs that have no element of disgrace in it. However, it is not permissible to employ them in disgraceful jobs. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 12)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

Du’a when feeling tired

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the “Du’a to get rid of tiredness” will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

٭ Recite ‘ سُبْحَانَ اللہ ’ 33 times

٭ Recite ‘ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہ ’ 33 times

٭ Recite ‘ اَللہُ اَکْبَر ’ 34 times

(Khazinah-e-Rahmat, pp. 56)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

