اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa ﷺ

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Sayyiduna Ubayy Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I recite Salat-‘Alan-‘Nabi abundantly; how long shall I recite Salat upon you? Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘As much as you want.’ I humbly said, ‘1/4?’ It was replied, ‘As much as you want, but the more you recite Salat, the better it is.’ I humbly said, ‘Half?’ It was replied, ‘As much as you want, but if you recite more, it is better.’ I humbly said, ‘I will recite Salat all the time upon you.’ It was replied, ‘Then this act of yours will economize on your worries and will become the cause of your forgiveness. ’ (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 3, pp. 198, Raqm 3631)

بیٹھتے، اُٹھتے، جاگتے، سوتے ہو الٰہی میرا شِعار دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reciting the following Du’a in the blessed month of Rajab is a Sunnah act; the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to recite the following Du’a when the blessed month of Rajab would commence:

اَللّٰهُمَّ بَارِكْ لَنَا فِیْ رَجَبٍ وَّ شَعْبَانَ وَ بَلِّغْنَا رَمَضَان

Translation: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Descend your Blessing upon us in the [blessed] months of Rajab and Sha’ban, and make us reach Ramadan.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 3, pp. 85, Hadees 3939)

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to

say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight is the 27 th night of Rajab- ul - Murajjab 1437 AH. Thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has, once again, blessed us with a great and sacred night that is full of divine blessings and excellences. It is the great night in which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted a great miracle upon our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Who can give the description of the incidents which occurred in this luminous night of tonight, the spiritual manifestation and luminosity that were showered? However some Madani pearls will be briefly presented. Listen to them attentively. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the love of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will develop further in the heart.

Being intoxicated with love, Imam-e- Ahl -e- Sunnat, Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is giving the description of Beloved Mustafa’s Mi’raaj and in the first 12 couplets of ‘ Qaseedah Mi’raajiyah ’ has stated: Let me give you a summary of these couplets.

Tonight the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived at the ‘ Arsh -e- Mua’lla in full glory and splendour, so for his pleasure all were gathered; tonight all the angels and Heavens were singing in their own tones like nightingales and saying: O splendours! How beautiful is tonight! May you have blessings in this joy! And O gardens! May you have blessings in these splendours! Tonight there was an ecstasy of happiness and joy in the sky and on the earth and

celebrations were going on; tonight in celebration of the Beloved Prophet’s Mi’raaj, the rain of luminosity was falling (as flowers are showered upon the arrival of a bridegroom); tonight the fragrance of the reception of the luminosities from the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was spreading and there was a great festivity, as is seen in a wedding house. Tonight, so much brightness was spreading from the glowing face of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that it illuminated the whole atmosphere up to Grand ‘Arsh. Tonight was shining so brightly that it seemed as if mirrors had been placed everywhere and the Sacred Ka’bah was beautiful like a new bride, and may I be sacrificed for Hajr-e-Aswad which is like a beauty spot on the blessed Ka’bah, looking so lovely. Tonight, the Beloved Prophet’s blessed eyes had a special brilliance (Tajalliyat); rejoicing and celebrations were everywhere tonight. Tonight, such an atmosphere of reciting Na’at was created that the Ka’bah itself was in a state of joy; tonight the ‘Meezab-e-Zar’ looked like an ornament (worn by a woman on the forehead); tonight the blessed Ka’bah was shining brightly and its fragrant Ghilaaf (velvety sheet spread over it) swayed in delight with the cool fragrant breeze; the beauty of the hills was also so awesome that their magnificent and stunning peaks were looking very attractive; tonight the zephyr (light/westerly wind) generated such a wave in the greenery of the hills that it seemed as if it was wearing a green Dupatta (a piece of cloth draped loosely over the head and shoulders); tonight the streams were such that it seemed they were wearing a shining dress of flowing water; tonight for the reception of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the old floor of the moon’s moonlight was removed and the floor of Noori creatures’ eyes that is made of the wires of gold and silk was spread.

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight is the great and illuminating night in which a great miracle was granted to our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Tonight the chief of all the angels Sayyiduna Jibra`eel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام came to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with an extremely swift transport named the ‘Buraaq’. The angels made the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a bridegroom, and then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was mounted onto the Buraaq with extreme respect and honour. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Bayt-ul-Muqaddas in no time where all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام welcomed him. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led the Salah of all the Prophets

عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام ; tonight he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visited all the Heavens and saw their wonders; tonight he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام with his sight on every sky; the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام congratulated the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon his arrival. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Sidra-tul-Muntaha. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached that place after which none else can enter, even Sayyiduna Jibra`eel-e-Ameen عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام also excused himself for being unable to move further. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached that place where intellect and wisdom cannot even reach. Tonight the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with the gifts of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; special gifts were granted to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Tonight, the special gift of 50 Salahs was first granted to our Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that after being reduced to 5 Salahs, was made Fard (compulsory) for us; tonight the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم toured Paradise and Hell; tonight He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم attained the special closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the Creator and Owner عَزَّوَجَلَّ of the whole universe with his own blessed eyes.

باغِ عالم میں بادِ بہاری چلی سرورِ انبیاء کی سُواری چلی

یہ سُواری سُوئے ذاتِ باری چلی ابرِ رحمت اُٹھا آج کی رات ہے

طُور چوٹی کو اپنی جھکانے لگا چاندنی چاند ہر سُو دِکھانے لگا

عرش سے فرش تک جگمگانے لگا رشکِ صبحِ صفا آج کی رات ہے

عطرِ رحمت فرشتے چھڑکتے چلے جس کی خوشبو سے رستے مہکتے چلے

چاند تارے جِلو میں چمکتے چلے کہکشاں زیرِ پا آج کی رات ہے

طُور پر رفعتِ لامکانی کہاں لَن تَرانی کہاں مَن رّاٰنی کہاں

جس کا سایہ نہیں اُس کا ثانی کہاں اُن کا اِک معجزہ آج کی رات ہے

جذبِ حسنِ طلب ہر قدم ساتھ ہے دائیں بائیں فرشتوں کی بارات ہے

سر پہ نورانی سہرے کی کیا بات ہے شاہ دُولہا بنا آج کی رات ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with His own Blessed Sight. This was the wish that remained in the heart of Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, until it became his appeal and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly submitted it to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by stating: ‘ رَبِّ اَرِنِيۡ ’, O my Lord, let me see You! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ لَنۡ تَرٰنِيۡ ’ you will definitely not be able to see Me . But when it came to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself sent Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to call His Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and blessed him with His Own Sight. Therefore, the great lover of the Beloved Rasool, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has beautifully stated:

تَبَارَکَ الله شان تیری تجھی کو زیبا ہے بے نیازی

کہیں تو وہ جوشِ لَن تَرانِی کہیں تَقاضے وِصال کے تھے

Explanation: i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, You are the greatest Granter of blessings and You are extremely glorious and worthy of independence, and how beautiful is Your work that despite the wish of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام to see You, You said, ‘ O Musa, You will definitely not be able to see Me ’, on the other hand, You are inviting Your Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to meet You.

(Sharh Kalam-e-Raza, pp. 665)

Dear Islamic brothers! In verse 1 of Surah Bani Israel; part 15, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated some parts of the incident of Mi’raaj in the following words:

سُبۡحٰنَ الَّذِیۡۤ اَسۡرٰی بِعَبۡدِہٖ لَیۡلًا مِّنَ الۡمَسۡجِدِ الۡحَرَامِ اِلَی الۡمَسۡجِدِ الۡاَقۡصَا الَّذِیۡ بٰرَکۡنَا حَوۡ لَہٗ لِنُرِ یَہٗ مِنۡ اٰیٰتِنَا ؕ اِنَّہٗ ہُوَ السَّمِیۡعُ الۡبَصِیۡرُ ﴿۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Holy is He Who carried His bondman by night from the sacred Masjid to the Aqsa Masjid around which We have placed blessings that We might show him Our grand signs. Indeed, He is the Hearing, the Seeing. (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, verse 1)

Regarding this blessed verse, Maulana Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan: The blessed Mi’raaj is a miracle of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It reveals the miraculous closeness of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم which no other creation of Allah has ever attained. The blessed Mi’raaj occurred in a state of wakefulness with both body and soul. This faith is the belief of the majority of Muslims and a large number of the glorious Sahabah Kiraam (companions) of the Beloved Rasool. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 525)

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ started tonight’s great incident with the word ‘ سُبۡحٰن ’ (in the Holy Quran), meaning the sanctity of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His state of being absolutely free from every fault and defect. The idea behind this was to also answer any objections that the unbelievers could raise on the authenticity of the physical Mi’raaj. For example, the visit of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with his blessed body to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas or towards the skies with his blessed physical body and from there to the destination of ‘ ثُمَّ دَنٰي فَتَدَلّٰي ’ (Allah’s closeness) and then the return in an extremely short period of time were impossible for unbelievers to understand. By stating the word ‘ سُبۡحٰن ’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed that if all these acts were impossible for Me, then this would be My inability and weakness, and weakness is a defect, and I am absolutely free from every defect. (Maqalat-e-Kaazimi, part 1, pp. 123)

Dear Islamic brothers! Raising an objection to this glorious miracle of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not something new, but many unwise people who are unaware of its reality, have been refusing to accept this great miracle even from the blessed era of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is

sufficient for a Muslim to keep in mind the power of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of trying to prove this incident through their wisdom, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is All-Powerful.

In order to further understand this, keep in mind the miracle of Sayyiduna Asif Bin Barkhiya رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ a follower of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام that from Yemen to Syria, he took a throne that was 80 yards (128.72 km’s) long and 40 yards (64.36 km’s) wide which decorated with diamonds and jewellery, he lifted this throne before the blink of an eye. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated this incident in verse 40 of Surah An-Naml, part 19:

قَالَ الَّذِیۡ عِنۡدَ ہٗ عِلۡمٌ مِّنَ الۡکِتٰبِ اَنَا اٰتِیۡکَ بِہٖ قَبۡلَ اَنۡ یَّرۡ تَدَّ اِلَیۡکَ طَرۡ فُکَ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: One who had knowledge of the Book said, ‘I shall bring it to you before the blinking of your eye.’

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted a follower of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, the power of transferring an extremely heavy throne, which was present hundreds of miles away, by lifting it before the blink of an eye upon, then without doubt, in a small portion of the night by His Power and Omnipotence, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ is able to grant a journey of Makaan and La-Makaan to His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has rightfully said:

خِرَد سے کہہ دو کہ سَر جُھکا لے گُماں سے گُزرے گُزرنے والے

پڑے ہیں یاں خُود جِہَت کو لالے کسے بتائے کدھر گئے تھے

سُراغِ اَین و متٰی کہاں تھا نشانِ کَیف و اِلٰی کہاں تھا

نہ کوئی راہی نہ کوئی ساتھی نہ سنگِ منزل نہ مَرحلے تھے

کسے ملے گھاٹ کا کنارا کدھر سے گُزرا کہَاں اُتارا

بھرا جو مثلِ نظر طرارا وہ اپنی آنکھوں سے خُود چُھپے تھے

1. i.e. Say this to the intellect, what are you thinking about, you cannot understand this scene, therefore submit to it, because those who had to pass have passed and even your breeze could not get and how you could know it then; here even the 6 directions had no idea in which direction the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to on the night of Mi’raaj. (Sharh Kalam-e-Raza, pp. 667)

2. Who will tell as to when, where and how the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went on the night of Mi’raaj? Nobody has the answers to all these questions because there was no concept of ‘ when ’ and ‘ where ’ over there and nor was there any sign of ‘ how ’ and ‘ where ’. Over there, no one was accompanying you nor was there any sign of any destination. (Sharh Kalam-e- Raza, pp. 669)

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight we should also truly accept the great incident of Mi’raaj along with the other miracles of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, instead of proving them through our intellect. We must also avoid the company of such people who deny accepting the miracles and marvels of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and those who are insulting towards our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that we can protect our faith. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

حَیّ باقی جس کی کرتا ہے ثَنا مَرتے دَم تک اُس کی مِدحَت کیجئے

جس کا حُسن الله کو بھی بھا گیا ایسے پیارے سے مَحَبَّت کیجئے

Explanation of couplets: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Who will always remain alive, praises His Beloved, His bondsmen should understand that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ wants everyone to always praise His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so that they can become the beloved ones of His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and after becoming the beloved of His Beloved صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then they can also become His عَزَّوَجَلَّ beloved, because the friend of a friend is also a friend.

O sinners! Instead of chasing after the beauty of the destruction of this world, love the beauty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also loves. By virtue of this beauty, the whole universe has been blessed.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. Dear Islamic brothers! There is a famous saying ‘ فِعۡلُ الۡحَكِيۡمِ لَا يَخۡلُو عَنِ الۡحِكۡمَ ةِ ’ i.e. the actions of a Wise person is never free of wisdom (i.e. there is always some wisdom behind his action); countless pearls of wisdom are hidden in every action of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which are impossible for our intellect to understand. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with Mi’raaj, the idea was also to console and comfort the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because since that day when the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood on the peak of Safa to present the call to invite the Quraysh of Makkah towards the Oneness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they started bearing malice and hatred against our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Troubles and hardships then started everywhere and grief started increasing day by day. But at this difficult time, the presence of his uncle, Abu Taalib and Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا became a means of comfort and support for him.

On the 10 th year of the declaration of Prophethood, his uncle (Abu Taalib) passed away. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not recover from this grief that his beloved companion and consoler, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا also passed away. Now no one was there to prevent the unbelievers of Makkah from their injustice and cruelty and to condemn them for these acts, the mischief that they caused became unbearable. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to blessed Taif in the hope that they would be convinced to accept this invitation, but the cruel treatment which was given to the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Taif, cannot be fully understood. Under these extreme conditions, when there was disappointment everywhere and apparent support had not

been any more, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ called the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to ‘Aalam-e-Baala on a special journey to observe the clear Signs of His Greatness, so that the apparent oppression could not continue to grieve His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

زہے عزّت و اِعتلائے مُحَمَّد (ﷺ) کہ ہے عرشِ حق زیرِ پائے مُحَمَّد (ﷺ)

مکاں عرش اُن کا فلک فرش اُن کا مَلَک خادمانِ سَرائے مُحَمَّد (ﷺ)

خدا کی رِضا چاہتے ہیں دو عالَم خدا چاہتا ہے رضائے مُحَمَّد (ﷺ)

§ سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How wonderful! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted such an elevated rank to His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that the Grand ‘Arsh -e-Mu’alla (despite having a high status) is under the blessed feet of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ The one who stays on the ‘Arsh and resides on the earth (and passes through the skies), whereas the angels are the servants of his residence.

§ Both the worlds seek the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wants the pleasure of His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. Discussing the wisdom behind the Mi’raaj, Hakeem-ul-Ummat Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: All the miracles and ranks which were individually granted to the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, more than this was granted to our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . There are many incidents: Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام attained such a status that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would go to Koh-e-Toor and would speak to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was called on the

1. forth Heaven and Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was called to Paradise; our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with Mi’raaj in which he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم spoke directly to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, was given a tour of the skies and was made to observe Paradise and Hell. In short, all these ranks were granted to him صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in just this one Mi’raaj.

طُور پر کوئی، کوئی چرخ پہ یہ عرش سے پار

سارے بالاؤں پہ بالا رہی بالائی دوست

Explanation of couplets: i.e. someone’s Mi’raaj is confined to Toor (such as Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام), someone’s Mi’raaj is up to the fourth sky (such as Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام) and who can achieve the closeness of the Mi’raaj of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, because his status is more elevated than the status of all the other blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام .

سارے اُونچوں میں اُونچا سمجھئے جسے

ہے اس اُونچے سے اونچا ہمَارا نبی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

2. Another wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa is that all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام bore witness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Paradise and Hell and got their followers to recite ‘ اَشۡهَدُ اَنۡ لَّآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰه ’, but the witness of none of these personages (blessed Prophets) was neither heard nor seen and a witness is completed when it is seen. So it was needed for there to be a unique personage from amongst these blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, who after seeing them, could witness to all these things and evidence could be completed upon his witness. This evidence was completed by the Beloved

1. Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (as the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw all these things with his blessed eyes). (Shan-e-Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 107)

How beautifully A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

طُورِ موسٰی چرخِ عِیسٰی کیا مساویِّ دَنٰے ہو

سب جِہت کے دائرے میں شش جِہت سے تم وَرا ہو

سب مکاں میں تم لامکاں میں تَن ہیں تم جانِ صفا ہو

§ i.e. Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was called to Koh-e-Toor, Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was called to the sky and having called our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to the (‘Arsh), he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was granted the closeness of ‘ ثُمَّ دَنٰي فَتَدَلّٰي ’. Sayyiduna Musa’s visit to Koh-e- Toor and Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام visit to the fourth sky can never be equal to our Beloved Prophet’s special closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

§ All the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام were granted some specific miracles. O my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! There is no limit of your greatness; you are far away from all directions and restrictions.

§ O my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Your glory is that you have visited even La-Makaan (a place that is not a place, i.e. free from directions, and no Prophet or Angel has ever reached there). If all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are a body, then you are like the pure soul.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj -e-Mustafa

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made His Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the owner of all the treasures. In verse 1 of Surah Al- Kawsar, part 30 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّاۤ اَعۡطَیۡنٰکَ ا لۡکَوۡ ثَرَ ؕ﴿۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O beloved! Undoubtedly, We have bestowed upon you abundance of good.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees of Sahih Bukhari that the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘I was sleeping when the keys of all the treasures were brought to me and placed in both my hands.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 303, Hadees 2977)

The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘I am the treasurer/ custodian (of the treasures of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). (Sahih Muslim, pp. 516, Hadees 1037)

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the owner of the entire kingdom of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that’s why upon every leaf of Paradise, in the eyes of the Hoors (the pure maidens of Paradise), in fact everywhere ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ ’ is written: i.e. These things have been created by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and given to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ behind granting the Mi’raaj is that the owner (of the treasures of both the worlds) could be shown his possessions. (Shan-e- Habib - ur-Rahman, pp. 107) Therefore, in the night of Mi’raaj, this tour was given.

دے دئیے تم کو اپنے خزانے ربِّ عزت ربِّ عُلا نے

دونوں جہاں کی نعمت والے تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم پر لاکھوں سلام

عرشِ عُلا پر ربّ نے بُلایا اپنا جلوۂ خاص دِکھایا

خَلوَت والے جَلوَت والے تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تخت تمہارا عرش خدا کا مُلکِ خدا ہے مِلک تمہارا

ربّ کی اعلٰی خلافت والے تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم کو دیکھا حق کو دیکھا آپ کی صورت اُس کا جلوہ

اچھی اچھی صُورت والے تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم پر لاکھوں سلام

چشمِ سر نے حق کو دیکھا دل نے حق کو حق ہی جانا

اے حقّانی صورت والے تم پر لاکھوں سلام

تم پر لاکھوں سلام

الله کی عنایت۔۔مرحبا معراج کی عظمت۔۔مرحبا

بُراق کی قسمت۔۔مرحبا بُراق کی سُرعَت۔۔مرحبا

اَقصٰی کی شوکت۔۔مرحبا نبیوں کی اِمامت۔۔مرحبا

آقا کی رِفعت۔۔مرحبا آسماں کی سِیاحت۔۔مرحبا

مکینِ لامکاں کی عظمت۔۔مرحبا

چشمانِ نبوت۔۔مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. One of the beliefs of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa that the Islamic scholars have mentioned is to reveal the greatness of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to the whole universe. Therefore, when the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived at Masjid-ul-Aqsa, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led the Salah of all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, so that the superiority of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could be apparent over all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . (Ma’aarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 85)

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Then I entered Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, so all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام were gathered for me, then Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام requested me to go ahead and then I led the Salah of all the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . (Sunan Nasa`ee, pp. 81, Hadees 448)

نمازِ اَقصٰی میں تھا یہی سِرّ عیاں ہوں مَعنیِ اَوَّل آخر

کہ دَست بستہ ہیں پیچھے حاضر جو سلطنت آگے کر گئے تھے

Explanation of couplets: On the night of Mi’raaj, the Salah in which our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم led all the Prophets and Rasools عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, had the secret to differentiate between the first and last (i.e. coming in the end does not mean that the glory and dignity of the last one is less). The Prophets who declared their Prophethood before the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were standing with folded hands, behind the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

O lovers of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, on the illuminating night of Mi’raaj, not only did the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lead the Salah of the blessed Prophets, but also of the Angels in the skies, so that the excellence of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could be revealed to the Angels as well.

(Ma’aarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 85)

In short, the superiority of our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was revealed to all those from where our Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed through.

عرش پہ تازہ چھیڑ چھاڑ فرش میں طُرفہ دُھوم دھام

کان جِدھر لگائیے تیری ہی داستان ہے

عرش کی عقل دنگ ہے چرخ میں آسمان ہے

جانِ مُراد اب کدھر ہائے تِرا مکان ہے

عرش پہ جا کے مرغِ عقل تھک کے گِرا غش آ گیا

اور ابھی منزلوں پَرے پہلا ہی آستان ہے

شانِ خدا نہ ساتھ دے اُن کے خرام کا وہ باز

سدرہ سے تا زمیں جسے نرم سی اِک اُڑان ہے

خوف نہ رکھ رضاؔ ذرا تو تو ہے عَبدِ مصطفٰے

تیرے لئے اَمان ہے تیرے لئے اَمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. In verse 111 of Surah At-Taubah, part 11, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّ اللّٰہَ اشۡتَرٰ ی مِنَ الۡمُؤۡ مِنِیۡنَ اَنۡفُسَہُمۡ وَ اَمۡوَ ا لَہُمۡ بِاَنَّ لَہُمُ الۡجَنَّۃَ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: No doubt, Allah has purchased from the Muslims their lives and their belongings, in return that for them is Paradise. (Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, verse 111)

It is stated in this blessed verse that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the Buyer of the lives and possessions of true believers and true believers are those who sell; the things which are sold are the lives and possessions of true believers and their price/exchange is Paradise. This trade is done through the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the Wakeel of this trade. The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the lives of true believers, on the night of Mi’raaj, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم visited Paradise.

پردہ رُخِ انور سے جو اُٹھا شبِ معراج جنّت کا ہوا رنگ دوبالا شبِ معراج

اے رحمتِ عالم تِری رحمت کے تَصدُّق ہر ایک نے پایا تِرا صدقہ شبِ معراج

جس وقت چلی شاہِ مدینہ کی سُواری سجدے میں جھکا عرشِ مُعلّٰی شبِ معراج

یہ شانِ جلالت کہ نہایت ہی ادب سے جبریل نے آقا کو جگایا شبِ معراج

دُولہا تھے محمد تو براتی تھے فِرشتے اِس شان سے پہنچے مِرے مولٰی شبِ معراج

ممکن ہی نہیں عقلِ دو عالم کی رَسائی ایسا دِیا الله نے رُتبہ شبِ معراج

اُس میں سے جمیلِ رضوی کو بھی عطا ہو رحمت کا بٹا خاص جو حصہ شبِ معراج

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. Another belief regarding Mi’raaj has been mentioned in ‘ Durra-tun- Nasiheen ’, the earth and the sky had a dialogue with each other, so being proud the earth said: I am superior to you, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed me with cities, rivers, streams, trees, mountains and many other things.

The sky replied: I am superior to you because I have the sun, moons, stars, skies, minarets, the ‘Arsh and Kursi, and Paradise.

The earth said: I have the Ka’bah whose Tawaf is performed by the Prophets and Mursaleen (Messengers), Islamic saints and ordinary true believers.

The sky replied: I have Bayt-ul-Ma’moor whose Tawaf is performed by the angels and I have Paradise which is the abode of the sacred souls of all the Prophets and Messengers عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, all the Islamic saints and true believers.

The earth said to the sky: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم resided in me and implemented (Shari’ah) Islamic Laws on me.

When the sky heard this it fell completely helpless to answer further and became quite. The sky then humbly said to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You are the One who helps those who are helpless when they ask You for help, then the sky humbly said: ‘You are able call the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم towards me so that I can also be honoured in a way You have honoured the earth by his beauty.’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ answered this Du’a and granted this honour to the sky on the night of Mi’raaj.

(Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 123)

The son of A’la Hadrat, Hujjat-ul-Islam Mufti Haamid Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه put it so beautifully:

ہے عبد کہاں معبود کہاں معراج کی شب ہے راز نِہاں

دو نُور حجابِ نُور میں تھے خُود رَبّ نے کہا سُبحان الله

ہیں عرشِ بریں پر جلوہ فگن محبوبِ خُدا سُبحان الله

اک بار ہوا دیدار جسے سَو بار کہا سُبحان الله

حیران ہوئے بَرق اور نظر اک آن ہے اور برسوں کا سفر

راکب نے کہا اللهُ غَنِی مَرکَب نے کہا سُبحان الله

طالب کا پتہ مَطلُوب کو ہے مطلوب ہے طالب سے واقِف

پردے میں بُلا کر مل بھی لیے پردہ بھی رہا سُبحان الله

جب سجدوں کی آخری حدوں تک جا پہنچا عبودِیَّت والا

خالق نے کہا مَاشَآءَالله حضرت نے کہا سُبحان الله

سمجھے حامِد انسان ہی کیا یہ راز ہیں حُسن و اُلفَت کے

خالق کا حَبِیبِی کہنا تھا خَلقَت نے کہا سُبحان الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ordered Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام to drop his staff/stick on the ground. When the staff was dropped on the ground, it turned into a python, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commanded him to hold it. When it was held, it turned back into a staff. All these things were shown so that when Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام confronted the sorcerers of Pharaoh (Fir’awn), he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام could not be overcome by the fear of that situation, but could fight with firm determination.

On the Day of Judgement, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede, rather, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will start the intercession. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم behold the wonders of the universe, levels of Paradise and Hell. In addition to this, many other great signs were shown so that the fear of the terrible Day of Judgement cannot overcome him and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم could intercede with full determination and independence. (Ma’aarij-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 80)

The brother of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Hasan Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has given a very beautiful description of the Day of Judgement:

تمہارا نام مصیبت میں جب لیا ہوگا

ہمارا بگڑا ہوا کام بن گیا ہوگا

گناہگار پہ جب لُطف آپ کا ہوگا

کِیا بغیر کیا بے کیا کیا ہوگا

دکھائی جائے گی محشر میں شانِ محبوبی

کہ آپ ہی کی خوشی آپ کا کہا ہوگا

خدائے پاک کی چاہیں گے اگلے پچھلے خوشی

خدائے پاک خوشی اِن کی چاہتا ہوگا

کسی کے پاؤں کی بیڑی یہ کاٹتے ہوں گے

کوئی اسِیرِ غم ان کو پکارتا ہوگا

کسی طرف سے صدا آئے گی حضور آؤ

نہیں تو دَم میں غریبوں کا فیصلہ ہوگا

کوئی کہے گا دُہائی ہے یا رسول الله

تو کوئی تھام کے دامن مچل گیا ہوگا

کسی کو لے کے چلیں گے فرشتے سُوئے حجیم

وہ ان کا راستہ پھر پھر کے دیکھتا ہوگا

زبان سوکھی دِکھا کر کوئی لبِ کوثر

جنابِ پاک کے قدموں پہ گِر گیا ہوگا

کوئی قریبِ ترازو کوئی لبِ کوثر

کوئی صِراط پر ان کو پکارتا ہوگا

یہ بے قرار کرے گی صدا غریبوں کی

مقدس آنکھوں سے تار اشک کا بندھا ہوگا

ہزار جان فدا نرم نرم پاؤں سے

پُکار سُن کے اسیروں کی دوڑتا ہوگا

عزیز بچہ کو ماں جس طرح تلاش کرے

خدا گواہ یہی حال آپ کا ہوگا

کہیں گے اور نبی اِذھَبُوا اِلٰی غَیرِی

مِرے حضور کے لب پر اَنَا لَھَا ہوگا

دُعائے اُمّتِ بدکار وردِ لب ہوگی

خدا کے سامنے سجدہ میں سر جُھکا ہوگا

غلام ان کی عنایت سے چَین میں ہوں گے

عَدُو حضور کا آفت میں مبتلا ہوگا

میں ان کے در کا بھکاری ہوں فضلِ مولیٰ سے

حسن فقیر کا جنت میں بسترا ہوگا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. Another belief of Mi’raaj was to honour the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with all types of revelations. One type of revelation is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ speaks directly and this is the best type of revelation. On the night of Mi’raaj, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ directly spoke to His Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is stated in verse 10 of Surah An-Najm, part 27:

فَاَوۡحٰۤی اِلٰی عَبۡدِ ہٖ مَاۤ اَ وۡحٰی ﴿ؕ۱۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Now He revealed to His bondman whatever He revealed. (Part 27, Surah An-Najm, verse 10)

It is mentioned in the books of Tafaseer (commentaries) that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the verses of ‘ اٰمَنَ الرَّسُوۡلُ ’ which are the

last two verses of Surah Al-Baqarah directly from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the night of Mi’raaj; similarly he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard some verses from Surah Ad-Duha and some from Surah Alam Nashrah on the night of Mi’raaj. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, Surah Ash-Shura, vol. 8, pp. 345)

O lovers of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Let’s listen to the excellence of the last two verses of Surah Al-Baqarah, that our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard directly from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in attaining special closeness on the night of Mi’raaj. We too should recite them from time to time.

Sayyiduna Nu’man Bin Basheer رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Two thousand years before the creation of the earth and the skies, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ‘’wrote’’ a book, and then from this, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed the last verses of Surah Al-Baqarah. Satan will not come close to the home in which these two verses will be recited for three nights.’

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 404, Hadees 2891)

Sayyiduna Abu Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whosever recites the last two verses of Surah Al-Baqarah at night, these will be enough for him.’

(Sahih Bukhari, pp. 405, vol. 3, Hadees 5009)

Dear Islamic brothers! These two verses of Surah Al-Baqarah are sufficient in being equal to spending the night in worship or these will protect him from Satan during that night. According to one reference, they will protect him from calamities which might descend during that night. وَاللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي اَعۡلَمُ

(Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 10, pp. 48)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: (The last two verses of Surah Al-Baqarah) are sufficient in times of troubles and grief because the person who recites them (at night) will stay out of troubles and by chance if troubles do come, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes them, or it is better than to recite all Salats and

Wazaaif or the person who recites these verses in Tahajjud Salah, for him it will be better than to recite a lot of Holy Quran. (Mirat, vol. 3, pp. 232)

بندہ ملنے کو قریبِ حضرتِ قادِر گیا لمعۂ باطن میں گُمنے جلوہ ظاہر گیا

الله الله یہ عُلُوِّ خاص عبدیت رضا بندہ ملنے کو قریبِ حضرتِ قادِر گیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

الله کی عنایت۔۔مرحبا معراج کی عظمت۔۔مرحبا

بُراق کی قسمت۔۔مرحبا بُراق کی سُرعَت۔۔مرحبا

اَقصٰی کی شوکت۔۔مرحبا نبیوں کی اِمامت۔۔مرحبا

آقا کی رِفعت۔۔مرحبا آسماں کی سِیاحت۔۔مرحبا

مکینِ لامکاں کی عظمت۔۔مرحبا

چشمانِ نبوت۔۔مرحبا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. First of all, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created the Noor of His Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) with His Own Noor and kept the Noor of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in His special closeness. When the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived into this world in the form of a human, and desired to have this status, therefore (on the night of Mi’raaj) he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was satisfied from the place of ‘ دَنٰي فَتَدَلّٰي ’.

کیا بنا نامِ خدا اسرٰی کا دُولہا نور کا سر پہ سہرا نور کا بر میں شہانہ نور کا

Another pearl of wisdom of Mi’raaj-e-Mustafa

1. This belief has also been mentioned that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was blessed with Mi’raaj in order to teach the Azan. ‘Allamah Ibn Hajar ‘Asqalani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم said, ‘When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intended to teach the Azan to His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام brought a transport, called a Buraaq and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mounted on it.’ (Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 3, pp. 68)

وہی لا مکاں کے مکیں ہوئے سرِ عرش تخت نشیں ہوئے

وہ نبی ہے جس کے ہیں یہ مکاں وہ خدا ہے جس کا مکاں نہیں

سرِ عرش پر ہے تِری گزر دلِ فرش پر ہے تِری نظر

ملکوت و ملک میں کوئی شے نہیں وہ جو تجھ پہ عیاں نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should have a firm faith in every miracle of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and other Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام for the safety of our faith. Instead of justifying the miracles of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام through our intellect we should develop true love and devotion for them in our hearts. Therefore, we should always be associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Watch the educational and beautiful programs of Madani Channel and regularly attend the weekly Ijtima’ held in your area. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through its blessings our beliefs will remain protected. In this weekly Ijtima’, not only Islamic brothers are privileged to listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran, Zikr and Na’at and participate in the Du’a, but they also attain the virtues of travelling in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to acquire Islamic knowledge and to impart it to others. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings

of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم related to the virtues of acquiring Islamic knowledge:

1. مَنۡ سَلَكَ طَرِيۡقًا يَلۡتَمِسُ فِيۡهِ عِلۡمًا سَهَّلَ اللّٰهُ لَهُ بِه طَرِيۡقًا اِلَي الۡجَنَّةِ: ‘Whoever walks on a path in search of knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes the path to Paradise easy for him.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1448, Hadees 2699)

2. مَنۡ طَلَبَ الۡعِلۡمَ تَكَفَّلَ اللّٰهُ بِرِزۡقِه: ‘One who remains in search of knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guarantees his sustenance.

(Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 3, pp. 398, Raqm 1545)

3. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who learns one or two or three or four or five rulings about the Faraaid of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and memorizes them properly, and then teaches it to others, will enter Jannah.’

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 54, Hadees 120)

An Islamic brother who lives at Shalimar Town (Markaz-ul-Awliya, Lahore) gave the following account: I was an extremely wicked person and had indulged in many evils such as watching films and dramas daily, teasing girls, friendship with loafers and wandering with them till late at night. Even my relatives did not like to meet me; they would resent when I went to their home and would prevent their children from meeting me.

Luckily, the dark night of my sins turned into a bright morning when a lover of the Beloved Rasool of Dawat-e-Islami met me very politely and tried to persuade me to travel with a Madani Qafilah. Impressed by his polite behaviour and his sincere invitation, I travelled with a Madani Qafilah during which the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool caused a Madani transformation in my life.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessings of the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool in the Madani Qafilah, I received the gift of repentance as well as the

enthusiasm to wear a turban and dress according to the blessed Sunnah. The very same relatives that once used to avoid me now meet me affectionately. I was once the worst in my family but now I have become the dearest due to the blessings of Dawat-e-Islami’s Madani Qafilahs, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

یقینًا مُقدَّر کا وہ ہے سکندر جسے خیر سے مل گیا مدنی ماحول

یہاں سُنَّتیں سیکھنے کو ملیں گی دِلائے گا خوفِ خدا مدنی ماحول

تُو آ بے نمازی، ہے دیتا نمازی خدا کے کرم سے بنا مدنی ماحول

گر آئے شرابی مِٹے ہر خرابی چڑھائے گا ایسا نشہ مدنی ماحول

اے بیمارِ عصیاں تُوآجا یہاں پر گُناہوں کی دیگا دوا مدنی ماحول

گناہگارو آؤ سِیہ کارو آؤ گُناہوں کو دیگا چُھڑا مدنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Through this blessed event of Mi’raaj, along with learning some wisdoms behind it, we have also come to know that the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are unparalleled and matchless. The great eminence and the glory of these blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام can be understood by the fact that when the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم set off to Bayt-ul-Muqaddas riding on the Buraaq, its speed was that it would place its next step as far as its eyesight could see. During this journey, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by the blessed shrine of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام which was situated at the red mound of a desert. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw that the Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was standing in his blessed grave, performing Salah.

Ponder over this that if we are travelling by a high speed vehicle, we are unable to figure out anything and sometimes we are even unable to recognise the faces of our acquaintances though this speed is nothing in comparison to the incredibly high speed of the Buraaq, now understand the great excellence of

the blessed sight of the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that despite riding on the fastest Buraaq, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the blessed Prophet Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and even related to the people that Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was offering Salah in his blessed shrine. Keep this in your mind that at this point, the blessed Bayt-ul-Muqaddas, where all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام were already present to greet and receive our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was also amongst them and when the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached the Heavens riding on the Buraaq, then along with other blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام was also amongst them and met with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the sixth Heaven.

All these facts show us that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام with such miraculous powers and abilities that even the Noori Buraaq cannot compete with their Prophetic powers and excellences; furthermore, we have also learnt that all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام have such authority and power granted by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that they can go wherever and whenever they want; when this is the incredible state of the power and authority of the other blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام then who can understand the matchless power and authority granted to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who is the leader and Imam of all the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام .

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has composed poetic lines in praise of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the bottom of his heart that testifies to his immense love and admiration for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

خَلق سے اولیا، اولیا سے رسل اور رسولوں سے اعلٰی ہمارا نبی

مُلکِ کونین میں انبیا تاجدار تاجداروں کا آقا ہمارا نبی

§ Amongst all of creation, the blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have the most superior status, and the blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are superior to

§ the blessed saints and the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the greatest of all the Rusul.

§ The blessed Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are the kings of both the universe and the great status and rank of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is that he is the King of the kings.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It is reported that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلَيْـهِ وَاٰلـِهٖ وَسَـلَّم saw the dwellers of Hell on Layla-tul-Mi’raaj (the Night of Ascension) who were eating a dead body (of a person). The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘O Jibra`eel! Who are these people?’ The Angel Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام replied, ‘They are those who would eat the flesh of people.’

One of the extremely painful torments our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw on the night of Mi’raaj was that the jaws of some people were being opened; after their flesh was cut from their bodies, it was forced into their mouths with blood; these are those unfortunate people who would backbite people and find faults with them. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by some men and women who were hanged by their chests; these are those unfortunate people who defame people to their faces and backbite them.

On the night of Mi’raaj, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw some people whose bellies were as big as rooms and snakes could be seen inside their bellies from the outside; these unfortunate people were usurers (those who deal in interest). The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to such people whose heads were being crushed by stones; these are those unfortunate people whose heads would get heavy due to Salah (who miss Salah). Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also saw those who give Khutbah (pieces of advice) to the Ummah but do not act upon them and those who do not act upon the Holy Quran after they have studied it; their lips were being constantly cut with scissors made of fire.

On the night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some people hanging from branches of fire; these are those unfortunate people who abuse their parents in the world. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some women, who after committing sinful acts kill their children, in such a state that they were hanging from their breasts and legs. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw those who swindle orphans out of their wealth, in such a state that big fire stones were being put into their mouth after holding their lips, and these stones were coming out from their bottoms. Those who do not pay Zakah were seen in such a state that they were gulping/eating up the poisonous plants and hot stones of hell like quadrupeds (animals).

Dear Islamic brothers! Contemplate over these horrific torments then ponder over your inabilities and weaknesses. Alas! Even a slight fever and headache becomes a cause of agony for us, then how shall we be able to bear the painful torments of the Hereafter. Our delicate bodies cannot endure these horrific torments at all. Therefore, we still have time now, awaken ourselves and seek true repentance and refrain from backbiting, tale-telling and slandering, all those who do so, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will resurrect them as dogs.

The backbiter, the tale-teller and the one who tries to find faults of pious people, will be resurrected looking like dogs.’ (At-Tawbeekh Wat-Tanbeeh, pp. 97, Raqm 220; Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 325, Hadees 10)

Similarly, refrain from interest-based forbidden sustenance because in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, taking one Dirham of interest in the state of Islam, is an act worse than committing adultery 33 times. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, Hadees 1027)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The blessed month of Ramadan is here and the blessings and favours of this sacred month is beyond one’s imagination as the opportunities of carrying out virtues are multiplied. Therefore, by observing the 10 days I’tikaf or the entire month in I’tikaf is a great source of abstaining from sins, acquiring more knowledge and it is a month of multiplying virtues. Judge the excellence of I’tikaf through this blessed Hadees: The mother of the believers,

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated the following fragrant saying of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

مَنِ اعۡتَكَفَ اِيۡمَانًا وَّ اِحۡتِسَابًا غُفِرَ لَهُ مَا تَقَدَّمَ مِنۡ ذَنۡبِه

Translation: Whoever observes I’tikaf having faith with the intention to earn reward, all of his previous sins will be forgiven.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 516, Hadees 8480)

یا خدا ماہِ رمضاں کے صدقے سچّی توبہ کی توفیق دیدے

نیک بن جاؤں جی چاہتا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If possible, observe I’tikaf every year. If not possible, then observe I’tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan at least once in your life.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would worship abundantly especially in Ramadan. As Layla-tul-Qadr is hidden in Ramadan, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once observed I’tikaf for the entire month in order to search for this blessed night. Staying in the Masjid is a great blessing, a Mu’takif is so fortunate that he stays in the Masjid leaving all his activities in order to gain the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

It is stated in Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri: The benefits of I’tikaf are obvious, when a person observes I’tikaf, he completely devotes himself in worshipping for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, giving up all worldly affairs and activities that obstruct him in earning the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . All of his time is spent in Salah, either physically or spiritually, because the primary purpose of performing I’tikaf is to wait for Salah with Jama’at and the reward of waiting for Salah is like that of offering Salah. A Mu’takif resembles the angels who do not disobey

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and obey every command of His, he resembles those who glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night and never gets tired of doing so.’

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 212)

Dear Islamic brothers! A Muslim receives many opportunities to perform good deeds during I’tikaf! Acting upon the Sunnah, we should also observe the whole-month I’tikaf once in our life if not every year, and we should also persuade others to do the same. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami has established a department called ‘Majlis I’tikaf’ to strengthen the system of I’tikaf in the month of Ramadan.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Under Majlis I’tikaf, the whole-month and the last ten-days I’tikaf is observed not only in hundreds of Masajid of the country but also in the Masajid of different countries. Observing I’tikaf in them, thousands of Muslims are privileged to offer other Nafl acts of worship besides offering the five daily Salahs with Jama’at. In addition to these acts, Wudu and Ghusl, Salah and fasting and other Shar’i rulings are also taught in I’tikaf. Every day after Zuhr and Taraweeh, one can gain lots of Islamic information in the form of answers full of knowledge and wisdom to the questions asked from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه in 2 Madani Muzakarahs. Furthermore, many who observe I’tikaf, travel with the Madani Qafilahs of teaching the Sunan as the month of Ramadan ends and the night of Shawwal begins (Chand Raat).

رحمتِ حق سے دامن تم آ کر بھرو مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

سُنَّتیں سیکھنے کے لیے آؤ تم مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

فضلِ ربّ سے گناہوں کی کالک دُھلے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

نیکیوں کا تمہیں خوب جذبہ ملے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

بھائی گر چاہتے ہو "نَمازیں پڑھوں" مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

نیکیوں میں تمنّا ہے "آگے بڑھوں" مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

تم کو راحت کی نعمت اگر چاہئے مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اعتکاف

Dawat-e-Islami is a non-political global movement. The Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has reached approximately 192 countries of the world and 97 departments have also been established to organize all Madani activities for the service of Islam. Expenses of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (for boys & girls), Madaris-ul-Madinah (for boys & girls), Madrasa-tul-Madinah Online (for boys & girls) and Madani Channel are not in millions but are in billions. Collect Madani donations for Dawat-e-Islami from your relatives, neighbours and friends etc., relating to them the excellences of spending in the way of Allah by making individual efforts on them. The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Sadaqah [charity] prevents a bad death.

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of lovers of the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, in the country and overseas countries are privileged to observe the whole-month and last ten-days I’tikaf in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. For these lovers of the Beloved Rasool, a very huge arrangement of Langer-e-Razawiyyah is made so that they can attend the Madani Halqahs of Islamic knowledge comfortably and attend the Madani Muzakarahs with undivided attention. Millions are spent for the purpose of Langer-e-Razawiyyah, money is not taken from those who sit for I’tikaf, rather, generous Islamic brothers make their contributions in this great act of virtuous deeds. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the whole-month and the last ten-days I’tikaf will be observed across the country and in overseas countries as well at hundreds of Masajid. In these I’tikaf, thousands of devotees of Ramadan will be privileged to attain the blessings of the blessed moments of the month of Ramadan. With good intentions, all lovers of the Beloved Rasool should make intentions of making their contribution for ‘Langer-e-Razawiyyah’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight is the 27 th night of Rajab and tomorrow will the 27 th day of Rajab. The fast of the 27 th of Rajab is of great excellence: ‘The fortunate person, who observes fast on the 27 th of Rajab, earns the reward of the fasts of 60 months.’ (Return of the Shroud, pp. 8)

A great excellence of the fast of the 27 th of Rajab has been mentioned. Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘There is a day and a night in the month of Rajab that if a person fasts during that day and stands (for worship) during that night, it is as if he has fasted for one hundred years and worshipped at night for one hundred years; and that is the 27 th of Rajab.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 374, Hadees 3811)

The Prophet of creation, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘After Ramadan, the best fasts for honouring Ramadan are the fasts of Sha’ban.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 377, Hadees 3819)

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated, ‘The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would keep fasts throughout Sha’ban.’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: I humbly said, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Do you like fasting in Sha’ban the most?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ records the name of every person who will die this year and I like to be in the state of fasting at the time of my demise.’ (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 4, pp. 277, Hadees 4890)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to observe Nafl fast tomorrow, of Sha’ban and then all the fasts of the month of Ramadan! If only we could succeed in observing the whole-month I’tikaf or the last ten-days I’tikaf! If only we could collect lots of Madani donations with good intentions!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunnahs and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. It is Sunnah t o make Salam when meeting a Muslim.

2. It is Sawab to make Salam to Muslims at every meeting, even if one is frequently leaving and entering a room.

3. It is Sunnah to be the first in making Salam .

4. The one who makes Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

5. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who makes Salam first is free from pride. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 433, vol. 6)

6. Ninety mercies descend upon the one who makes Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

7. One receives 10 good deeds for saying اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ, 20 good deeds if وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ is further added, 30 if وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ is also added.

8. The one replying can receive 30 good deeds as well by saying وَ عَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ الل ّٰ ہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ in return.

9. It is Wajib [ obligatory] to reply with Salam immediately in a voice audible to the one who greeted you with Salam .

8. Learn the correct pronunciation of the Salam . First, I will say it then you repeat after me (اَسْ ۔ سَلَا ۔ مُ ۔ عَلَی ۔ کُمْ) اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, وَ عَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ (وَ ۔ عَ ۔ لَیْكُ ۔ مُسْ ۔ سَلَام) .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar -e- Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat -e- Islami . One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat -e- Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet .

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

