اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Imam-e-A’zam

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃً لَہُ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ القِیَامَۃِ ’ Whoever recites Salat (Durood) upon

me on the day of Friday, I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Imam-e-A’zam’s status in the court of Beloved Rasool

Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh ‘Ali Hajwayri Hanafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a great devotion to Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah Nu’man Bin Saabit رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: One day while traveling in Syria I visited the blessed Raudah of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the Muazzin of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . There I fell asleep and found myself in Makkah Mu’azzamah. What I saw was that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was at the door of the tribe ‘Bani Shaybah’ and holding an elderly man as a small child is held. Overwhelmed with love I moved towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and kissed his blessed feet. In my heart, I was also very surprised as to who this weak person was. In the meantime, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knew the state of my astonishment by virtue of his spiritual power and blessed knowledge of Ghayb (unseen) and while addressing said to me, ‘He is Abu Hanifah and [he] is your Imam’.

After relating this dream, Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: From this, I have understood that Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is one of those blessed personages whose attributes are forever like the established rulings of Shari’ah. That is why the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم loves him so much. From the love which he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has for Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه it can be understood that the way it is not possible for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to make a mistake, in the same way, by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also safe from [committing] mistakes. (Kashf-ul-Mahjoob, pp. 101)

ہمارے آقا ہمارے مَولٰی، امامِ اعظم ابُو حنیفہ

ہمارے ملجاء ہمارے ماویٰ امامِ اعظم ابُو حنیفہ

زمانہ بھر نے زمانہ بھر میں بہت تَجسُّس کیا و لیکن

مِلا نہ کوئی اِمام تم سا امامِ اعظم ابُو حنیفہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable not only have we learnt about the glory and greatness of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, but we have also learnt that by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also aware of the conditions of the hearts. Hence answering to the question arose in Sayyiduna Daata Ganj Bakhsh’s mind in his dream, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: He is Abu Hanifah and he is your Imam. It was a dream. Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave many news of Ghayb even during his blessed apparent life by Divine bestowal.

Sight restored

Sayyidatuna Unaysah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that her father stated: When I fell ill, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to inquire after me and after looking at me said: This illness will not harm you, but what will be your condition when after my (apparent) demise you will go blind after living a long time? Having heard this I humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! At that time I will have patience for the sake of earning reward. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If you do it, you will enter Paradise without any accountability. After the apparent demise of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he lost his sight, then after a period of time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ restored his sight and he passed away.

(Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 6, pp. 479)

Difference between personal and bestowed knowledge of Ghayb

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to this narration, Satan may instil this evil thought in someone’s heart that when only Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the knowledge of the Ghayb so how did the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم give the news of Ghayb? So it is humbly stated that there is no doubt that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ عَالِمُ الْغَیْبِ وَالشَّہادَۃ ’. His knowledge of Ghayb is His own and it has always been with Him forever, whereas the knowledge of Ghayb of blessed Ambiya and pious saints is bestowed and it has not always been with them as well. They possess it from the time when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ imparts it to them and they possess it to the extent Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed it to them; they do not possess the knowledge of even a particle without the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Now the question arises as to who has been bestowed with how much knowledge of

Ghayb? So the One Who imparts knows it and the one who gains knows it. In Ayah 24 of Surah At-Takweer, part 30, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated about the unseen knowledge of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

وَ مَا هُوَ عَلَى الْغَیْبِ بِضَنِیْنٍۚ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And he (the Rasool) is not a miser to disclosethe unseen. (Part 30, Surah At-Takweer, Ayah 24)

Regarding the blessed Ayah, it is stated in Tafseer Khaazin: This blessed Ayah implies that when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم attains knowledge of the Ghayb, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not become stingy in this regard, but rather he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم imparts it to you. (Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 4, pp. 357)

From this blessed Ayah and its Tafseer it has become obvious that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم imparts the knowledge of Ghayb to people and obviously the one who himself knows will tell.

Scholarly status of Imam-e-A’zam in the sight of Beloved Rasool

Giving news of one knowledge of Ghayb, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ لَوۡ كَانَ الۡعِلۡمُ بِالثُّرَيَّا لَتَنَاوَلَه ٗ اُنَاسٌ مِّنۡ اَبۡنَاءِ فَارس ’ If knowledge were suspended in the Surayya [the Pleiades], some people from the descendants of Persia would get it even from there . (Musnad Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 154, Hadees 7955)

Sayyiduna Imam Ibn Hajar Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: This sacred Hadees refers to the blessed personality of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and there is no doubt in this fact as in his era, no one from people of Persia attained the status regarding knowledge that he had, or rather no one even attained the scholarly status that his students had. It also contains the clear miracle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the news of Ghayb, that is, he stated what was going to happen.

(Al-Khayraat-ul-Hassan, pp. 24)

Dear Islamic brothers! This fact is ‘ اَظۡهَرُ مِنَ الشَّمۡسِ وَ اَبۡيَنُ مِنَ الۡاَمۡس ’ (i.e., brighter than the sun and more certain than the past), that our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has got knowledge of Ghayb by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ hence he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave the news of Imam-e-A’zam’s excellent scholarly competence and ability even before the blessed birth of Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The way our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mentioned, it happened the same way. When Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came into this world, the popularity of his blessed knowledge spread in all directions and knowledge spread everywhere.

If we look at the literal meaning of his blessed name, “Nu’man”, we find that he is surely the testimony of his blessed name. Shaykh-ul-Islam Shahabuddin, Imam Ahmad Ibn Hajar Haytami Makki Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Islamic scholars have consensus that his name is “Nu’man”, and a very pleasant and graceful factor lies in his blessed name. And that is, Nu’man’s actual meaning is such blood which forms [the skeleton of] human body, so the reason behind calling Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه by the name of ‘Nu’man’ is that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is the foundation of Islamic jurisprudence. (Al-Khayraat-ul-Hisaan, pp. 31)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Name, lineage, title & Kunyah

His blessed name is Nu’man, his father’s name is Saabit and his Kunyah is Abu Hanifah [and his title is Imam-e-A’zam]. He was born in 80 AH in ‘Kufa’ and passed away [on the 2 nd Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam] 150 AH at the age of 70. (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 219)

His blessed shrine is situated in the graveyard of Baghdad and is the centre of attraction of people even today. (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 325) All four Imams of Fiqh, (viz. Imam Abu Hanifah, Imam Shaafi’i, Imam Maalik and Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) are rightful and their followers of correct belief are brothers to one another. Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah’s rank is the highest among all four Imams. One of the reasons for this is that he is the

only Taabi’i among these four. ‘Taabi’i refers to the one who met any blessed companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in the state of Iman [faith] and also passed away in the state of Iman’. (Nuzha-tul-Qaari, pp. 113)

According to different narrations, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to meet few blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also heard the blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم directly from some of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Al-Khayraat-ul-Hassan, pp. 33)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Attributes of Imam-e-A’zam

Sayyiduna Abu Nu’aym رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The appearance and state, face, clothes and shoes of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه were good; he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would help everyone who would visit him. (Akhbar Abi Hanifah-o-Ashaabah, pp. 16)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was of medium height; he would converse with all people in a very good manner and would abundantly use fragrance (‘Itr). When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would go out, he would be recognized due to his pleasant fragrance. (Akhbar Abi Hanifah-o-Ashaabah, pp. 17)

Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite the Holy Quran along with propagating Islamic knowledge throughout the day and would spend the whole night in worship and spiritual exercise. Sayyiduna Mis’ar Bin Kidaam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I once went to the Masjid of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, I saw that after offering Salat-ul-Fajr, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه imparted Islamic knowledge to the people throughout the day. During this time, he only took breaks for Salah. After Salat-ul-‘Isha, he went to his home.

After a short while, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to the Masjid in simple clothes, wearing much fragrance and with a luminous face became busy offering Nafl Salah in a corner of the Masjid until the dawn. Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned home and came back after changing his dress and offered Fajr Salah

with Jama’at [congregation]. After offering Salah with Jama’at, he continued to teach and deliver Dars like the previous day until Isha. I thought that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have been exhausted, so he would surely rest tonight, but he followed the same routine the second night as well. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent the third day and night in the same way.

I was very impressed and decided that I would serve him throughout my life. So I started living in his Masjid permanently. During my stay, I never saw Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه without Sawm in the day and heedless of worship and Nawafil in the night. However, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would take a little rest before Zuhr. (Al-Manaqib lil-Muwaffaq, vol. 1, pp. 230-231; Ashkon ki Barsaat, pp. 6)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Halqah, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Following in the footsteps of Imam-e-A’zam we should also get into the habit of performing worship, reciting the Holy Quran and doing Zikr and reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly. An easy way of it is to become busy with 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah by being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for the progress in righteous acts. One of the 12 Madani activities is Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah in which three Quranic Ayahs are recited with their translation of Kanz-ul-Iman and Tafseer of Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan / Tafseer Noor-ul-‘Irfan / Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat (4 pages). At the end, Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, ‘Attariyyah is read and listened. Afterwards some Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations) from Shajarah are read and Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht are also offered.

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also propagate the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami as much as possible through 12 Madani activities by associating ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Staying within the boundaries of Shari’ah we should try to make our Hereafter better along with the world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Madani environment helps greatly to reform spoilt people. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion depicting the benefits of association to Madani environment.

Got rid of spiritual and physical diseases

Before being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, an Islamic brother living in Nai Basti, Moradabad (UP, India) was suffering from many diseases. Neither did he offer Salahs, nor had the passion for acting upon Sunnahs. It had become his routine to adopt new fashions and commit immodest acts. He was also physically ill besides having the disease of sins. He had a nasal polyp (obstruction in nasal passage) and also a chest pain due to which he would suffer from mental torture. Fortunately, once he was privileged to travel with a Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami for learning Sunnah. As he had the company of devotees of Rasool, a Madani reformation occurred in his life. By virtue of spending time in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he started feeling ashamed of his bad deeds. He repented of all of his sins and associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the Du’a made in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon the return from Madani Qafilah not only had his nasal polyp got better, but in a few days he also got rid of his heart disease.

لوٹنے رحمتیں قافلے میں چلو سیکھنے سُنّتیں قافلے میں چلو

ہوں گی حل مشکلیں قافلے میں چلو دور ہوں آفتیں قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Manner of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam’s trade!

Dear Islamic brothers! Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also took up the occupation of trade to earn Halal livelihood along with teaching and delivering Dars and the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He did not only do good to people and follow Shar’i principles himself in trade, but he would also urge those who would work with him.

Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to do trade with Sayyiduna Hafs Bin ‘Abdur Rahman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and would send him goods for trade. Once sending some goods to him he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘O Hafs! Such and such a cloth has some defect; mention the defect when you sell it.’ He

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sold the goods [cloth], but forgot to mention the defect at the time of selling it; he did not even remember who he sold it to. When Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه learnt about it, he gave the price of the entire cloth in Sadaqah. (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 356)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that when the business partner of Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sold a defective thing by mistake, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not use its price, but rather he gave it in Sadaqah. But alas! In our society, goods are sold not by mistake, but rather purposely by swearing false oaths after concealing their faults.

We have lost our moral values to such an extent that if our child succeeds in selling something to someone very expensive by telling a lie or cheating, we consider it to be a great achievement and showing appreciation utter such sentences: Dear son, now you also have learnt, you have learnt how to do business, you have become sensible etc. However, on such an occasion, we should give Madani upbringing to our children by saying: Dear son, do not do business by telling a lie and cheating, otherwise, due to its curse our business and wealth will have a downfall and we will be destroyed and we might also become deserving of Divine torment by being disgraced in the Hereafter. A cheater should ponder over this blessed Hadees. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ لَا يُؤۡمِنُ اَحَدُكُمۡ حَتّٰى يُحِبَّ لِاَخِيۡهِ مَا يُحِبُّ لِنَفۡسِهٖ ’ i.e., None of you can become a true Mu`min [true Muslim] until he likes for his brother the thing that he likes for himself . (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 16, Hadees 13)

Therefore, who will like that he be given adulterated thing, he be given goods by cheating or by lying, interest be charged from him, bribe be taken from him and he be made to lose his money by taking advantage of his naiveness? Surely, no one will like all these things for himself, then why is it thought for Muslim brothers …?

Cheaters are not one of us!

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by a heap of grain. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his blessed

hand into it. when the blessed fingers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم felt wetness in it he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘O the owner of this grain, what is this?’ The man humbly replied, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Rain has fallen on it.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘So why didn’t you put wet grain on top of the heap for people to see it? The one who cheats is not among us.’

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Iman, pp. 65, Hadees 102)

Dear Islamic brothers! From this blessed Hadees, it has been learnt that to conceal the naturally developed defect is also a crime. Look, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarded the concealment of the rain-soaked grain as an adulteration. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 273)

Keeping in view the Shar’i principles, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ save us from telling lies and the destruction of cheating in business.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Piety and abstinence of Imam-e-A’zam!

Dear Islamic brothers! Cheating Muslims is a very bad habit. Remember! If we sell any defective thing without mentioning [the defect] by swearing false oaths, we have violated the right of the buyer, for which we will have to pay on the Judgement Day.

Therefore, in order to stay safe from the disgrace of the Judgment Day, we should not delay fulfilling the rights of people which are upon us and should immediately apologize to those whose rights we violated in the past. We should be very cautious about it in future. For this, it is very necessary to keep control especially over the tongue because it is the tongue that makes us commit more sins. This tongue may bring disgrace upon us on the Judgement Day by making us utter harsh remarks to someone or by making us commit backbiting against someone. That is why Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would protect his tongue and speak very little. Sayyiduna Shareek رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very intelligent, he often remained silent and used to avoid arguing with people despite being a very great Jurist. (Al-Khayraat-ul-Hassan, pp. 56)

Sayyiduna Ibn Mubarak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I humbly said to Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه avoids backbiting so much that I have never heard him committing backbiting even against his enemy. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 77) So he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! He is very sensible in this matter as he does not want his virtuous deeds to be overcome by any such thing that transfers them [to the Book of Deeds of any other person]. (Akhbar Abi Hanifah-o-Ashaabah, pp. 42)

Sayyiduna Dumayrah [ ضُمَیرہ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ] has said: No one has any difference of opinion regarding the fact that Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the one who would speak the truth, who would never speak ill of anyone. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was once asked: People speak ill of you, but you do not say anything to anyone. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: It [my act of having patience] is a grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and He bestows it upon whoever He wants.

Sayyiduna Bukayr Bin Ma’roof رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: In the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I have not seen anyone more well-mannered than Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Al-Khayraat-ul-Hassan, pp. 56)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Imam-e-A’zam’s insight!

On page 396 of Nayki ki Da’wat a great book of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه it is stated: ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Once Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the Wudu area of Jaami’ Masjid of Kufa. He saw a young man performing Wudu; drops [of water] of Wudu were dripping down. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘O son! Repent of the disobedience to parents.’ ‘I have repented’, he immediately replied. Seeing the drops of [water used in] Wudu of another person he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to him: ‘O my brother! You repent of fornication.’ ‘I have repented’, he humbly replied. Seeing the drops of Wudu dripping down another person, the Imam said to him, ‘Repent of drinking wine and listening to songs and music.’ He humbly replied, ‘I have repented.’ Due to the Kashf, faults of people would get disclosed before Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he

made a Du’a in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the removal of this Kashf. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted his Du’a due to which he then could not see any more the sins of people falling off while making Wudu. (Al-Meezan-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 130)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the saintly sight of Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the leader of millions of Hanafis, that would see the acts of disobedience of people dripping down in Wudu. Undoubtedly, it was his great saintly miracle, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not like to be informed about the faults of people. Hence he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made a Du’a for the removal of this attribute and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepted his Du’a.

Here the people, who express devotion to Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, but then by cross-questioning forcibly find faults with people, should learn a lesson. Remember! Getting information deliberately about the fault of a Muslim without any Shar’i reason is a sin and Haraam and an act leading to Hell. In Ayah 12 of Surah Al-Hujurat part 26, it is clearly stated:

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not

search for (hidden) faults. وَ لَا تَجَسَّسُوْا

If the fault is disclosed to someone in a way that he gets aware whose fault it is, it is another sin. If it is a fault of an Islamic scholar and it has been disclosed, so the sin will increase further. In Kimiya-e-Sa’adat, Sayyiduna Imam Abu Haamid Muhammad Bin Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Mentioning the fault of an Islamic scholar is Haraam for two reasons—firstly, it is backbiting, secondly, people will become bold and they will follow it by making it an evidence (they will boldly make the same mistakes) and Satan will also help them (those who follow the mistakes) and will say to them (for making them bold in committing sins): You [also do like such and such because you] are not more pious than that Islamic scholar. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat, vol. 1, pp. 410)

The more people he informs about the mistake, the more sins will increase. A Muslim should avoid, first of all, knowing the faults of people and if someone starts telling him the fault, even then he should avoid listening to it. For example, if a Muslim sees or finds the fault of another Muslim by any means, he should conceal it. He should not mention it to anyone at all without any Shar’i reason.

Two blessed sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about concealing faults:

1 The person who removes the trouble of a Muslim, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remove his trouble out of the troubles of the Judgement Day and the one who conceals the fault of a Muslim, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will conceal his faults on the Judgement Day. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1394, Hadees 6580)

2 The one who conceals the fault of his brother after seeing it, will be made to enter Jannah. (Musnad ‘Abd Bin Humayd, pp. 279, Hadees 885)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Adopt cleanliness!

Sayyiduna Qays Bin Rabi’ رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would accumulate trading goods from his earnings, then he would buy clothing with that and present them to great Islamic scholars, Muhaddiseen and needy people and then would say [to the needy], ‘Glorify Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because He has bestowed it upon you. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not given you anything out of my wealth.’

If anyone would visit him, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would inquire about him and if he was needy, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would give him something. Once a person came to him wearing worn-out clothes. When people left, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked him to sit. When he was alone, Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Lift this prayer mat and take what is lying beneath it’. He lifted the prayer mat and found 1000 dirhams underneath. Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘Take these dirhams and improve your condition.’ He humbly said, ‘Your Honour! I am

already prosperous, I have blessings and I do not need it.’ Then Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Have you not heard this Hadees: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes to see the effect of His blessing upon His bondman [1] ; you should improve your condition so that your friend may not feel sad about your condition.’ (Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 358, Raqm 7297)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes neat people!

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable not only have we learnt that we should help the poor and destitute Muslims, we have also learnt that we should also stay neat and clean. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Islam has not only purified a man from the impurities of Shirk (polytheism) and elevated his status and honour after blessing him with faith, it has also commanded him to keep the respect of humanity elevated through apparent purity, neatness and cleanliness, and great teachings of purity. Islam teaches us to keep everything neat and clean and attractive whether it is purity of body or neatness of dress, apparent appearance or good traits and manners, home and luggage or vehicle; in short everything should be kept neat, clean and attractive. In Ayah 222 of Surah Al-Baqarah part 2 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

اِنَّ اللّٰهَ یُحِبُّ التَّوَّابِیْنَ وَ یُحِبُّ الْمُتَطَهِّرِیْنَ(۲۲۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah loves those who repent profusely, and He loves those who purify themselves.

(Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 222)

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Undoubtedly, Islam is a neat and clean [religion]. Therefore, you also attain cleanliness because only the one who stays neat and clean will enter Jannah. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 5, pp. 123, Hadees 25996)

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin Hanzalah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The clothes which you wear, keep it neat and clean, and look after your mounts [riding animals], and your physical appearance should be clean in a way that when you go to [meet] people, they respect you. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 22, Hadees 257)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our beloved Deen provides us with the matchless teachings of physical purity along with spiritual or inner purity. Therefore, we should also pay considerable attention and keep our clothes, body, ‘Imamah (Islamic turban), chador, shoes, vehicle, home, street and markets etc., neat and clean. Especially before entering the Masjid, wear clean clothes, have a bath (Ghusl) or perform Wudu properly and wear pleasant fragrance with the intention of showing respect to the Masjid, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ it will bring Khushu-o-Khudu’ (humility of body and heart) in worshipping.

If we develop these virtuous habits in ourselves and especially in our children, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ they will adopt these blessed virtues since their childhood and they will grow up as a good Muslim.

Introduction of Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, ‘Dawat-e-Islami’ is not only making efforts committedly to reform the older people through Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Madani Qafilah, Madani Daurah, Madani Tarbiyyati course, Fard ‘Uloom course, Madani Channel and Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat etc., but also Dawat-e-Islami has left no stone unturned in reforming the children through education and Tarbiyyat (learning).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For providing Madani children with worldly and Islamic education, Dar-ul-Madinah schooling system, under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami’, has also been launched so that Madani children could grow up to be honourable Muslims; rather by acquiring professional education and becoming self-sufficient individuals, they could gain prominent position in the society. Therefore, we ourselves should keep associating with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and enrol our children too in Dar-ul-Madinah for their reform and Madani Tarbiyyat. Your children, by following in the

footsteps of pious people, will make their future bright along with becoming the practicing Muslims, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The deprived people

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the reasons behind delivering the parables of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی is also that we listen to their blessed life history so that we strive and mould ourselves into practicing Muslims by following their blessed lives. In addition to that, we should seek true repentance from sins and try our best to follow in the footsteps of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی especially Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . We will then have privilege to have abundance of blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is our good fortune that the blessed month of Sha’ban is showering its blessings and it is the blessed month, in which, Shab-e-Bara`at (i.e., the great night of salvation) comes along. Remember! Shab-e-Bara`at is extremely important night and it must not be spent carelessly. A shower of special blessings is descended in this sacred night. In this blessed night, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ frees people from Hell more than the number of hairs on the goats of the tribe Bani Kalb. It is mentioned in authentic books that the tribe of Bani Kalb had the largest number of goats among the tribes of Arabia.

Alas! There are some unfortunate people who are not forgiven even on Shab-e- Bara`at i.e. the night of deliverance. Shaykh Imam Bayhaqi Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has reported in ‘ Fadaail-ul-Awqat ’: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Six (6) men [types of people] will not be forgiven even during this blessed night:

1 A habitual drunkard

2 The one who is disobedient to parents

3 The one who commits fornication

4 The one who breaks off relations

5 The one who sketches portraits

6 The tale-bearer. (Fadaail-ul-Awqat, pp. 130, vol. 1, Hadees 27)

So, what all Muslims should do is that if مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ anybody has indulged in any of the above mentioned evil acts, he should seek true repentance for that particular sin and for all the sins in general as well, before the arrival of Shab-e-Bara`at; rather, he should firmly repent right now without any delay. If someone has violated the rights of others, then, in addition to repentance, he should apologise and compensate them. (Aqa ka Maheena, pp. 11)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

Sunan and manners of treating others with kindness

First listen to the two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ On the Day of Judgement, three types of people will be under the shade of the ‘Arsh of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One who treats relatives with kindness (will be among them). (Al-Firdaus bima Saur-ul-Khattab, vol. 2, pp. 99, Hadees 2526)

٭ One believing in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Judgement Day should treat relatives with kindness. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 136, Hadees 6138)

٭ Muslims have been unconditionally commanded in Ahadees to treat relatives with kindness. The words ‘ ذَوِي الۡقُرۡبٰي ’ (i.e. relatives) were unconditionally stated in the Holy Quran. However, as there are different levels in relationship, there are also different levels of treating relatives with kindness, depending upon how close a relative.

٭ Treating others with kindness is a blessed Sunnah of our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘treating others with kindness’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

٭ Parents hold the greatest status in treating relatives with kindness.

٭ One can treat his relatives with kindness in different ways. For example, giving them gifts, providing them help if they need it, saying Salam to them, meeting them, talking to them and treating them gracefully and nicely. (Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

٭ One should meet his relatives on alternate days or with gaps, as appropriate, as it will develop affection. One can also meet his relatives weekly or monthly. The whole family and community should be united. One should also help his relatives when they are in the right in any issue. All of them should favour the truth with unity. (Durad, vol. 1, pp. 323)

٭ Kind treatment does not only mean treating those relatives kindly who have treated you kindly. This is actually an ‘exchange of treatment’. For example, sending a gift to the relative who has sent you a gift or going to the house of one who comes to yours. In actual fact, kind treatment means establishing ties with one who cuts off ties with you and caring about the relative who ignores you and stays away from you.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 678)

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

