اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Saintly Miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me, his Salat reaches me; I make Istighfar (pray for his forgiveness) for him, and besides this, 10 virtues are written for him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

گندے نکمّے کمین مہنگے ہوں کوڑی کے تین

کون ہمیں پالتا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Blessing of Ghaus-e-A’zam’s Du’a

Sayyiduna Shaykh Isma’eel Bin ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Ali Bin Haytami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill, he sometimes would come to my land at Zareeraan and spend many days there. Once, he fell ill over there, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to look after him from Baghdad. Thus, both pious saints رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی gathered on my land. There were two date trees which had been dry for four years and did not bear any fruit. We intended to cut them down. Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Wudu under one of them and offered two Rak’aat Nafl Salah under the other one. Before my eyes, both trees turned green; their leaves started appearing and during the same week, they both bore fruit, though it was not the season of bearing dates. I took some dates from my land and presented them to him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ate some of them and said to me: ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant blessings in your land, your dirham, your Saa’ (specific measure) and the milk (of your animals)!’

Sayyiduna Shaykh Isma’eel Bin ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: My land has started producing crops twofold to fourfold as compared to last year. Now when I spend one dirham, I get things two to threefold and when I keep 100 bags of wheat in any house, and spend 50 bags out of them and see the remaining ones, I find 100 bags over there. My animals give birth to so many babies that I forget even their count. This state still continues by the blessing of Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 91)

بَہار آئے میرے بھی اُجڑے چَمن میں چَلا کوئی ایسی ہَوا غَوثِ اَعظَم

رہے شاد و آباد میرا گَھرانا کَرم اَز پئے مُصطَفٰے غَوثِ اَعظَم

سُلطانِ وِلایت غَوثِ پاک وَلیوں پہ حکومت غَوثِ پاک

شَہبازِ خِطابَت غَوثِ پاک فانُوسِ ہِدایَت غَوثِ پاک

مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned parable contains many Madani pearls. For example, our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would follow Sunnah strictly. In addition to acting upon other Sunnahs, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also act upon the Sunnah of inquiring after the sick. Therefore, following in the footsteps of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we should also act upon the Sunnah of inquiring after the patients. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in the books of Ahadees, great virtues of visiting to inquire after the sick have been mentioned at many places. Let’s listen to three sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for persuasion:

1. When a Muslim visits his Muslim brother to inquire after him, he remains in the garden of Paradise until he returns (from him).

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1065, Hadees 2568)

2. If the Muslim who visits any Muslim to inquire after his health in the morning, 70,000 angels pray for him till evening, and if he visits in the evening, 70,000 angels pray for him till morning. And for him, there will be a garden in Paradise. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 290, Hadees 971)

3. The one who makes proper Wudu and visits his Muslim brother to inquire after him with the intention of receiving reward, will be kept away from Hell [equal to] the distance of 70 years. (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 248, Hadees 3097)

In regard to this blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A sick person should be paid a visit in the state of Wudu because visiting a sick means worship and worship is better if performed in Wudu. Further, while inquiring after a patient, one has to make Du’a and make Dam (blow) on the patient after reciting something. Hence, it is better to be in Wudu for making Du’a and Dam. Some people sacrifice animals, do Fatihah and make Isal-e-Sawab in the state of Wudu, or rather cook and eat the food of Giyarhween Shareef in the state of Wudu. This Hadees authenticates their act. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 416)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed how great is the deed of visiting sick Muslims to inquire after their health! The one who visits a Muslim to inquire after his health remains in the garden of Paradise until he returns. Innocent angels

make Du’a for the one who inquires after a sick Muslim; the one who inquires after a sick Muslim will be given a garden in Paradise; the one who inquires after a sick Muslim will be kept away from Hell at the distance of 70 years.

Remember! Inquiring after a sick person is an act of reward, but sometimes those who inquire after the patient become a trouble for the patient instead of comfort. Asking about details of the illness unnecessarily, giving different types of advice despite having no knowledge in the medical field and asking other useless questions troubles the patient and displeases his heart. Anyway, while inquiring after a sick person, we should take great care of the patient’s medical condition. If we feel that our presence is causing inconvenience to the patient, we should leave soon. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اَفْضَلُ الْعِیَادَۃِ سُرْعَۃُ الْقِیَام ’ the best (way of) inquiring after someone is to get up soon. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 542, Hadees 9221)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: All these are on the condition that the sick person finds his (visitor’s) sitting inconvenient. (Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 2, pp. 433)

Allamah ‘Ali Qaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: When it is presumed that the patient prefers someone’s company e.g., the visitor is his friend or a pious man or he considers the visitor better for himself or gets any other benefit, in such situations there is no harm if that person (visitor) sits with the patient for a long time. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 4, pp. 60, Taht-al-Hadees 1591)

Second Madani pearl, in the above-mentioned parable, is that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed saintly miracles; by virtue of the blessing of his blessed self, even dry trees turned green and started bearing out-of-season fruit. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had such a great and elevated status and rank in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that fortune would smile on the person for whom he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Du’a of blessing as he was Mustajaab-ud-Da’waat, that is, his Du’as were very much answered. From the above-mentioned parable, it has been understood that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only blessed the land of Shaykh Isma’eel Bin ‘Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with his blessed presence, but he also made Du’a of blessings for him. His Du’a for him was answered and in a short period of time, not only the production of the grain increased twofold to

fourfold, but his animals also increased to such an extent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could not count them.

It has become obvious that the Du’a of Allah-loving people is very effective. Therefore, whenever we are privileged to visit Allah-loving people, we should consider it a great opportunity and instead of requesting them to make Du’a for us to get wealth, fame and post and achieve other worldly purposes; we should, with great respect, request them to make Du’a for the protection of faith, steadfastness in virtuous deeds, salvation from sins, forgiveness without any accountability and a respectful visit of Haramayn Sharifayn.

Requesting the righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to make Du’a had been the practice of our pious predecessors. Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made it compulsory for us to request righteous people to make Du’a for us because they spend their nights in worship and days in observing Siyam and stay away from sins. (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 219, Hadees 3590)

تمہارا فَضل ہے جو میں غُلامِ غَوث و خَواجہ ہوں

نہ ہو کم اَولِیا کی دِل سے اُلفت یا رَسُولَ الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to a parable of A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about ‘requesting saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی for making Du’as’.

Went for Du’a

A’la Hadrat, Imam of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: (During my first journey to Madinah, I was present in the Masjid of Mina whereas all other people had left). In the interior part of the Masjid was a man with his face towards the Qiblah, reciting invocations. I was sitting in the courtyard of the Masjid near the door. There was no other person. All of a sudden, I heard a buzzing sound like that of a bee. I recalled

the following Hadees instantly, ‘A sound is produced by the heart of the beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ like the buzzing sound of a bee.’ (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 2, pp. 180, Hadees 1898)

Discontinuing my invocations, I moved towards him to request him to pray for my forgiveness. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have never requested any saint to fulfil any worldly need. Instead, I always requested them to pray for my forgiveness. Well, I had walked only two steps towards him when he said three times with his hands raised towards the sky and his face turned towards me: ‘ اَللّٰهُمَّ اغۡفِرۡ لِاَخِيۡ هٰذَا اَللّٰهُمَّ اغۡفِرۡ لِاَخِيۡ هٰذَا اَللّٰهُمَّ اغۡفِرۡ لِاَخِيۡ هٰذَا ’ (O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive this brother of mine! O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive this brother of mine! O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive this brother of mine!) I understood what he meant, i.e. he did what I wanted and now he did not want to be interrupted. Hence I returned. (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 490)

کرم ہو واسِطَہ کُل اَولِیاء کا

مِرا اِیماں پہ مَولٰی خاتِمَہ ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The way we get our problems solved by virtue of the Du’as of pious saints, in the same way, if they make Du’a against someone after being annoyed, so he becomes an admonitory lesson for people.

Pious people’s Du’a and impact of their curse

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The supplications of beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, such as Islamic scholars, pious saints and all righteous people against someone are very dangerous and bear calamity full of destructiveness. The curse of these pious predecessors is such a sword that no shield can withstand against its strike; it is the poisonous arrow of destruction which never misses its target. Therefore, it is compulsory for every Muslim to take special care throughout his life that he saves himself from their bad supplication by not disrespecting the pious

people even a little bit, but rather he should continue to make efforts to gain the Du’as of righteous people because if righteous people supplicate against someone, it becomes a horrible sign of destruction, and their Du’as are extremely beneficial.

It is stated at another place: The Du’as of Allah-loving people are like the arrow which does not miss its target at all after being shot from the bow. Therefore, we should take great care that we do not become the victim of any curse and should not say like the people who have no knowledge of Islam: ‘Nothing will happen by anyone’s Du’a or curse; their cursing threats are all fake’. Instead, we should believe that the Du’as and curse of pious people are very effective. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 163)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The love and devotion, eminence and greatness to Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in our hearts will keep growing after listening to his saintly miracles, but before this, let’s listen to his brief introduction.

Blessed name and lineage of Ghaus-e-A’zam

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born on 1 st Ramadan 470 AH in Jeelan. His name is ‘Abdul Qaadir and Kunyah is ‘Abu Muhammad’. Muhiyyuddin, Mahboob-e-Subhani, Ghaus-e-A’zam, Ghaus-us-Saqalayn etc., are his blessed titles. His father’s name was Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Musa Jangi Dost رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his mother’s name was Umm-ul-Khayr Fatimah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a Sayyid from both his parents i.e. Hasani from his father and Husayni from his mother. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 171-172)

تُو حُسَینی حَسَنی کیوں نہ مُحِیُّ الدِّیں ہو

اے خِضَر مَجمَعِ بَحرَین ہے چشمہ تیرا

Wonderful parables

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is from the class of those great pious saints who were saints by birth. Miracles started occurring from him before and after his blessed birth. His respected mother used to say اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه after sneezing, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would reply from the womb saying يَرۡحَمُكِ اللّٰه (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you!).

Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born on Monday, the first of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak at the time of dawn. At that time, his lips were moving slowly and the voice ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ was heard. On the day of his birth, 1100 babies were born in Jeelan; all of them were boys and all of them became saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه observed Sawm on the day he was born. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fed on his mother’s milk when the sun set. It became his blessed routine throughout the sacred month of Ramadan. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 172)

پیدا ہوتے ہی رکھے رَمَضاں میں روزے، دن میں دُودھ

کا نہ اک قَطرہ پِیا یا غَوثِ اَعظَم دَستگیر

سُلطانِ وِلایت غَوثِ پاک وَلیوں پہ حکومت غَوثِ پاک

شَہبازِ خِطابَت غَوثِ پاک فانُوسِ ہِدایَت غَوثِ پاک

مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک

Dear Islamic brothers! Usually when a baby is in the womb of his mother, for him the womb of his mother is everything. He is unaware of the outside world and whatever is in it. But the people Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants special grace and favours and blesses with sainthood remain aware of the conditions of the outside world even being in the wombs of their mothers.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also such a great and most beloved pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but rather the chief of all pious saints, who despite being in the blessed womb of his respected mother not only

would hear the voice of the recitation of the Holy Quran of his mother, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also had memorized 18 parts of the Holy Quran before coming into this mortal world.

Memorized 18 parts of the Holy Quran

When Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was sent to a saint to recite ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the age of five, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited ‘ اَعُوۡذُ ’ and ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ and then recited from the first part to the 18th part of the Holy Quran. The pious said, ‘Son! Continue to recite.’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘This is all what I have memorized because my mother also memorized this much. When I was in my mother’s womb, my mother would recite up to the 18 th part of the Glorious Quran so I had memorized this much by listening to her.’ (Al-Haqaaiq fil Hadaiq, vol. 1, pp. 140)

تُو ہے وہ غوث کہ ہر غوث ہے شیدا تیرا

تُو ہے وہ غیث کہ ہر غیث ہے پیاسا تیرا

Introduction to book ‘Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat’

Dear Islamic brothers! To gain more information about the life history of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his saintly miracles, it is very useful to study the 106-page book ‘ Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat ’, published by the publishing department, Maktaba-tul-Madinah. This remarkable book not only contains numerous saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, but also unfolds the blessed childhood of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his great level of knowledge and piety, blessed sayings and Manqabats (poems) written in praises of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as well as praising comments of other blessed saints for Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as their devotion to him. All these topics have been outlined in a very nice manner.

Introduction to booklet ‘Ambiya-o-Awliya ko Pukarna Kaysa?’

Study the booklet ‘ Ambiya-o-Awliya ko Pukarna Kaysa? ’ consisting of the Madani Muzakarahs of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder

of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This booklet contains the proof of asking help from Ambiya عَلَيْهِمُ السَّلَام and Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, the saintly miracles, interesting events, the meaning and reality of Taubah (repentance), meaning of Khushu’-o-Khudu’ (humility of heart and mind) and its importance in Salah and many more Madani pearls besides these have been mentioned. Therefore, buy these two booklets from the stalls of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and not only study it yourself, but also persuade other Islamic brothers to do so. This book can also be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Definition of saintly miracle and its (Shar’i) ruling

Dear Islamic brothers! We will further listen to saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . But before this, let’s listen to what ‘saintly miracle’ is. Let’s listen to its definition.

It is stated on page 36 of Karamaat-e-Sahabah a book published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, Maktaba-tul-Madinah: If a pious believer performs something extraordinary (that is against the nature) and astounding which he does not perform normally, is called a saintly miracle (Karamah). Whereas if such a thing is performed by Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام before [the declaration of] Prophethood it is called ‘Irhaas’; and if it is performed after the declaration of Prophethood, then it is called a Mu’jizah (miracle). If a similar act is performed by an ordinary Mu`min (true believer) it is called Ma’oonat. If such a thing is performed by a non-Muslim as per his wish, then it is called as Istidraaj. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 36)

‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The saintly-miracle of Islamic saints is true and the denier of it is a deviant person. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 269)

Saintly-miracle has many types: For example, raising the dead from the grave, curing the blind and lepers, travelling long distances in moments, walking on the water, flying in the air, knowing what is inside the heart and seeing the distant objects, etc.

Here also keep in mind that the real saintly miracle is to act upon Shari’ah and Sunnah steadfastly. Sayyiduna Shaykh Abul Qaasim Gurgaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Walking on the water, flying in the air and giving news of Ghayb are not saintly miracles, but rather saintly miracle is that the person obeys and follows Shar’iah strictly in a way that he does not commit any Haraam act. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat, vol. 2, pp. 749)

Sayyiduna Abu Yazeed Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If you see someone being bestowed with saintly miracles to such an extent that he flies in the air, do not be deceived by him until you see that whether he acts upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and whether he abstains from the acts from which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden, till what extent he takes care of Shar’i boundaries and follows them. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 301, Raqm 1860)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is the most beloved pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who is the chief of all pious saints. His personality is highly respected and revered by everyone. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is not only the pious saint who has performed abundant miracles, but he is also the one who Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed with more saintly miracles and gifts than any other pious saint, even his blessed saintly miracles exceed a limit of counting.

String of beads

Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: From saintly miracles perspective, no one amongst Mashaaikh and pious saints is equal to him, even some Islamic scholars have said that his (Ghaus-e-A’zam) saintly miracles are like a string of beads as when it breaks, one bead after another keeps falling over and his saintly miracles exceed a limit of counting. (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 4, pp. 610)

Let’s listen to two saintly miracles of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in order to increase his greatness and glory in the hearts.

1. Blessing in wheat

Shaykh Abul ‘Abbas Ahmad Qarashi Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once Baghdad was struck with famine. I complained about starvation and my large family in the blessed court of Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took out a Waybah [ وَیبَه ] (a specific measuring bowl) and told me to put it into one of the sack and close it. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further told me to open the sack from one end and to take out the wheat from one side and continue to eat the wheat after grinding. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه strictly forbade me to open the sack’s mouth.

Shaykh Abul Abbas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: We used the wheat for five years by taking out the wheat from the sack. But then one day my wife opened its mouth and it finished in seven days. When I related the whole incident to Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, he said: If you had left it [tied] and had not opened its mouth, you would be eating from it until your death, that is, the wheat would not have finished. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 130)

وہ اور ہیں جن کو کہئے محتاج ہم تو ہیں گدائے غوثِ اعظم

جو دم میں غنی کرے گدا کو وہ کیا ہے عطائے غوثِ اعظم

2. Staff became bright

‘Abdul Malik Zayyaal رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: One night I was standing in the Madrasah of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He came out with a staff in his blessed hand. A thought crossed my mind, would that Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could show a saintly miracle through this staff! As the thought entered my mind he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fixed the staff into the ground. Suddenly the staff became bright and remained bright like a lamp for a long time. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took the staff out of the ground and it turned to its previous state. Afterwards, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘O Zayyaal! This is what you wanted?’ (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 150)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a pious saint who possessed great saintly miracles! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with the power of giving the news of Ghayb. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would

become aware of the thoughts crossing one’s mind, even he has stated in his famous ‘Qasidah Ghausiyyah’:

نَظَرۡتُ إلٰي بِلَادِ اللّٰهِ جَمۡعًا

كَخَرۡدَلَ ةٍ عَلٰي حُكۡمِ التِّصَالِيۡ

Translation: I have seen all the cities of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ like few mustard seeds joined together.

Famous Muhaddis Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Haq Muhaddis Dihlvi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states that Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: If Shari’ah had not restricted me, I would have told you what you have eaten and kept at home; I know your inner and outer self because you are like a transparent glass in my eyes. (Akhbar-ul-Akhyar, pp. 15)

سُلطانِ وِلایت غَوثِ پاک وَلیوں پہ حکومت غَوثِ پاک

شَہبازِ خِطابَت غَوثِ پاک فانُوسِ ہِدایَت غَوثِ پاک

مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک

Madani In’amaat, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become obvious that nothing is hidden from Allah-loving people and it has also been understood that despite being the chief of pious saints, Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so careful that he would follow Shar’iah at all cost. Therefore, we should also carry out every act as per Shar’iah. In order to develop the passion for obeying the commandments of Shar’iah, we should become occupied with 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. One of the 12 Madani activities is to fill in the booklet of Madani In’amaat by performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily as per Madani In’amaat and then submit it to the responsible Islamic brother of your area on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Madani In’amaat is the best method of getting rid of sins and developing the passion for practice. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is very pleased with the ones who act upon Madani In’amaat and makes many Du’as for them. By the virtue of acting upon Madani In’amaat, one gets the great wealth of fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This great gift of Madani In’aam reminds us of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Madani In’amaat is the best source of making self-accountability by following in the footsteps of pious predecessors. Our pious predecessors’ manner of making self-accountability of their deeds was also very beautiful. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable about it.

Fikr-e-Madinah throughout the day

It has been narrated: Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to ponder the whole day (over the Hereafter) sitting in a corner of his home.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 162)

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of performing Fikr-e-Madinah and rejoice.

Madani parable

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi has stated: The Masjid Imam of my area, who is associated with Dawat-e-Islami, made individual efforts upon my elder brother and gave him a Madani In’amaat booklet as a gift. My brother brought the booklet home and was amazed to read it since the brief booklet contained an excellent formula for a Muslim to live his Islamic life. From the blessings of receiving a Madani In’amaat booklet, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he got inspiration to perform Salah and went to the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at (congregation). Now, he regularly offers all five Salahs, has grown a beard and also fills in the Madani In’amaat booklet.

میں بن جاؤں سَراپا ”مَدَنی انعامات“ کی تصویر

بنوں گا نیک یا الله اگر رَحمت تِری ہوگی

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to act upon Madani In’amaat regularly and submit it to the responsible Islamic brother of our area after filling it by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is very Merciful. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ gives his chosen bondmen too many powers through which they govern the angels, the sky and the earth, the land and the sea, humans and jinns and beasts and birds, or rather they have control over everything of this world. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the same were the glorious and miraculous powers of our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The way he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had control over jinns and humans, similarly, birds would also obey his orders. Let’s listen to a saintly miracle of Ghaus-e-A’zam about it and rejoice:

When Abul Hasan Azjee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell ill, Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to inquire after him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw a female pigeon and a dove sitting at his home. Abul Hasan Azjee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: This female pigeon has not laid any egg for six months and this dove has not talked for nine months. Standing by the female pigeon Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Benefit your master and said to the dove: Proclaim the glorification of your Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Since that day, the dove has started talking in a way that the inhabitants of Baghdad would feel amused when it talked and the pigeon continued to lay eggs throughout its life. (Nuzhat-ul-Khaatir, pp. 59)

کیوں نہ جاؤں میں غوث پر واری، آفتیں دُور ہوگئیں ساری

جب تڑپ کر انہیں پکارا ہے، واہ کیا بات غوثِ اعظم کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis-e-Tarajim (Translation Majlis)

Dawat-e-Islami, a global and non-political movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah is not only making efforts to reform Muslims, but it is also propagating the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the call towards the righteousness all over the world through serving Islam in more than 100 departments. ‘Majlis-e-Tarajim’ (Translation Department) is one of them which has carried out in a very short span of time, the service of translating books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Maktaba-tul-Madinah into 37 different languages including Arabic, English, Persian, French, German, Chinese, Italian, Russian, Hindi, Gujarati, Sindhi, Bengali etc., so that millions of other people in the world who speak other languages except Urdu can also take advantage of these books along with Urdu readers and develop the mind-set: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

All the books and booklets of Majlis-e-Tarajim are available at the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . In addition, there is also a mobile application available at Play store and Apple store under the title ‘Islamic eBooks Library’, with the help of which not only can you study books and booklets yourself, but you can also earn permanent source of reward by sharing its link with your friends and family.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with the special grace and favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the way he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was performing his saintly miracles, giving blessings, exercising his powers and doing favours and helping people in his apparent life, similarly, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is continuing the same as usual even after his apparent demise.

Why should it not happen as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a beloved saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, rather the chief of pious saints. Pious saints are not only alive in their shrines by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but they also see, recognize, guide and help the visitors and help them in many ways.

Sayyiduna Imam Isma’eel Haqqi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The bodies of the Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, pious saints and martyrs (رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی) do not change in their graves, and nor do they decompose because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protects their bodies against the damage that occurs due to the decomposition of flesh. (Tafseer Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 3, pp. 439)

The blessed Mashaaikh رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: There are four pious saints who help people even after their apparent demise as they used to do when they were alive. After their demise, they help people many times more than when they were alive: Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi, Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani and two others رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . (Lam’aat-ut-Tanqeeh, vol. 4, pp. 215)

Allamah ‘Ali Qaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said:

فَلَا فَرْقَ لَهُم فِي الْحَالَيْنِ وَلِذَا قِيْلَ اَوْلِيَاءُ اللهِ لَا يَمُوْتُوْنَ وَلٰكِنْ يَّنْتَقِلُوْنَ مِنْ دَارٍ اِلٰى دَارٍ

There is no difference at all in both the states (life and after death) of pious saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . For this reason, it is said that they do not die, but rather move from one home to another. (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 3, pp. 459)

Let’s listen to a great parable, in which Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه blessed one of his devotees when he came to his blessed shrine, and refresh the faith.

Came out of blessed shrine

The trader of Egypt was a devotee of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and intended to become his Mureed (disciple), but due to worldly affairs he had been deprived of visiting him for forty years. Finally, in order to attain blessings and see Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه he set out on the journey to Baghdad. As the trader reached Baghdad, he was informed

that Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had passed away. He became very disappointed as his wish did not come true and intended to kill himself, but at the same time, a thought came to his mind that he should first of all visit his luminous shrine in order to attain its blessing. So he went to see the luminous shrine with great reverence and respect. Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of his blessed grave and paid attention to him after holding his hand and made him his Mureed (disciple). (Tafreeh-ul-Khaatir, pp. 82)

مل گیا مجھ کو غوث کا دامن، فضلِ ربِّ کریم سے روشن

مِری تقدیر کا ستارہ ہے، واہ کیا بات غوثِ اعظم کی

سُلطانِ وِلایت غَوثِ پاک وَلیوں پہ حکومت غَوثِ پاک

شَہبازِ خِطابَت غَوثِ پاک فانُوسِ ہِدایَت غَوثِ پاک

مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مَرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک مرحبا یا غَوثِ پاک

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s speech, we have been privileged to listen to different interesting events about the saintly miracles of Sayyiduna Ghaus-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Every Du’a of our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to be answered. (Mustajaab-ud-Da’waat)

Our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه possessed saintly miracles and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a pious saint by birth.

Our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would keenly act upon the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would visit to inquire after the sick.

Our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would fulfil the needs of his Mureed (disciples).

By virtue of the Du’as of our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه the possession and wealth of people would increase.

Our Ghaus-e-Pak رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was the one who would help the poor, Faqeers, Masakeen (destitute) and the needy.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to become the true slave of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about Salam

1. When meeting a Muslim, it is Sunnah t o say Salam to him .

There is reward for saying Salam to Muslims no matter how many times you meet in a day, even if one leaves and enters a room frequently.

It is a Sunnah to be the first in saying Salam.

The one who says Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. The one who says Salam first is free from pride, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who says Salam first, is free from pride.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 433)

2. Ninety mercies descend upon the one who says Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

3. One receives 10 virtues for saying ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾, 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ ﴾ is added and 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ is also added.

4. Similarly, one can receive 30 virtues by replying with ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ .

5. It is Wajib [obligatory] to immediately reply to a Salam in a voice audible to the one who said the Salam.

6. Learn the correct pronunciation of Salam and the reply of Salam . First, I will say it; then you repeat after me ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾ كُمْ ﴾ – عَلَے – مُ – سَلَا – ﴿ اَسْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَام ﴾ سَلَام ﴾ – مُسْ – لَیْكُ – عَ – ﴿ وَ .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

