Muballigha must read the bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Heavenly observations of Mi’ra a j

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times, Allah Almighty will fulfil 100 of his needs, 30 of the world and 70 of the Hereafter’. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Azkar, Juz: 1, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2229)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadis 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Allah Almighty has bestowed countless miracles on His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . One of the great miracles is the miracle of ‘Mi’raaj’. In the night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was taken on the tour of Paradise where he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed many blessed gifts of Allah Almighty. Today, I will be privileged to mention those Heavenly observations to you.

Entry into Paradise

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: I entered Paradise (in the night of Mi’raaj); I saw that its small stones were made of pearls and its soil was of Musk [1] [a kind of fragrance]; I then saw four streams—the first stream was of water that does not change; the second was of milk whose taste does not change; the third one was the stream of wine that is only tasty [having no intoxication] for those who drink it and the fourth one was the stream of neat, clean and pure honey. The pomegranates of Paradise were (big) like buckets and the birds were like camels in size. In it, Allah Almighty has prepared such marvellous and wonderful gifts for His righteous bondmen which have neither been seen nor heard by anyone, and nor has anyone had any idea of them. (Dalail-un-Nubuwwah lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 2, pp. 394)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Arrival at Stream of Kausar

During the visit of Paradise, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went to a stream whose banks had tents made of hollow pearls and its soil was of pure Musk. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Jibraeel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام), O

Jibraeel! ‘What is this?’ He humbly replied, ‘This is Kausar which your Merciful Rab Almighty has bestowed upon you.’ (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 1612, Hadees 6581)

آسمانوں پر گئے اور خُلد کی بھی سَیر کی

شاہ کا یہ مرتبہ، اہلًا وّ سہلًا مرحبا

خُلْدیعنی جنت Khuld means Paradise

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Three streams:

In the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw a person with his hair combed, sitting on a chair near the door of Paradise. Sitting by him were some people with white faces and some with dark faces. Then those with dark complexion came to a stream and performed Ghusl in it and their complexion turned fair. Afterwards, they came to another stream and performed Ghusal in it; their complexions turned further fair. After this, they performed Ghusal in the third stream, so their complexions turned absolutely milky like their other companions. So they then sat next to their companions who had milky complexion.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘O Jibraeel! Who are these people whose faces are white and who are those people whose complexions had some defect, but when they came out of the stream after performing Ghusal, their complexion turned fair/milky?’ He humbly replied, ‘Ya Rasool Allah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! This man (sitting on the chair near the door of Paradise) is your father Sayyiduna Ibrahim عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام ; he is the first person on the earth who combed his hair. These people of white faces are the people who did not add anything evil to their Imaan [faith], and those who had some defect in their complexion are the people, who performed some bad deeds along with good deeds; they then repented in the merciful Court of Allah, so Allah Almighty accepted their repentance. The first stream (one of the streams in which they

performed Ghusal) is a mercy of Allah Almighty and the second one is a blessing of Allah Almighty and the third one is the one in which Allah Almighty has made them drink Sharab e ‘Tahoor’ [pure wine].’ (Dalail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 401)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed! By virtue of diving into the stream of Divine mercy the people whose complexion had turned dark got rid of their dark complexion. They then dived into the stream of Divine blessing, their complexion improved further and when they drank from the stream of wine Tahoor, their faces turned absolutely white.

Remember, they got rid of the darkness of sins because they repented in the blessed court of Allah Almighty (in the world), so Allah Almighty accepted their repentance and brightened their faces. Surely, true repentance not only removes the darkness of sins, but it also blesses a bondman with success. Allah Almighty has said:

وَ تُوْبُوْۤا اِلَى اللّٰهِ جَمِیْعًا اَیُّهَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ لَعَلَّكُمْ تُفْلِحُوْنَ(۳۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Imaan: And O Muslims, all of you, turn in repentance together towards Allah, in the hope of attaining success.

(Part 18, Surah An-Noor, verse 31)

Dear Islamic sisters! mercy of Allah Almighty is so great that it is always ready to take a sinner under its shade; no matter how many sins a person has committed, she should not delay making repentance and should not be disappointed with the mercy of Allah Almighty at all. The mercy and kindness of Allah Almighty has no limit. By virtue of His mercy, Allah Almighty forgives the sins of His bondmen even if they are equal to the earth and the sky

provided that the repentance of a bondman is true. Allah Almighty is greatly pleased with the ones who make repentance.

Allah Almighty’s Pleasure at the repentance of bondman:

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Undoubtedly, Allah Almighty is more pleased with the repentance of His true believer than the person who stays at a lethal rocky ground with a riding animal carrying his provisions, then sleeps placing his head; when he wakes up, [he finds that] his riding animal had gone; he searches it until he works up a great thirst, so he says that he should return to the place where he was first and sleeps there to the death; he then sleeps placing his head on his wrist to die; when he wakes up, he finds his riding animal with him along with his provisions. So Allah Almighty is more delighted at the repentance of His bondman than that person who feels delighted at the return of his riding animal.

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ut-Taubah, pp. 1468, Hadees 2744)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Voice of Paradise:

In the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed through a valley in which cool, pleasant and fragrant breeze was blowing. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard a voice there and asked Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: O Jibraeel! What is this cool, pleasant and fragrant air? And how is this voice? Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly replied: It is the voice of Paradise, saying, ‘O Allah Almighty! Send me the people who are going to live in me and those about whom You have promised me and no doubt, I have pleasant fragrances, silk, fine silk cloth, nice clothes of different kinds and unique things, pearls, corals, gold, silver, lotas (ewers) with lids and handles, fruits, honey, [pure] wine and milk in abundance. So send them to me about whom You have promised me.’

Allah Almighty said to it: Every Muslim Momin man and woman and the one who believes in Me and My Rasools, performs virtuous deeds and does not associate any partners with Me and, nor considers anyone equal to Me are for you. And I will protect the one who fears Me; I will bestow upon the one who begs from Me; I will reward the one who lends me (gives Sadaqat); I will become sufficient for the one who has absolute trust in Me and I am Allah (Almighty), there is no one worthy of worship except Me; I do not break a promise; undoubtedly, those who believed in have succeeded. (Afterwards, in the Holy Quran [in Surah Mominoon], Allah Almighty has mentioned the attributes of above-mentioned successful believers.) Then the Paradise said, ‘I am pleased.’ (Dalail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 399)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have your heard! Paradise has mentioned many unique and excellent blessings it has and also made a request in the blessed court of Allah to send the fortunate people to it who are going to enjoy these blessings. Upon this Allah Almighty told the Paradise about its dwellers [that is, men and women who have believed in] and then also mentioned the attributes of successful believers. Let’s listen to the attributes:

Inheritors of Paradise

In Ayah 1 to 11 of Surah Al-Mu`minoon, part 18, Allah Almighty has stated about the fortunate inheritors of Paradise:

قَدْ اَفْلَحَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَۙ(۱) الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ فِیْ صَلَاتِهِمْ خٰشِعُوْنَۙ(۲) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ عَنِ اللَّغْوِ مُعْرِضُوْنَۙ(۳) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِلزَّكٰوةِ فٰعِلُوْنَۙ(۴) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِفُرُوْجِهِمْ حٰفِظُوْنَۙ(۵) اِلَّا عَلٰۤى اَزْوَاجِهِمْ اَوْ مَا مَلَكَتْ اَیْمَانُهُمْ فَاِنَّهُمْ غَیْرُ مَلُوْمِیْنَۚ(۶) فَمَنِ ابْتَغٰى وَرَآءَ ذٰلِكَ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْعٰدُوْنَۚ(۷) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِاَمٰنٰتِهِمْ وَ عَهْدِهِمْ رٰعُوْنَۙ(۸) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ عَلٰى صَلَوٰتِهِمْ یُحَافِظُوْنَۘ(۹) اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْوٰرِثُوْنَۙ(۱۰) الَّذِیْنَ یَرِثُوْنَ الْفِرْدَوْسَؕ-هُمْ فِیْهَا خٰلِدُوْنَ(۱۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Imaan: Succ essful indeed are the believers. Those who humbly cry in their prayers. And who do not incline towards indecent

matters. And who pay the (obligatory) charity. And who guard their private organs. Except from their wives or the legal bondwomen that they possess, for then there is no blame upon them. So whoever desires more than these two – they are crossing the limits. And those who keep proper regard for their trusts and their pledges. And who guard their prayers. They are the inheritors. Those who will get the inheritance of Paradise; they will abide in it forever. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, Ayah 1-11)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Writing on the door of Paradise:

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘In the blessed night of my Mi’raaj, I saw the writing on the door of Heaven, ‘The reward for Sadaqah is ten times, whereas the reward for giving a loan is eighteen times.’ I asked Jibraeel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام), why has the status of a loan increased more than Sadaqah?’ He replied, ‘A beggar has wealth even then he asks for it, whereas a borrower borrows only due to his need.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, Kitab-u t -Sadaqaat, pp. 389, Hadees 2431)

Dear Islamic sisters! From this blessed Hadees we have also learnt that if a Muslimah needs a loan, we should help her by lending her money with good intentions according to our financial ability for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and earn abundant rewards.

Towering palaces:

It is narrated that in the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw some towering palaces in Paradise and upon inquiring of them, Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly said: These are for those who suppress their anger and forgive and tolerate people and Allah Almighty likes those who do a favour. (Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 2, pp. 255, Hadees 3188)

Dear Islamic sisters! The feeling of anger is something that is uncontrollable; it is the frenzy of the Nafs that provokes a person to take revenge and it

arouses the fire of revenge in the heart. Many virtues have been stated in blessed Ahadees for the one who controls herself in such a state and forgives and tolerates [people]. One of the virtues has just been mentioned. Let’s listen to two more blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 If a person suppresses his anger, though he is capable of enforcing it, Allah Almighty, will call him on the Day of Judgement before all creatures, and give him authority to choose any of the houris [nymphs of Paradise] he wishes. (Sunan Abi Dawood, Kitab-ul-Adab, pp. 752, Hadis 4777)

2 The best people amongst my Ummah are those who immediately control their anger when they get angry. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 4, pp. 224, Hadees 5793)

حُسنِ اَخلاق اور نَرمی دو دُور ہو خُوئے اِشتعال آقا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Tents similar to domes made of pearls

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw tents like domes made of pearls with soil of musk in Paradise. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: ‘ لِمَنۡ هٰذَا يَا جِبۡرِيۡل ’ i.e., O Jibraeel! Who are these for ? He humbly said, ‘O Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! These are for the Aimmah [those who lead Salah] and Mu`azzins [those who call out Azan] of your Ummah.’

(Al-Musnad lish-Shashi, vol. 3, pp. 321, Hadees 1428)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great is the excellence of doing Imamat (leading Salah) and calling out Azan for the pleasure of Allah Almighty! Allah Almighty has prepared tents made of pearls for them in Paradise. May Allah Almighty also enable us to do so! Let’s listen to two more blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 The one who calls out Azan for the sake of reward is like the martyr who is drenched in blood and when he dies; his body will stay safe from insects in the grave. (Attarghib Wattarhib, Kitab-us-Salat, pp. 95, Hadis 24)

2 The one who calls out Azan for the Salah of all five times on the basis of Imaan [faith] with the intention of reward, his previous sins will be forgiven and whoever leads the Salah of five times of his companions for reward on the basis of Imaan [faith], his previous sins will be forgiven.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 289, Hadis 20902)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Man shrouded in Noor:

In the glorious night of Mi’raaj journey, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by a person who was shrouded in the Noor of the ‘Arsh. The Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘Who is he? Is he an angel?’ The reply was, ‘No’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then asked, ‘Is he a Nabi?’ The reply was, ‘No’. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked, ‘Who is he then?’ It was replied, ‘It is the person who used to do Zikr of Allah Almighty all the time in the world, who used to feel pleasure in Masajid and who never became the cause of his parents being spoken ill or being disgraced.’ (Mawsu’ah Imam Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 2, pp. 415, Hadis 95)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ from this narration it has been understood that these three deeds—abundant Zikr of Allah Almighty, love for Masajid and avoiding the act that causes a person to become a disgrace for her parents are highly loved in the blessed court of Allah Almighty . This narration also contains the persuasion that a person should not commit any such crimes like swearing, quarrel, intoxication, gambling etc., which become the cause of disgrace and taunt for her parents and she may herself have to feel ashamed on the Judgement Day.

Parents should also give good upbringing to their children from the very beginning; they should persuade their children to carry out good deeds and forbid them from performing bad deeds. If parents leave them to do what

they want, they will start following the wrong path, and then there will be nothing left but regret. In fact, parents’ upbringing plays a vital role in making their children good or bad. But, alas, parents are heedless of giving good upbringing to their children and are busy with their sinful life themselves. When the aim of parents’ life is to gain wealth, leisure, pass time and live luxurious life, how can they give good upbringing to their children and when they start obtaining the results of their negligence in giving good upbringing to their children, they complain to everybody about their children getting spoiled.

May Allah Almighty enable us to reform ourselves and give good Madani upbringing to our children! In order to know ‘How to bring up children in the best way?’ study the book ‘Tarbiyyat-e-Aulaad’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will get abundant Madani pearls of giving upbringing to children.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Eminence of Siddiq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ عَنۡهُ

In the blessed night of Mi’raaj, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in Jannah and saw a palace decorated with pure silk curtains. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام, ‘O Jibraeel! Who is this for ? ’ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly replied, ‘It is for Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddiq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .’ (Ar-Riyaz-un-Nadarah, vol. 2, pp. 110)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great is the glory of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddiq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! Remember! Sayyiduna Siddiq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the most superior of all humans after the Ambiya and Rusul عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام ; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is a man of countless virtues. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the first man to believe in the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accompanied the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم during the journey and stay as well. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was privileged to migrate in the companionship of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ

وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and obtained the status of ‘ فَنَا فِي الرَّسُوۡل ’ because he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sacrificed all his possessions, life, children and homeland etc. In short, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ sacrificed everything for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . That is why he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has attained very elevated ranks in the blessed court of Allah Almighty, and become deserving of abundant Divine rewards and favours.

بیان ہو کس زبان سے مرتبہ صِدّیقِ اکبر کا ہے یارِ غار، محبوبِ خُدا صِدّیقِ اکبر کا

رُسُل اور انبیاء کے بعد جو افضل ہو عالَم سے یہ عالَم میں ہے کس کا مرتبہ، صِدّیقِ اکبر کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Little sound of the footsteps of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللّٰهُ عَنۡهُ

During the visit of Paradise, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the little sound of someone’s footsteps about which he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was told that he was Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ .

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 418, Hadees 6037)

May I be sacrificed upon the magnificence of Mu’azzin-e-Rasool, Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was hearing the little sound of his footsteps in Paradise! For which deed has he attained this status? Let’s listen to it.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ at Fajr time: O Bilal! Tell me about the act you have performed in Islam by virtue of which you hope to get the most reward because I heard the little sound of your footsteps ahead of me in Paradise.

Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly replied: I think I have not performed any act in Islam for which I hope to get the most reward, but whenever [during

the day or night] I perform Wudu or Ghusl, I offer Salah as much as Allah Almighty has decided for me. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 957, Hadees 2458)

Commentary on Hadees

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, ‘Allamah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: Sayyiduna Bilaal’s رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ entry into Paradise ahead of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is like the act of the servants who walk ahead of the kings and clear the ways for them. It means, ‘O Bilal! What deed did you perform by virtue of which you were privileged to serve me?’ Remember! In the blessed night of Mi’raaj, neither did Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accompany the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Paradise nor did he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ have Mi’raaj, but rather the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw the event during that night which will happen after the Judgement Day—the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will enter Paradise before all Creation in the way that Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ will be ahead of him as a servant.

From this event few rulings have been understood: Firstly, Allah Almighty made the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم aware of the end of people as to who are the dweller of Paradise and the dweller of Hell and what their levels are . All this information is from ‘Uloom-e-Khamsah (certain secret branches of knowledge). Secondly, the blessed ears and blessed eyes of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم listen and see the events which will happen after hundreds of thousands of years. This event will take place many hundreds of thousands of years after the date, but may I be sacrificed on the blessed ears that they are listening to it today. Thirdly, the way a person lives his life in this world, in the same way he will be in the Hereafter. Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spent his life serving the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ will be raised as a servant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the Hereafter.

Explaining the saying of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, ‘Whatever moment during the day or night I performed Wudu or Ghusl, I offered as much Salah as was in my destiny’ Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: i.e. Whenever I made Wudu or

Ghusl during the day or night, I performed two Nafl Rak’aat of ‘Tahiyya-tul-Wudu’. It implies here offering it in non-Makrooh times, so that this blessed Hadees should not go against those blessed Ahadees in which Nafl Salah are not allowed to offer in Makrooh times.

Remember, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ about this so that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ could give this answer and the Ummah may act upon it. Otherwise, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of everyone’s every apparent and concealed deed. Moreover, this exalted status is only for Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ for performing these Nawafil, otherwise, if thousands of people offer these Nawafil regularly, they will not be privileged to carry out this service. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 300)

Dear Islamic sisters! From this narration, not only have we learnt the status and rank of Sayyiduna Bilal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, but we have also learnt the significance and excellence of ‘Tahiyya-tul-Wudu’. May Allah Almighty enable us to offer ‘Tahiyya-tul-Wudu’ with sincere intention!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madani Muzakarah:

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is propagating Sunnah approximately in 104 departments serving Islam all over the world. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, acting upon the saying ‘Knowledge is the collection of countless treasures which can be obtained by questions.’ Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has started a program of question and answer which is called ‘Madani Muzakarah’ in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. In ‘Madani Muzakarahs’, Devotees of Rasool ask different questions about beliefs and deeds, virtues and Manaqib, Shari’at and Tareeqat, history and life history, science and medicine, morality and Islamic information,

economic, social and organizational matters and many other topics and Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ answers them. These answers are enriched with full of wisdom and devotion to Rasool.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of ‘Majlis Madani Muzakarah’, efforts are being made to present the fragrant Madani pearls of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, which are interesting and full of knowledge and wisdom, to the Muslims of the entire world in the form of booklets, VCDs and memory cards. May Allah Almighty bestow more blessings upon Majlis Madani Muzakarah!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Madani Muzakarah—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to attain the passion for acting upon Madani In’amaat and increase steadfastness in them, remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘to attend [weekly] Madani Muzakarah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ holds Madani Muzakarah every Saturday after ‘Isha Salah in the global Madani Markaz of Dawat-e-Islami, Faizan-e-Madinah, Babul Madinah, Karachi. This Madani Muzakarah is telecast live on Madani Channel.

Few advantages of watching Madani Muzakarah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of watching and listening to Madani Muzakarah one is privileged to get the mind-set of being careful about Shar’i matters. By virtue of Madani Muzakarah one gets the passion for practice. By virtue of Madani Muzakarah many Islamic sisters have repented of their sinful lives. Let’s make intention immediately that we will also surely attend Madani Muzakarah every Saturday from beginning to end and will also keep on inviting other

Islamic sisters to attend it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will get its many more blessings. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of watching Madani Muzakarah.

Woke up to fact

There was an Islamic sister in Punjab (Pakistan) who, before being associated with the fragrant Madani environment, would watch films and dramas on TV. Whenever she wanted to go to market, she would go without any purdah; she would not even offer Salah. In this way, she was heedlessly spending her days committing sins. Once, someone gave her cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches released by Maktaba tul Madinah. When she listened to them, she woke up to the fact. By virtue of the blessing of the speeches she was blessed with Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She also started offering Salah regularly and repented all of her sins especially non-observance of purdah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Burqa’ became the part of her dress. The tongue she would use to hum songs now اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is used to recite the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 32)

Note: Dear Islamic sisters! If you have also observed any blessing or Madani Parable due to the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, then please submit the same to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Paradise.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of sneezing

Sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the sneeze (of a person) and does not like the yawn (of a person). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2 When one sneezes and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, the angels say ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ and if she says, ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ the angels say, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you’. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3 Lower your head, cover your face as you sneeze, and sneeze in a low sound as it is foolish to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

4 One should say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ after sneezing. It is better to say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ ’ or ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ (it is stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan on page 3 with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Sunnat-e-Muakkadah to recite the Hamd of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after sneezing).

Announcement

The remaining important Madani pearls regarding sneezing will be explained in the Tarbiyyati Halqah so please ensure to attend it for learn them.

1 It is Wajib for the one who hears the sneezer, to say ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’ (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you) immediately in such an audible voice that the one who sneezed can hear it. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 119)

2 Upon hearing ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’, the person who sneezed should say ‘ يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَيُصۡلِحُ بَالَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition). (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

3 Whoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ after sneezing and passes her tongue over all her teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ she will be safe from dental diseases.

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

4 Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘Whosoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ upon sneezing, she will never suffer from pain in the molars or from an earache.’ (Mirqat-ul-Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499, Taht-al-Hadees 4739)

