اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Would that we could get rid of useless conversation!

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘When Thursday arrives, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends angels who have papers of silver and pens of gold. They write the names of those who recite Salat on me in abundance on the day of Thursday and the night of Friday (i.e. the night between Thursday and Friday).’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 250, Hadees 2174)

بچیں بے کار باتوں سے پڑھیں اے کاش! کثرت سے

ترے محبوب پر ہر دَم دُرودِ پاک ہم مَولٰی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

… ٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

… ٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2.Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3.I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4.If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5.When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6.After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely tongue is one of the greatest blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The one who uses this blessing in a good manner gets its benefit, not only in this world, but he will also see its blessings in the Hereafter. However, the one who gives his tongue full freedom, suffers disgrace in the world and the Hereafter both. Today, we will be privileged to listen to different Madani pearls about the protection of the tongue. First of all, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable.

Sayyiduna Umar Bin Saleem رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once Sayyiduna Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم went to his followers in the state that he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم was wearing a woollen Jubba (cloak), barefooted and had no cloth etc., on his head, and tears were rolling down from his eyes. Due to being hungry his complexion changed and due to intensity of thirst his lips became absolutely dry. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم greeted his followers, and after giving some pieces of advice, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم gave them the Madani pearls of protecting the tongue and said: ‘O people! Avoid speaking uselessly; never speak any word other than Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from your tongue; otherwise your heart will become hard. No doubt, hearts are soft, but useless talk makes them hard. And the person whose heart becomes hard, gets deprived of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 185)

بولوں نہ فضول اور رہیں نیچی نگاہیں آنکھوں کا زباں کا دے خدا قفلِ مدینہ

دوزخ کی کہاں تاب ہے کمزور بدن میں ہر عضو کا عطارؔ لگا قفلِ مدینہ

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم ordered his followers to do Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and avoid useless conversation through the pieces of advice he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم gave to his followers in the above-mentioned parable. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has also said that useless talk causes the heart to become hard. Remember! Where by virtue of this tongue we may deserve the eternal blessings of Paradise by doing Zikr and reciting Salat, Na’at and delivering speeches and presenting the call towards righteousness, we may also suffer

the torment of fire by misusing it, like committing the sins of backbiting, tale-telling, abusing someone, etc. Alas! At present, the concept of protecting the tongue is almost vanishing. We do not realize how this small piece of meat, which is guarded by two lips and two jaws, can put our whole body into worldly and Hereafter troubles. But being careless of the consequences and without thinking of anything, we keep speaking and it has become our habit. Remember! Every word we utter [from our tongue] is written by the infallible angels of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In Ayah 18 of Surah Qaaf part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

مَا یَلْفِظُ مِنْ قَوْلٍ اِلَّا لَدَیْهِ رَقِیْبٌ عَتِیْدٌ(۱۸)

He does not utter a single word, without a ready recorder seated next to him.

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah. 26, Surah Qaaf, Ayah 18)

There are some keepers on you:

Sayyiduna Atta Bin Abi Rabbah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: People of the past would dislike useless talks and for them, apart from the Holy Quran and Sunnah, presenting the call towards righteousness, forbidding from evils and the conversation for necessities of worldly life, every conversation was useless. Don’t you know that indeed, there are some honourable keepers, who write [your every act]; one is sitting on the right and the other one on the left. One keeper is always ready whenever you utter something [from your tongue]. Do any of you not feel ashamed of it that when his Book of deeds is opened, which he had filled in the beginning of his day, containing most of the talks which have nothing to do with the Deen (religion) and the world? (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 348)

میں بے کار باتوں سے بچ کے ہمیشہ

کروں تیری حمد و ثنا یاالٰہی

(وسائلِ بخشش مرمم ، ۱۰۵)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Every word we utter is written by angels. Just ponder, we speak uselessly so much throughout the day, commit tale-telling and backbiting against so many people, use different kinds of foul language and make so many people silent by our glib talk. No one can win from us in useless arguments. Have we ever thought that by these useless conversations and arguments we can make people silent in the world, establish our superiority to them, but on the Judgement Day, in the plain of Mahshar, what will happen to us when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and all the blessed Ambiyah عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام will appear with their Ummahs, pious saints and our relatives and friends and devotees will also be there before whom we were respected much in the world, the sun will be blazing fire, the earth will be of burning copper and everyone will have to read out their Book of deeds in front of everyone? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ نُخْرِ جُ لَهٗ یَوْمَ الْقِیٰمَةِ كِتٰبًا یَّلْقٰىهُ مَنْشُوْرًا(۱۳) اِقْرَاْ كِتٰبَكَؕ-كَفٰى بِنَفْسِكَ الْیَوْمَ عَلَیْكَ حَسِیْبًاؕ(۱۴)

And We shall bring forth a register for him on the Day of Resurrection, which he will find open. It will be said, “Read your ledger; this day you are sufficient to take your own account.

[Translation of Quran (Kanz-ul-Iman)](Parah. 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 13-14)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! How shall we read out our Book of deeds in front of everyone on the Judgment Day? How shall we read out the book of deeds that will be full of useless conversation, polluted with abuses and indecent talks, which will contain utterances about breaking the hearts of Muslims? How shall we read out the Book of deeds that will have sins like backbiting and tale-telling against Muslims and untruth? How shall we face people? Therefore we should try to speak as less as possible and should speak only that is necessary, refraining from speaking uselessly or we should speak good, because useless conversation only causes loss. O n the basis of four reasons Hujjat-ul-Islam Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned the harm of useless conversations:

1. 1.Kiraman Katibeen (those respected angels who record deeds) have to write down useless conversation, therefore, a person should feel shy from them and should not give them the trouble of writing down useless conversation.

2. 2.Regarding condemnation of useless conversation, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions the second reason. It is not good that the Book of deeds full of useless conversation be presented to the Merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. 3.The third reason for the condemnation of useless conversation is that a person will be ordered in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in front of all the creation to read out his Book of deeds. Now, the terrifying severities of the Day of Judgement will be in front of him. Human will be without clothes; he will be incredibly thirsty; his back will be bent due to hunger; he will be stopped from going to Paradise, and every type of comfort will be stopped for him. (Just ponder! How worrying it would be to read out a Book of deeds full of useless conversation in such troublesome situation!)

4. 4.The fourth reason for condemnation of useless conversation is that on the Day of Judgement a person will be rebuked for useless conversation and he will be made to feel embarrassed. That person will have no answer to this and he will feel deeply ashamed in the blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 67)

میری زبان تَر رہے ذِکر و دُرود سے

بے جا ہنسوں کبھی نہ کروں گفتگو فضول

(وسائل بخشش مرمم،ص ۲۴۳)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Make your mind to protect your tongue in order to protect yourself from this disgrace on the Judgement Day. Get into the habit of avoiding useless conversation, as speaking less is such a deed for which Sayyiduna Adam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم has been made to promise.

Dear Father! Why don’t you speak?

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: Sayyiduna Adam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم was sent to the earth, he had a great many children. One day, his sons, grandsons and great-grandsons (sons of grandsons) all gathered around him and were talking, whereas he sat silent and did not speak. His children humbly asked: Father! What is the reason you are quiet and we are talking? Abul Bashar Sayyiduna Adam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم replied: ‘O my sons! When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent me to the earth from His closeness (i.e. Paradise), I was made to promise: O Adam! Speak less till you regain My closeness’. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 7, pp. 339, Raqm. 3843)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! To speak less has been given such great importance that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself is commanding His highly respected Nabi عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم to speak less. We have to take great care in protecting our tongue and saving it from speaking uselessly. Alas, Alas! Neither do we have the mind-set of observing Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, nor have the fear of speaking too much and useless conversation. It is the tongue due to whose misuse many people will be made to enter Hell.

Bad conversation will make us fall flat on the face in the Hell!

Sayyiduna Ubadah Bin Samit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ came out of his home and got on his vehicle. Sayyiduna Mu’az Bin Jabbal رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked: Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Which deed is the best? Pointing towards his blessed mouth, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: To stay quiet except for speaking about righteousness. It was humbly asked: Will Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ account for what we speak [from our tongue]? Hitting his blessed hand on his thigh the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: O Mu’az! Words uttered from the tongues will make people fall flat on the face into the Hell. So the one who believes in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Judgement Day, should speak good or stay quiet from speaking bad. (It was further said:) Speak good, you will get benefit and stay quiet from speaking bad, you will be safe. (Mustadrik Lil-Hakim, vol. 5, pp. 407, Hadees 7844)

فضول اور بیکار باتوں کے بدلے

کروں کاش! ہر دم مدینے کی باتیں

(وسائل ِبخشش مرمم، ۲۷۳)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Definition of useless conversation

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated a very beautiful method of staying safe. Safety lies in it that a person speaks good and avoids speaking bad. Remember! We will be able to succeed in observing Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue and staying safe from the destruction of useless conversation when we know what useless conversation is. Regarding this, Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The definition of useless conversation is that, to have such conversation, from which if you stop, you will not become a sinner, and nor will you suffer any loss at present or in future. For example, you describe your journey in front of people in any gathering and relate the events that occurred to you and the mountains and streams you saw during the journey. Similarly, you mention the food and clothes you like and the wonderful things about the Mashaikh of different cities and their wonderful events. These are the acts due to which you will not become a sinner if you do not mention them, and nor will you suffer any loss, though you try your best not to make any reduction or addition in describing the incident, and nor does it have any backbiting and any condemnation of the creation. Despite all these precautions you will be the one who wastes his time. And how will you protect yourself from the evils of useless conversation? (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 345)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard what useless conversation means! Useless conversation means there will be no harm if it is not done. Thus before we speak we should ponder over its consequence whether or not it will benefit our Hereafter. If it benefits our Hereafter, it should be done, otherwise we should keep quiet. If we bear the concept of being disgraced on

the Judgement Day in mind due to useless and indecent conversation, we will become the one who speak less and refrain from useless conversation, because the one who suffers from any worldly tension he keeps on thinking about it. For example, if someone’s mother or father or relative meets sudden death, or his running business suddenly slows down or he has quarrel at home on trivial issues, he falls silent. Similarly, if we are blessed with pondering over the Hereafter after listening to the torments of Hell, our hearts tremble with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will also fall silent. But we do not keep silent at any moment. We speak all the time without thinking. If we study the blessed life of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it will become obvious that our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to speak very less; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would remain silent quite often. Sayyiduna Jabir Bin Samorah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would mostly remain silent.

(Sharh-us-Sunnah lil-Baghwi, vol. 7, pp. 45, Hadees 3589)

The renowned commentator, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has said regarding the blessed Hadees, ‘Silence here means silence from worldly conversation, otherwise the blessed tongue of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would always remain occupied with the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not talk to people unnecessarily. This refers to permissible conversation whereas he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never had any impermissible conversation throughout his entire blessed life. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is an embodiment of truth, then how any falsehood can ever approach him!’ (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 81)

Dear Islamic brothers! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would not only protect his blessed tongue himself, but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also greatly persuade or rather urge his Ummah to keep silent. Let’s listen to six blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the virtues of silence.

1.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Should I not tell you about the nicest and easiest deed?’ A blessed companion humbly said: ‘May

2.my parents be sacrificed for you! Why not, please state.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘It is good manners and prolonged silence; must adopt both of them because you cannot take any other act like them in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

3.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ Silence is the highest act of worship’. (Ibid, Hadees 3849)

4.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Silence is mandatory for the one who wants to stay safe’. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 271, Hadees 3595)

5.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ The one who remains silent achieves salvation’. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 225, Hadees 2509)

6.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A bondman cannot achieve the reality of faith until he stops his tongue. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 55, Hadees 6523)

7.The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Good news is for the person who saves his excessive conversation and spends his extra wealth. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 5, pp. 72, Hadees 4616)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Silence has a great many virtues. Keeping silent is a very nice deed. Keeping silent is the best act of worship. Keeping silent is a proof of safety. Keeping silent brings about salvation. Keeping silent is a source of attaining the reality of faith. So in order to attain the virtues which have been mentioned in these blessed Ahadees, protect your tongue and also give the mind-set to observe Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue to your family members because sometimes it happens that there is a strong possibility that we may start sinful conversation if we speak unnecessarily. So goodness lies in silence.

یا ربّ نہ ضَرورت کے سِوا کچھ کبھی بولوں! اللہ زَباں کا ہو عطا قفلِ مدینہ

بک بک کی یہ عادت نہ سرِ حشر پھنسا دے اللہ زَباں کا ہو عطا قفلِ مدینہ

ہرلَفظ کا کس طرح حساب آہ! میں دُوں گا اللہ زَباں کا ہو عطا قفلِ مدینہ

(وسائلِ بخشش مرمم ، ۹۳)

Madani Qafilah – One of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to attain the passion for protecting the tongue and to protect yourself from useless talks and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is ‘Madani Qafilah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Madani Qaflia is a source of gaining Islamic knowledge. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilah one offers Fard and Wajib acts regularly. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilah one gets the opportunity to act upon Sunnahs. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Qafilah one is privileged to offer Ishraaq, Chasht, Awabeen and Tahajjud. Madani Qafilahs usually stay in Masaajid and for the fortunate people, who stay in Masaajid with the intention of worship, three things have been stated in a blessed Hadees: (1) Benefit is obtained from him (2) or his conversation is full of wisdom (3) or he looks forward to mercy. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 169, Hadees 503)

Therefore, let’s make intention together that we will travel with 3-day Madani Qafilah every month for sure, in order to serve Sunnahs and propagate the call towards righteousness to Muslims اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Let’s listen to a Madani parable of a Madani Qafilah instantly for increasing further passion and rejoice:

Drinker got reformed

Here is a summary of a delightful parable related by an Islamic brother from Maharashtra, India. He has stated: Before I associated myself with Dawat-e-Islami, I was a great sinner. I would work the whole day but would waste my hard-earned money in drinking. I would enjoy different evils, call people bad

names, and even upset my parents and neighbours. I was also a compulsive gambler and would not offer any Salah. I was heedlessly wasting the precious moments of my life.

Luckily, I once happened to meet a responsible Islamic brother of Dawat-e-Islami. By making individual efforts upon me, he invited me to travel with a Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. His sweet and sincere words touched my heart, and I accepted his invitation. I immediately travelled with a 3-day Sunnah-Inspiring Madani Qafilah. In the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I listened to speeches from the booklets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Through the blessings of the Madani Qafilah, a compulsive gambler and drinker like me who did not use to offer any Salah, not only started offering Salah but was also inspired to call Sada-e-Madinah (i.e. to awaken Muslims for Salat-ul-Fajr). I also have the privilege of inviting others to travel with Madani Qafilahs.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my individual efforts, 30 Islamic brothers have so far travelled with Madani Qafilahs. I am now a Mu’azzin in a Masjid and am busy making efforts for Madani activities.

مانگو آ کر دُعا، پاؤ گے مدّعا در کرم کے کھلیں، قافلے میں چلو

اچّھی صحبت ملے، خوب برکت ملے چل پڑو چل پڑیں قافلے میں چلو

(وسائلِ بخشش مرمم،ص ۶۷۱)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Disadvantages of useless conversation:

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the condemnation of useless conversation. Remember! Speaking without thinking can result into very dangerous consequences and may lead to perpetual displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Surely observing Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue i.e. protecting yourself from

unnecessary conversation, brings safety because one who speaks more, generally makes more mistakes and even reveals secrets. It is also very difficult for such a person to refrain from sins like backbiting, tale-telling and finding fault with people. One who speaks uselessly out of habit, sometimes even مَعَاذَاللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ utters a word of unbelief. Let’s listen to some disadvantages of useless conversation.

1. Loses his respect:

It is a fact that the risk of embarrassment is very low in silence, whereas one who speaks excessively has to apologize again and again after making a mistake. He regrets in his heart, ‘If I had not spoken anything at that time, it would have been better, because as a result of my speaking, the one who was listening to me spoke rudely to me and insulted me in front of many people, damaging my reputation as well. In this way, one who speaks uselessly loses his respect. Sayyiduna Muhammad bin Nadar Harsi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: ‘Dignity i.e. honour is lost by talking excessively.’ (Al Mawsu’ah Ibn Abid Dunya)

In fact, it is better to regret without speaking rather than speaking, as one who speaks more, suffers more from troubles.

یاالٰہی! فالتو باتوں کی عادت دُور ہو

کاش!لب پرکوئی بھی جاری نہ ہوبے جا کلام

(وسائلِ بخشش مرمم ، ۲۴۶)

(2) Uses foul language:

Another disadvantage of speaking uselessly is that such a person finally uses obscene language and talks about immodesty which are extremely bad deeds. It does not suit any Muslim at all to use such a language. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: A true believer is not the one who finds fault with others, who curses others, uses obscene language and is immodest. (Tirmizi, vol. 3, pp. 393, Hadees 1984) . The people, who destroy their Hereafter by indulging in

immodest conversations using foul language in their friends’ gatherings, should learn an admonitory lesson.

(3) Indulges in backbiting and fighting:

Dear Islamic brothers! Useless conversation and useless questions generally lead to backbiting and a quarrel. If something is asked for a good purpose, there is no harm in it, but questions usually have no correct purpose. In fact, questions are asked for the sake of asking. For example, if we see something with somebody, we start asking questions like this: How much did you buy it? From where have you bought it? How many years warranty does it have?

Remember! Asking about these things unnecessarily is considered to be a useless conversation and one has to account for it in the Hereafter. Sometimes by asking these questions, one starts backbiting and committing tale-telling, fighting and quarrelling. For example if someone rents a house, questions are asked: How many rooms does it have? How much is the rent? How is the landlord? It is a very dangerous question about the landlord. The sinful answer to this question is given usually without any Shar’i permission like this: Our landlord is very strict, merciless and short-tempered. He does not tolerate even the delay of one day regarding the rent.

Remember! All these fall into the category of backbiting and to do backbiting against any Muslim means you are destroying yourself. It is stated on page 26 of ‘Gheebat ki Tabahkariyan’ (Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society): Backbiting cuts faith. Backbiting leads to bad end. The Du’a of the one who does backbiting abundantly is not answered. One loses the spirituality of Salah and Sawm due to backbiting. Backbiting destroys virtuous deeds. Backbiting burns virtuous deeds. One who does backbiting will be the last to enter Paradise even after repenting of it. In short, backbiting is a grave sin, absolutely Haraam and an act leading to Hell.

(4) Speaks words o f unbelief:

Dear Islamic brothers! At present, due to lack of knowledge some people are getting so much uncontrolled that whatever comes to their mind they speak

immediately. They do not think even for a moment what they are saying. This habit of speaking uselessly makes a person speak what he should not speak and puts him into hot water. Sometimes even a person utters words of unbelief and loses his most precious thing ‘faith’ and he does not know at all about it that he no longer remains a Muslim and also has invalidated his Nikah (marriage). Some people are very inconsiderate. They want such confirmation after every utterance unnecessarily: Yes brother! Is it ok or not? Am I saying wrong! What do you think? Now, at all costs, a person has to say yes to agree to his statement and thus doing this, he commits the sin of telling a lie. People who speak uselessly speak sometimes of apostasy; or rather مَعَاذَاللہ عَزَّوَجَلَّ utter words of unbelief in order to get confirmation as per their habit. They utter such sentences: Yes, brother! I am saying right, am not I? And make their listeners also utter ‘yes’ to them and sometimes destroy their faith as well because supporting words of unbelief with sense and understanding is also unbelief. In order to obtain further important pieces of information about words of unbelief it is extremely useful to study Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat’s دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ excellent book ‘Questions and Answers about Kufriyyah Kalimaat’.

يارَبّ! نہ ضرورت کے سِوا کبھی کچھ بولوں

اللہ زَباں کا ہو عطا قُفلِ مدينہ

(وسائلِ بخشش مرمم ، ۹۳)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Useless conversation is condemnable in every way. Regarding this, Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It also includes useless conversation and the conversation that is useful but more than the need because it is also possible to do useful work with a brief conversation. It can also be done exaggeratedly and with repetition. When we can serve our purpose with one word, but we use two words, so the second word is useless i.e. it will be more than the need and it is also condemnable. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 141) . Therefore in order to protect the tongue, it is very necessary to

refrain from useless conversation. Our pious predecessors would spend every minute in doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but even then these righteous people would protect their tongue very much. Let’s listen to the blessed sayings of these personages about it.

It might be a useless conversation:

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would keep a piece of stone in his mouth in order to avoid conversation and would say pointing towards his tongue: It is the very thing that has taken me to the places of destruction.

… ٭ A blessed companion رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: When a person talks to me about something, I like it more to answer it than a thirsty person likes cold water, but I do not answer due to the fear that it could be a useless conversation. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 348)

…٭ Sayyiduna Musa Bin Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A monk (i.e. who is away from the world busy in worship) from Bani Israel has said: The beauty of a woman is modesty and the beauty of a wise person is silence. (Ayk chup So Sukh, pp. 16)

…٭ Sayyiduna Ruba’e Bin Khaisam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not have a worldly conversation for 20 years. In the morning, he would have an ink pot, a sheet of paper and a pen and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would write whatever conversation he would make and then in the evening he would account for his Nafs. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 3387)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Our pious predecessors would give great importance to the tongue. Despite spending every moment in Zikr and Salat these righteous people would keep a stone in their mouth in order to avoid speaking uselessly. When they would talk about something, they would write it and then would ponder over it in the evening. At present, this trait

can be found in Shaykh e Tareeqat Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ . He دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ not only acts upon the teachings of these pious predecessors, but hundreds of thousands of people have also started following the right path by virtue of the blessing of his Tarbiyyat (teachings). Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has given us many Madani In’amaat about the protection of tongue:

For example, in Madani In’aam No. 29, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ says: Have you today asked anybody the questions due to which a Muslim usually commits the sin of telling a lie? (e.g. Asking unnecessarily: Did you like our food? etc.)

It is stated in Madani In’aam 33: Have you falsely accused anyone or spoiled anyone’s name (at home and outside) today? Have you abused anyone?

Similarly, it is stated in Madani In’aam 38: Have you succeeded in refraining from untruth, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises today?

It is stated in Madani In’aam 46: Have you made any conversation in a gesture and at least 4 times in writing in order to form the habit of refraining from useless conversation by observing the Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue today?

Just ponder! All the above-mentioned Madani Inama’at are about the protection of tongue. In Madani Ina’am 46 especially the mind-set of making conversation either in a gesture or in writing has been given in order to refrain from a useless conversation. We should also make conversation in writing at least 4 times daily in order to form the habit of being silent and get rid of useless conversation. If we try, we will gradually get into the habit of talking about everything in writing. However, while making conversation in writing we should also take great care that it should not be a useless conversation because useless conversation is prohibited even in writing. May

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to avoid useless and indecent conversation and enable us to do Zikr and recite Salat Alan Nabi all the time!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّم

بچیں بے کار باتوں سے پڑھیں اے کاش کثرت سے

ترے محبوب پر ہر دَم دُرُودِ پاک ہم مولیٰ

ہماری فالتو باتوں کی عادت دُور ہو جائے

لگائیں مُستقل قفلِ مدینہ لب پہ ہم مولیٰ

(وسائل بخشش مرمم ، ۹۹)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Madani In’amaat

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy serving Islam in more or less 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat. As per the desire of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, Majlis Madani In’amaat has been established to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the male and female Islamic students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing Muslims and to persuade them to act upon the Madani In’amaat. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable all the Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters to act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the responsible Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate booklets of these Madani In’amaat in their Halqah [area] so that every Muslim practises them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the great gift of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the Grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s make intention that we will actively take part in this virtuous deed. We will not only act upon the

Madani In’amaat ourselves, but we will also persuade other Islamic brothers to do so.

Summary of speech:

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s speech, we have been privileged to listen about the importance and benefit of refraining from useless conversation and observing Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue. Surely

By protecting the tongue, one attains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

By virtue of the blessing of observing Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, one stays safe.

Silence is a high act of worship.

Silence is a beauty of a wise person.

One who refrains from useless conversation is blessed with wisdom.

Excess of conversation and the habit of useless conversation become a cause of destruction.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like useless and indecent conversation.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to observe the Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue by refraining from useless conversation!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Du’a to stay safe from backbiting:

Allamah Majduddin Firauzabadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی has stated, ‘When you sit in a gathering and recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will designate an angel for you that will keep you from backbiting. When you leave the gathering, recite بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ وَ صَلَّى اللّٰهُ عَلٰى مُحَمَّد, the angel will keep others from backbiting against you.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badī’, pp. 278)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of conversation

1. Make conversation smilingly and politely.

2. With the intention of pleasing Muslims, talk respectfully with the elders and kindly with the youngsters. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. Talking loudly as if you are shouting, as friends do, is not a Sunnah.

4. With good intentions, make it your habit to talk politely even with a newborn baby. Your manners will improve and the child will also learn good manners.

5. During a conversation, one should not do anything disgusting such as touching the private parts, removing dirt from the body with the fingers, touching the nose or putting fingers into the ears, nose or repeatedly spitting etc. People are disgusted by such acts.

6. Calmly continue listening as long as the other person is speaking. Interrupting someone’s conversation is not a Sunnah.

7. There should be a genuine purpose of the conversation. Always talk to people according to their level of wisdom and awareness.

1. Avoid foul and indecent talks. Refrain from vulgarism. Remember! Swearing at a Muslim without any Shar’i permission is absolutely Haraam (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 21, pp. 127) and Heaven is Haram on the one engaged in indecent conversation. (Kitab-us-Samt, pp. 204, vol. 7, Raqm 325)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللہ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللہ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللہ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

