اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtue of the Blessed Companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ يَا اَيُّهَا النَّاسُ اِنَّ اَنْجَاكُمْ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ مِنْ اَهْوَالِهَا وَ مَوَاطِنِهَا اَكْثَرُكُمْ عَلَىَّ صَلَاةً فِىْ دَارِ الدُّنْيَا ’ O people! Undoubtedly, from the terror and accountability of the Day of Judgement,

the person who would attain the quick salvation will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me in abundance in the world.

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The eminence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is such incomparable that no one can ever reach their status and rank. Same blessed personalities presented their physical and financial sacrifices for the uplifting of Islam. They never stopped showing patience while facing hardships in travelling to propagate Islam by leaving their homes. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are Muslims, the commands of Allah Almighty that we have in the shape of Holy Quran and the blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that we have in the shape of blessed Ahadees are also a result of the untiring efforts and struggles of these sacred personalities. Therefore, we should develop the devotion and greatness of those in our hearts who have done favours to us, spend our lives while following their footsteps, refrain from even slightest bit of their disrespect and reproach, and always keep talking good about them. (Islamic) scholars state: Whenever they (the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) are spoken of, it is Fard to do so with goodness. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 1, Hadees 252)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Event of Sayyiduna Bishr Haafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

Sayyiduna Bishr Haafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I was once blessed with beholding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my dream. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to me: “O Bishr! Do you know why has Allah Almighty blessed you with a higher rank than all your contemporary Awliya?” I humbly said: “Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم I don’t know the reason for it.” Then the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: بِاِتِّباعِكَ لِسُنَّتی i.e. you follow my Sunnah. وَخِدْمَتِكَ لِلصَّالِحِيْنَ you serve the pious people. وَنَصِيْحَتِكَ لِاِ خْوَانِك you advise your Islamic brothers. وَمَحَبَّتِكَ لِاَصْحابِيْ وَاَهْلِ بَيْتِيْ you love my Companions and Ahl-e-Bayt (رِضْوَانُ اللہِ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِمْ اَجْمَعِیْن). This is the very reason that has elevated you to the ranks of the pious people.”

(Ar-Risalat-ul-Qushayriyyah, pp. 31)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have heard that how greatly Allah Almighty blessed Sayyiduna Bishr Haafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه due to his love and following of Ahl-e-Bayt-e-Athaar and the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم that he was blessed with beholding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as attained the highest rank among his contemporary Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . We should also live our life while having their love in our hearts and following their footsteps. Moreover, avoid the company of those who disrespect them and adopt the company of those devotees of Rasool who mention the eminence and dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم profusely. Adopt the company of those who recite out of respect upon taking their names.

Remember! Respect for the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is mandatory for every Muslim. After the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are the most deserving of reverence and dignity among all the people. They are those sacred personalities who showed submissiveness to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم when he invited them to Islam. When they embraced Islam they became determined to spread the universal and eternal message of Islam in every corner of the world sacrificing their wealth, life and soul. History is evident that these sacred personalities gave such incomparable sacrifices in order to spread the teachings of Quran and Hadees and hoisting the flag of Islam high that today one cannot even think about it. Beholding the beautiful face of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a great privilege that no other blessing of this entire world can equate to it; and the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are those who beheld the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and attained blessings from his blessed company day and night. They heard the Holy Quran and Deen from the blessed tongue of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and were the addressees of the commands of Allah Almighty directly without any chain in between. Allah Almighty showers limitless blessings and grace upon these sacred personalities. Therefore, in order to succeed in both worlds, we should develop the love for these sacred personalities in our hearts and try to spend our lives following their footsteps. Let’s listen to the definition of Sahabi [companion].

Definition of Sahabi [companion]

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Sahabi [companion] in Shari’ah is the one who sees the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the state of Iman and sanity, or got the privilege of his صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم company and also passed away in the state of Iman.

(Mirat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 8, pp. 334)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Blessed companions are the greatest of Awliya

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! All the prominent and distinguished Islamic scholars have consensus over the fact that the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are اَفْضَلُ الْاَوْلِیَاء (i.e. superior to all the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی). I.e. Even if all the blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی until the Day of Judgement attain the highest ranks of Wilayah, yet they can never reach the greatness of Wilayah of any Sahabi at all. Allah Almighty blessed the ardent devotees of His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with such elevated ranks of Wilayah and such great saintly miracles which cannot even be imagined for the other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . There is no doubt in the fact that not many saintly miracles were manifested by the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم as compared to those narrated from the other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . But remember! Excess of saintly miracles is not proof of the superiority of Wilayah; because Wilayah actually refers to the closeness to Allah Almighty. More the closeness one will have in the court of Allah Almighty, higher his rank will be in Wilayah. Because the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are blessed with the luminosity and grace of Nubuwwah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, hence the rank that they have attained in the court of Allah Almighty cannot be attained by the other blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut- Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states in ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’, volume 1, page 252, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم [are those who] possess goodness and piety, and are

just. Whenever they are spoken of, it is Fard to do so only with goodness. Having ill-feelings towards them is a heretical act, misguidance and something that makes one deserving of Hell.

He further states: All the blessed companions regardless of any rank, are the dwellers of Paradise. (Let alone them entering the Hell), they will not even hear the slightest of the noise of Hell and will always remain as per their heartfelt desires. The severe horror of the Judgement day will not sadden them. Angels will welcome them saying that this is the day you were promised for. All this content is mentioned in the Glorious Quran.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 254)

Sequence of superiority among the Sahabah

While mentioning the sequence of superiority among the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, A’la Hadrat, revivalist of Sunnah, eradicator of Bid’ah, scholar of Shari’ah, guide of Tareeqah, Ash-Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states in ‘Fatawa Razawiyyah Shareef’, volume 28, page 478: ‘Ahl-us-Sunnah wal-Jam’ah نَصَرَہُمُ اللہُ تَعَالیٰ (may Allah Help them) have consensus over that fact that after Mursaleen-e-Mala’ikah-o-Rusul-o-Ambiya-e-Bashar (Rasool of humans and angels) صَلَواتُ اللہِ تَعَالیٰ وَتَسْلِیْماتُہ عَلَیْہِمْ, the Khulafa-e-Arba’ah (i.e. Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar, Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam, Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani and Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada) رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم are the most superior among the entire creation of Allah Almighty. No one from the previous Ummahs or the present one can reach the level of their nobility, greatness, reverence, dignity, eminence, closeness to Allah Almighty and Wilayah.” (Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 28, 478)

Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Badr-ut-Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: After Khulafa-e-Rashideen, superiority lies for the remaining ‘Asharah-e-Mubashsharah, Hasanayn-e-Karimayn, companions of Badr and then the companions of Bayt-e-Ridwan رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Moreover, they all are absolutely Paradise-dwellers.

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: The one who مَعاذَ اللہ speaks ill of the Shaykhayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا is a disbeliever, and the one who considers Maula Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to be superior to Siddeeq-e-Akbar and Umar-e-Farooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا will not be a disbeliever but is a misguided person. (Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 14, pp. 251 - 252)

Among the same companions, Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is also an illustrious companion, who used to inscribe the Wahee [Divine revelations] and was the first king of Islam. Although his kingship is a kingdom but whose? Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Imam Hassan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ handed over Khilafat to Ameer-e-Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ himself and had a pledge of allegiance to him. Being disrespectful to Sayyiduna Ameer Mu’awiyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, or his father Sayyiduna Abu Sufyan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ or his mother Sayyidatuna Hindah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is also a cause of displeasure to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 254)

It is strictly Haraam to indulge in those (controversial) events which took place amongst the Sahabah. Muslims should see that all the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم are the ardent devotees and true slaves of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 254)

Glorious Quran and the dignity of Sahabah

Dear Islamic brothers! There are various Ayahs in the Holy Quran that praise and commend the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Those Ayahs mention their righteous deeds, good character and accomplished faith. Moreover, they have been given the glad tiding of forgiveness and eternal rewards within this world. Who can understand the greatness and eminence of those sacred personalities whose dignity and greatness has been mentioned by Allah Almighty? Therefore, Allah Almighty says in part 10, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah no 74:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا وَ هَاجَرُوْا وَ جٰهَدُوْا فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِ وَ الَّذِیْنَ اٰوَوْا وَّ نَصَرُوْۤا اُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ حَقًّاؕ-لَهُمْ مَّغْفِرَةٌ وَّ رِزْقٌ كَرِیْمٌ(۷۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who believed and migrated and fought in the Path of Allah, and those who gave shelter and provided help; it is they who are the true believers; for them is pardon and an honourable sustenance.

(Part 10, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 74)

Similarly, while giving the glad tidings of His pleasure, paradise and success to the blessed Sahabah, Allah Almighty says in part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah no 100:

رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُ وَ اَعَدَّ لَهُمْ جَنّٰتٍ تَجْرِیْ تَحْتَهَا الْاَنْهٰرُ خٰلِدِیْنَ فِیْهَاۤ اَبَدًاؕ-ذٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِیْمُ(۱۰۰)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him, and He has kept ready for them Gardens beneath which rivers flow; to abide in it forever and ever; only this is the great success.

(Part 11, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 100)

Blessed Ahadees and the dignity of the blessed Sahabah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How great and elevated is the dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم that Allah Almighty accepted their deeds and relayed them the glad tidings of His pleasure, Paradise and the great achievement. The Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of Allah Almighty also mentioned the dignity and greatness of his beloved Companions on different occasions. In order to reap blessings, let’s listen to five blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in relation to the excellence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

Four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the excellence of Sahabah

1. A person asked the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who are better people? He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Better people are of the era I am in. After this, those of the second era and after them, those of the third era. (Muslim, pp. 1371, Hadees 2533)

2. Allah Almighty gave superiority to my Companions over the entire Universe except for Ambiya and Rasools عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام . (Mu’jam-uz-Zawa’id, vol. 9, pp. 736, Hadees 16383)

3. The fire of Hell will not touch the Muslim who has had the privilege of beholding me or my companion. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 461, Hadees 3884)

4. Among my companions, whoever passes away in whichever land, he will be resurrected as a Noor and guide for them on the Day of Judgement. (Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 464, Hadees 3891)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the eminence of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is extremely elevated. No one can attain their rank and status through Salah, Sawm and other righteous actions at all. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: “(O people!) You want to surpass the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in Salah, Sawm and Ijtihad; (remember! This is impossible because) they are better than you.” People humbly said: “O Abu Abdur Rahman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, what is the reason for this?” He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied: “They would adopt abstinence the most and would be inclined towards the Hereafter the most in this world (hence, even if your actions exceed theirs, still they would remain less in terms of the reward attained).” (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 8, pp. 162, Hadees 35)

One day, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ left Masjid while rubbing his hands restlessly after offering Salah-tul-Fajr and said, “The state in which I saw the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I do not see any person today resembling them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would

stay awake all night long and recite the Holy Quran in Salah. In the morning, their hair would look scattered and face would look pale. They would shake while walking and their eyes would remain moist with tears. And the state of people nowadays is that everyone is wandering around heedlessly and fearlessly. Sign of the fear of Allah Almighty is not visible on anybody’s face. The day he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ mentioned this, no one ever saw him laughing after that. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 226)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! While worrying over the practical condition of the Muslims of his era, Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is recalling the blessed companions’ رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم acts of worship and their steadfastness in the recitation of the Holy Quran; whereas, now our state is such that we are sinking deeper into the pits of sins day by day. Our days and nights are being spent in disobeying Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . First of all, we do not perform the righteous action. And in case we end up performing one, then the desire of being acclaimed and becoming famous as righteous among people keeps us restless. Would that! We get the privilege of hiding our righteous deeds in a similar manner as we hide our sins and consider it to be sufficient that Allah Almighty knows our righteous deeds. Especially after performing a hidden righteous deed, the Nafs shall be supervised strictly. As it is possible that the urge for revealing the act of worship develops within the Nafs and it traps you by saying that reveal this act of worship upon people, as people will not come to know about your rank and status if you keep it concealed from them. So they will remain deprived of following you. In this case, how would you become the leader and guide of people? How would the call towards righteousness spread through you? Etc., in such a situation, one shall supplicate to Allah Almighty for steadfastness and perseverance and shall keep in mind the great eternal blessing of Paradise in exchange for his action. One shall scare himself that the one who desires reward from people for the worship of Allah Almighty, the wrath of Allah Almighty befalls on him.

Moreover, it is also possible that due to revealing his action in front of others, he becomes beloved to them but his rank and status decreases in the court of Allah Almighty! Lest my action also gets wasted in the same way! Furthermore, he shall make his Nafs understand in the following manner that how can I sell my action in exchange for the praise of people? They themselves are helpless and powerless. They can neither provide me sustenance and nor do they control my life and death. Therefore, while performing the acts of worship, recitation of the Holy Quran and other righteous actions, one shall only desire the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Otherwise, not only will one lose the reward of the action, but can also be deserving of the wrath of Allah Almighty by falling prey to the destructions of ostentation (showing off).

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Dars’, one Madani activity out of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to develop the love of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and refrain from the destructions of ostentation, associate yourself with the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and also partake in the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. Every Islamic brother should have some kind of organizational responsibility. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, one will attain the privilege of offering five times daily Salah. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, one will get the opportunity of performing numerous righteous actions. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, one will get the opportunity of learning and teaching the knowledge of Deen. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, one will keep getting the privilege of acting upon the Madani In’amaat and travelling in the Madani Qafilahs. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, one will attain righteous company. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, hatred and animosity will turn into devotion and serenity. Due to the blessings of this responsibility, we would also have taken part in the ‘filling Masajid’ and ‘constructing Masajid’ movement. Due

to the blessings of this responsibility, one will get the opportunity of acting upon the Sunnahs as well as imparting them to others. Therefore, we shall remain busy in Madani activities according to our organizational responsibilities. Out of the 12 Madani activities, the Madani activity that we have passion for, we shall start spreading invitation towards righteousness by performing those Madani activities after contacting our Zimmahdaran. Out of the 12 Madani activities, one Madani activity of daily basis is also “Madani Dars.” This is a great way of learning and teaching the Islamic knowledge. Except for few books, delivering Dars from the books and booklets of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah, Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attari Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ, especially from ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat’ volume one and the following chapters of ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat’ volume two (1) ‘Backbiting – Cancer of society’ and (2) ‘Call towards righteousness’ in Masjid, square, market, shop, office and home etc. is called as ‘Madani Dars’ according to the organizational terminology.

٭ Madani Dars is a great Madani activity. Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, one gets the privilege of going to the Masjid again and again.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, one gets the blessings of studying.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, Sunnah of meeting and saying Salaam to Muslims gets propagated.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, one can impart the precious Madani pearls filled with Islamic knowledge from the books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat on different topics to the Muslim Ummah.

٭ Madani Dars is extremely useful in making non-Salah offering people punctual on Salah.

٭ Madani Dars is also a greatest of the means to convey the call towards righteousness even to those who remain deprived of coming to the Masjid.

٭ Besides Masjid, if Madani Dars is also delivered at the square, market, shop, etc., then the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami will also be publicized and acclaimed over there too.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Dars, introduction of the different books and booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat will also spread around.

Let’s listen to a faith refreshing parable regarding the ‘Madani Dars’.

Attained salvation from bad companies

The character of an Islamic brother of Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore, Pakistan) had become so worse due to the bad company that neither did he have any compassion towards the children, and nor did he care about respecting and revering the elders. He had developed the habit of arguing and quarrelling over everything, to the extent that even his own family had become fed up with him due to his bad habits. One day, he was blessed with the privilege of attending the Dars of ‘Faizan-e-Sunnat’. Thereafter, he started attending the Dars regularly. This way, due to the blessing of the ‘Madani Dars’, he repented of his previous (sinful) life, abandoned bad companies and got associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is highly elevated. Allah Almighty and His Beloved Habeeb صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have commended them. Remember! There was a terrace at an edge of Masjid e Nabawi. A roof with the date leaves was constructed over it. This very is called ‘Suffah’. The blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم who did not have a home etc., used to sleep and stay in this and the same very Companions were called the ‘Ashaab-e-Suffah’. (Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 68; Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah; Az Sharah Zurqaani, vol. 2, pp. 186)

They are those sacred personalities whom Allah Almighty protected from the decor and luxuries of this world. When the Ashaab-e-Suffah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم desired for this world, then the following Ayah was revealed:

وَ لَوْ بَسَطَ اللّٰهُ الرِّزْقَ لِعِبَادِهٖ لَبَغَوْا فِی الْاَرْضِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And had Allah increased the sustenance for all of His bondsmen, so they would have definitely caused turmoil in the earth.

(Part 25, Surah Ash-Shoora, Ayah 27)

(Az-Zuhd La-Bin Mubarak, pp. 194, Hadees 554)

Sayyiduna Haafiz Abu Nu’aym Ahmad Bin Abdullah Asfahani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: ‘Allah Almighty kept this world away from the Ashaab-e-Suffah in order to shower grace upon them and to protect them from disobedience. They remained safe from being narrow-hearted in relation to fulfilling the commands of Allah Almighty and refrained from the worldly matters. Neither did the worldly wealth dishonour them and nor did the social circumstances bring any change in their state.’ Let’s listen to the dignity of Ashaab-e-Suffah in the light of the blessed Ahadees.

Compassion of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon Ashaab-e-Suffah

Sayyiduna Abdul Rahman Bin Abi Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates that those living in Suffah were destitute people. And Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘The one who has food for two people should take the third one with him, and the one who has food for four people should take the fifth or sixth one with him.’ Or what he has stated. Then, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ took three people with him and Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took ten people with him. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 291, Hadees 3581)

Would send Sadaqah to the people of Suffah

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by me and said: ‘O Abu Hurayrah!’ I humbly replied: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! I am present.” He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: “Go to the people of Suffah and

call them along.” Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: “People of Suffah were the guests of Islam. They would not go to their households and riches. Whenever Sadaqah would be received in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would send it to the people of Suffah and would not consume even a little bit from it himself. Whenever a Hadyah (present) would be presented in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also include the people of Suffah in it. (Bukhari, pp. 542, Hadees 6452)

Similarly, whenever anyone would come in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and would know somebody in Madinah Munawwarah, then he would stay at his house. And if he would not have anyone that he knew, then he would stay with the people of Suffah.’ He states: ‘I was among those people who would stay with the people of Suffah. Then I became acquainted with one person who would send one Mudd (approx. 1 Kg.) dates to two people every day on behalf of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ (Al-Ihsaan Bi-Tarteeb Sahib Ibn Habbaan, vol. 8, pp. 241, Hadees 6649)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that how great and illustrious were the people of Suffah who were loved by the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and they too ardently loved the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They would always remain engaged in the zikr of Allah Almighty. They refrained benefitting from worldly bounties and accumulating wealth all their lives so that the Nafs does not make them fall prey to disobedience. State of their hunger was such that they would fall down during Qiyam due to weakness.

State of hunger of the people of Suffah

Sayyiduna Fazalah Bin ‘Ubayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that when the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be leading people in Salah, then many people among the people of Suffah would be unable to perform Qiyam and fall down due to their weakness because of hunger; to the extent that the villagers would say that ‘they are insane.’ (Tirmizi, pp. 1889, Hadees 2368)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: ‘People of Suffah were seventy, but neither of them had a shawl.’ (Al-Ihsaan Bi-Tarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 2, pp. 36, Hadees 681)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that how simple but ascetic were the people of Suffah. Despite being poor, their practices and acts of worship would not get hindered. Allah Almighty made them the leader of the poor and destitute. May Allah Almighty also enable us to spend our lives having their love in our hearts and grant us a death with Iman and well-being. May we be blessed with the neighbourhood of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and that of his beloved Companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم in the Paradise. Remember! Whoever one loves in this world will be with him on the Day of Judgement.

Blessed Ahadees and the love of the Sahabah

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states that a person humbly asked the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘When will the Day of Judgement arrive?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘What have you prepared for it?’ He humbly said: ‘Nothing, but I love Allah Almighty and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘You will be with the one whom you love.’ Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: ‘We did not receive as much happiness from any other thing as much we did from this blessed saying of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that ‘You will be with the one whom you love. ’ Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: ‘I love the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyiduna Siddeeq and Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا . I am hopeful that due to loving them, I will remain with them (on the Day of Judgement).’ (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 527, Hadees 3688)

Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: “The one who pleased any of my companions has pleased me, and the one who pleased me has pleased Allah Almighty, and the one who pleased Allah Almighty, then it is upon the Mercy of Allah Almighty to please him and enter him in Paradise. (Hikayatayn aur Nasihatayan)

Saying of Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub Sakhtayani

Sayyiduna Abu Ayyub Sakhtayani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The one who loved Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, has established a sign of Deen. The one who loved Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, has clarified the path of Deen. The one who loved Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, has attained

luminosity from the Noor of Allah Almighty. The one who loved Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, has held a strong rope. The one who said: Goodness lies in all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he has been freed from hypocrisy. (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraaf-il-Kaba’ir)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Command to follow the blessed companions

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know that love of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is a means for attaining paradise, get their blessed company in Paradise, liberation from hypocrisy and attaining the pleasure of Allah Almighty. The fortunate one who follows these sacred personalities with goodness succeeds in attaining the pleasure of Allah Almighty. Therefore, Allah Almighty states:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ اتَّبَعُوْهُمْ بِاِحْسَانٍۙ-رَّضِیَ اللّٰهُ عَنْهُمْ وَ رَضُوْا عَنْهُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who followed them with virtue; Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him.

(Part 11, At-Taubah, Ayah 100)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, Maulana Sayyid Mufti Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states under this blessed Ayah: One opinion is that followers refer to those faithful people until the Day of Judgement who will follow Ansaar and Muhajireen in the matters of Iman, obedience and righteousness.

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: اَصْحَابِیْ کَالنُّجُوْمِ فَبِاَیِّھِمْ اِقْتَدَیْتُمْ اِھْتَدَیْتُمْ i.e. my companions are like stars. Whomsoever you follow among them, you will attain guidance.

(Mishkat, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6018)

In the commentary of this Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: سُبْحَانَ اللّٰہ! What a beautiful resemblance it is. Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم as the stars of guidance, and in another Hadees, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم referred to his Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم as the ark of Nooh. A traveller of the sea is in need of an ark as well as the guidance of the stars as the arks in the sea sail through the guidance of stars. Similarly, for the Imaani [spiritual] life, the Muslim Ummah is in need of the Ahl-e-Bayt Athaar رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم as well as the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . Guidance lies for the Muslim Ummah only in following the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Miraat-ul-Manajeeh, vol. 8, pp. 345)

Sayyiduna ‘Irbaaz Bin Sariyaah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: One day after the morning Salah, Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم gave us some pieces of advice which made tears flow from the eyes and a state of uneasiness took over us. One person said that this advice seems to be of someone who is about to separate from us. In such a case, what would you like us to vow? Then Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘I bequeath you to fear Allah Almighty and obey your Ameer [leader] after listening to him, (no matter who has been appointed as your Ameer). Whoever among you remains alive will see numerous differences. Therefore, remain protected from new misguiding innovations. Whosoever out of you finds that time, it is obligatory upon him to act upon my Sunnah and that of my rightly guided Khulafa-e-Rashideen. Remain determined on that Sunnah firmly. (Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 308, Hadees 2685)

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrates that Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا narrated: If somebody wants to follow someone, he should follow the Aslaaf [righteous predecessors], who are the Companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is them who are the best of the people of this Ummah. Their hearts are inclined the most towards righteousness and goodness among all the people. Their knowledge is vastest among all and they had no element of showing off. They were those sacred personalities who were chosen by Allah Almighty for the company for His Beloved Habeeb صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the propagation of Islam. Therefore, you should follow their character, conducts and ways because they are the companions of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I swear by the Lord of Ka’bah! They were the

ones who trod upon the right path of guidance. (Allah walon ki Baatayn, vol. 1, pp. 537)

Got rescued through the sake of Siddeeq and ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا

A person narrates that a friend of my teacher passed away. My teacher saw him in his dream and asked: ’’ مَا فَعَلَ اللّٰہُ بِکَ ‘‘ i.e. How did Allah Almighty deal with you?” He replied: “Allah Almighty forgave me.” He asked: “How did it go with Munkar Nakeer (i.e. angels questioning in the grave)?” He replied: “When they sat me up and started questioning, Allah Almighty placed this thought in my heart and I said to the angels: ‘Leave me for the sake of Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar and Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا .’ Listening to it, one angel said to the other: ‘He has presented the Wasilah [sake] of very noble personalities. Therefore, leave him.’ Hence, they spared me and left. (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 141)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Every Muslim should talk good about the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم with extreme respect and reverence. Their love and devotion should be embedded into our hearts because the love of Allah Almighty and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lie in their love and having enmity against them is a sign of hypocrisy and a depriving yourself of the mercy of Allah Almighty. Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrates that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘The one who speaks ill of any of my companions, may the curse of Allah Almighty be upon him.’ (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 500, Hadees 1846)

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever hurt them (the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم) hurt me, and whoever hurt me displeased Allah Almighty. And whoever displeases Allah Almighty, soon Allah Almighty will hold him to account. (Mishkat, vol. 2, pp. 414, Hadees 6014)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Do not speak ill of my companions. I swear by the one under whose omnipotence my life is! If anyone of you even spends gold equivalent

to the mount Uhud (in the path of Allah Almighty), still he cannot reach the amount of one Mudd (approx. 1 Kg.) or even half of it of any one of them. (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 282, Hadees 4658)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Maula-e-Ka’inaat, Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: “Indeed, Allah Almighty has made the love of Abu Bakr, Umar, Usman and Ali رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم Fard (obligatory) upon you the way Salah, Sawm, Zakah and Hajj have been made Fard upon you. So whosoever keeps enmity towards even any one of them, then Allah Almighty will neither accept his Salah, nor Zakah, nor Sawm and nor Hajj. Moreover, he will be thrown in the Hell from the grave. (Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 1, pp. 173, Hadees 645)

Declaring war against Allah Almighty

Imam Ibn-e-Hajar Makki Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: One who swore at all the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم or any one of them, he declared war against Allah Almighty. And the one who declared war against Allah Almighty, Allah Almighty will destroy and disgrace him. This is the reason why the Islamic scholars say: ‘If the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are spoken ill of in front of somebody, for example associating any fault towards them, then stopping from indulging in it is not only Wajib for him, rather, just like all other evils, it is Wajib upon him to deny it according to his power and capability; first through hand, then through tongue and lastly denying it in the heart. In fact, this sin is the severest. (Jahannam Mayn lay Janay walay a’maal, pp. 834)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know that reproaching and taunting the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is an extremely evil act; as Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم praise and commend them (the blessed companions), whereas this insolent person reproaches and taunts them. Undoubtedly, this very action of his is due to his corrupt beliefs and hypocrisy. Such people will eventually face disgrace and the torment of fire in

the Hereafter, they will become a sign of admonition for the people in this world as well.

Snake wrapped around the neck

Sayyiduna Abu Ishaaq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that: I was called to give Ghusl to a deceased. When I removed the cloth from his face, there was snake wrapped around his neck. People said that he used to swear at the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Sharh-us-Sudoor, pp. 173)

Under this incident, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ states: مَعَاذَ اللہ, swearing at the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is a sin, a grave sin, strictly Haraam and an action that leads towards the Hell. Sadr ul Afadil, Maulana Sayyid Mufti Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Muslim should hold extreme reverence for the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and embed their sacred love and respect in their hearts. Their love is the love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . And the unfortunate one who uses his tongue to disrespect the dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is the enemy of Allah Almighty and His beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A Muslim shall not sit in his company. (Sawanih-e-Karbala, pp. 31)

Dear Islamic brothers! We shall lead our lives while having the love of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in our hearts and following their Seerah. Moreover, those who are insolent towards the dignity of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, we shall distance ourselves from their evil company. In order to learn more about the dignity and greatness of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, read the books ‘Karamaat-e-Sahabah’ and ‘Sahabah-e-Kiraam ka Ishq-e-Rasool’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madina, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. May Allah Almighty enable us to live our lives while following the Seerah of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis-e-Khuddam-ul-Masajid

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is carrying out Madani activities in more or less 104 departments. Out of them, one is the “Khuddam-ul-Masajid”. Under this department, Masajid are built in the areas where there is a need for Masajid. Moreover, enlivening those Masajid, i.e. appointing Aimmah, Muazzineen and Khutaba as well as arranging their salaries is also under this department. This department is actually a result of the love and passion Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ has towards Masajid. He has the yearning of enlivening the Masajid. You can also get a gist of this from the fact that he has considered ‘Dawat-e-Islami’ to be a Masjid Bharo Tahreek [movement for populating Masajid]. He keeps persuading to populate Masajid in the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtimas and Madani Muzakarahs from time to time. Would that! We also become among those who build and enliven Masajid by performing individual efforts upon people according to the Madani mindset of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of walking

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some Sunan and manners of walking from the booklet ‘ 163 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ:

٭ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah number 37:

وَ لَا تَمْشِ فِی الْاَرْضِ مَرَحًاۚ-اِنَّكَ لَنْ تَخْرِقَ الْاَرْضَ وَ لَنْ تَبْلُغَ الْجِبَالَ طُوْلًا(۳۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; you can never split the earth, nor be as high as the mountains.

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 37)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has said: A man covered with two shawls was strutting and was puffed up with pride. He was made to sink into the earth, and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

٭ When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم walked, he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would lean a little bit forward as if he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ul-Muhammadiyyah lit-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Raqm 118)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of walking will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 22 November 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of walking

٭ If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Don’t be so fast that people start looking at you thinking that where is he going in such haste. Do not walk too slowly either that people may assume that you are ill.

٭ It is not Sunnah to look here and there unnecessarily while walking. Walk with dignity and with your gaze lowered.

٭ While walking or coming up or down the stairs, take care that your shoes do not make noise.

٭ If there are two women standing or going on a way, do not pass between them. It has been prohibited in blessed Hadees. [1]

٭ Some people have the habit of kicking whatever comes in their way. This is a very ill-mannered practice. There is also a danger of your foot getting injured.

٭ Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water having inscriptions on them is also very disrespectful.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a when kissing thumbs [in reply to Azan]

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a ‘ at the time of kissing thumbs ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

صَلَّی اﷲُ عَلَیْکَ یَارَسُوْلَ اﷲِ

قُرَّۃُ عَیْنِیْ بِکَ یَارَسُوْلَ اﷲِ

اَللّٰھُمَّ مَتِّعْنِیْ بِالسَّمْعِ وَالْبَصَرِ

Translation: May Allah’s Durood upon you Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم . Ya Rasoolallah! You are a solace to me. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Benefit me by my ability of hearing and seeing.

Dear Islamic brothers! When the Muazzin says ‘ اَشْھَدُ اَنَّ مُحَمَّدًا رَّسُوْلُ اﷲ ’ the first time, the replier should make thumb nails touch eyes and say: ‘ صَلَّی اﷲُ عَلَیْکَ یا رَسُوْلَ اﷲِ ’. When the Muazzin utters these words again, the replier should make thumb nails touch eyes again and say: ‘ قُرَّۃُ عَیْنِیْ بِکَ یَا رَسُوْلَ اﷲِ اَللّٰھُمَّ مَتِّعْنِیْ بِالسَّمْعِ وَالْبَصَرِ ’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

