اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Eminence of Sayyidatuna ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Durood

Umm-ul-Mu'mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا narrates that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃٌ لَّہٗ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

I.e. the one who would recite Salat upon me on Friday, his intercession would be upon my mercy on the Day of Judgement. (Kanz-ul-'Ummal, juz. 1, vol. 1, pp. 255, Hadees 2236)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3. I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7. During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8. Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9. Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Ramadhan! The blessed month of Ramadhan is ongoing. 17 th of Ramadhan marks the day of demise [‘Urs] of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Wife of the Holy Rasool, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah, Muftiyyah, Mufassirah, Muhaddisah, Faqeeha, Aabidah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

In the same context, let’s be blessed with listening to some bright aspects of her eminence, greatness, attributes, excellence and blessed Seerah today. Let’s first of all listen to her brief introduction.

Introduction of Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is Umm-ul-Mu`mineen (i.e. the mother of believers). Her name is ‘Aisha, Kunyah is Umm-e-‘Abdullah, mother’s name is Umm-e-Raumaan and father’s name is Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Madarij un Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 468)

She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا departed this world on 17 th Ramadhan-ul-Mubarak 57 or 58 AH in Madinah-e-Munawwarah. Sayyiduna Abu Huraira رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led her funeral Salah. As per her will, people laid her to rest in Jannat-ul-Baqi’ beside other Azwaaj-e-Mutahharat [noble wives] during the night time. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 392)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Sahaba and Ahl-e-Bayt! All the Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen are indeed superior to other women in rank, status and various excellences. All of them are Waliyyahs of the highest ranks. They are the mothers of this Ummah possessing the most beautiful virtues and being a true reflection of knowledge and piety. But the status of Umm-ul-Mu'mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is like that of a sun among them all. By the virtue of the merciful gaze of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was known as the scholar, Muftiyah, Muhaddisah and Mufassirah of her time. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is that fortunate woman who was blessed with having

the company of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even at the time of his apparent demise.

Special companionship and closeness to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

(While mentioning the state of the last moments of the apparent life of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: “(When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was feeling pain due to the intensity of the illness, at that time), my brother Abdur Rahman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ came to me. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had a Miswak in his hand. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started looking at him. I knew that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم likes Miswak. Therefore, I humbly said: ‘Shall I take the Miswak for you?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said “yes” through the gesture of his blessed head. So, I took that Miswak from Sayyiduna Abdur Rahman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم felt it to be hard. I humbly said: “Shall I soften it?” The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied from the gesture of his blessed head: “Yes”. So I (chewed and) softened the Miswak.

Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a bowl of water in front of him. He صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would dip his blessed hand in, touch his blessed face with it and say: “ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ،اِنَّ لِلْمَوْتِ سَکَرَاتٍ i.e. there is no God but Allah. Indeed, there are hardships in death.” Then, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم raised his blessed hand and said: فِی الرَّفِیْقِ الْاَعْلٰی i.e. in the Jama’at of the blessed Ambiya عَلَیْہِمُ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَام ”. To the extent that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away. (Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 157, Hadees 4449)

O devotees of Rasool! You see what a great rank Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possesses in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was not only blessed with the special closeness of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم during his apparent life, but was also blessed with the same honour during the last moments of his apparent life.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remembered this favour all her life and mentioned her dignity and greatness in order to express this blessing.

Ten superiorities

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا states: ‘I have been given ten superiorities over the blessed wives of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ It was humbly asked, ‘O Umm-ul-Mu`mineen! What are those ten superiorities?’ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said:

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not marry any other unmarried woman except for me.

2. Except me, no one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن is such whose mother and father both migrated.

3. Allah Almighty revealed my chastity from the heavens (in the Holy Quran).

4. (Before the marriage), Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came in the court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with my appearance in a silk cloth. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم humbly said: ‘Marry her because she is your wife.’

5. Me and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform Ghusl from the same container. No one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن has had this privilege except for me.

6. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to offer Tahajjud Salah whereas I used to remain asleep in front of him. No one among Azwaaj-e-Mutahharaat رِضْوَانُ اللّٰہِ عَلَیْہِنَّ اَجْمَعِیْن has been blessed with such compassionate love of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

7. At the time of the revelation of Wahi, he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would be with me. A Wahi did not reveal upon him when he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was with any other blessed wife except for me.

8. The blessed head of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was in between my chest and throat, and he صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away in the same very state.

9. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away on the day that was allocated for me.

10. The blessed grave of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was made in my house. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 659-660; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Sahabah and Ahl-e-Bayt! May we be sacrificed upon the eminence and greatness of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . Undoubtedly, the honour of being the wife of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and mother of the believers that are to come until the Day of Judgement was not any less for her. Allah Almighty showered more grace and blessings upon her as compared to the other wives of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . However, the ocean of her eminence and dignity is so deep that whoever dives into its depth finds precious pearls every single time.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has mentioned her virtues and praises in a very beautiful manner through his blessed truthful tongue. Let’s listen to four blessed Ahadees mentioning the eminence and greatness of Sayyidatuna ‘Aisha Siddiqah, Tayyibah, Taahirah, ‘Afeefah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .

Eminence of Sayyidah ‘Aisha رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا through the tongue of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

1. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to blessed Sahabah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم regarding Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: ‘Acquire two thirds of your Deen through ‘Humaira حُمَیْرا (i.e. Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا).’ (Tafseer Kabeer, part 30, Al Qadr, Taht-ul-Ayah: 3, vol. 11, pp. 232)

2. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyidah Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: ‘O Fatima! Will you not love the one whom I love?’ Sayyidah Fatima Zahra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly said: ‘Why not.’ Upon this, the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Love ‘Aisha رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا .’ (Muslim, pp. 1017, Hadees 2442)

3. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم addressed his beloved daughter, Sayyidah Fatima رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, and said: ‘I swear by the Lord of Ka’bah! Your father loves ‘Aisha (رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا) immensely.’ (Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 359, Hadees 4898)

4. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Superiority of ‘Aisha (رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا) over women is like the superiority of Sareed [1] over all foods.’ (Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 454, Hadees 3433)

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions regarding the last aforementioned Hadees: ‘Sareed, i.e. roti [loaf of bread] mixed with gravy and meat pieces, is an excellent food. It is superior to all the foods as it digests quickly, provides a lot of energy, is extremely tasty, you don’t need to chew it and it contains various attributes. Similarly, Sayyidah ‘Aisha رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed attributes like beauty, noble character, knowledge, acting upon the knowledge, eloquence of speech, wisdom, presence of mind, intellect, being the beloved of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and thousands of such attributes. Matter of the fact is that she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is superior to all the women, even Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gathered loads of Ahadees and was expert in the knowledge and sciences of the Holy Quran. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 501; summarised)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions at one place: Virtues of Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا are countless like the particles of sand and stars of the sky. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is a gift of Allah Almighty to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah Almighty testified her chastity Himself in Surah e Noor of the Holy Quran; whereas, the chastity of Sayyidah Maryam رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم was testified through a child. This Ummah obtained the convenience of Tayammum due to her. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى

عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed away (apparently) on her chest. The last resting place of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is her room. Her saliva mixed with that of the Holy Rasool’s صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of his (apparent) demise. Wahi used to be revealed to the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while he was present with her. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا herself is Siddiqah (i.e. an extremely truthful woman) and the daughter of Siddique (meaning an extremely truthful person, i.e. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 502)

Introduction of the book “Faizan-e-‘Aisha Siddiqah”

O devotees of Rasool! In order to acquire more information regarding the Seerah of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, reading the book “Faizan-e-‘Aisha Siddiqah”, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, would be very beneficial. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this book talks about the literary greatness of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . It talks about her sayings and the passion she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed to worship (Allah Almighty). This book talks about her traits like generosity and the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It talks about her individuality, how she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا looked after her domestic chores, and how she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا acted upon the blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This book mentions about her eloquence of speech, crying in Divine fear, humility and humbleness, and it contains various other Madani pearls too. The topics of this book have been derived from 215 books. Purchase this book from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah today. Read it yourself as well as persuade other Islamic sisters and Maharims to read it too.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Way of generosity and sacrifice of Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا

Dear Islamic sisters! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا also possessed immense passion of generosity and giving sacrifices for

would even donate in the path of Allah Almighty the things of her own needs too and would not keep anything for herself. Let us listen to a faith- refreshing parable regarding the generosity and sacrifice of Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and try to develop the passion of giving in the path of Allah Almighty.

Donated one hundred thousand dirhams

Sayyidah Umm-e-Durrah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا narrates: I was with Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . At that time, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا received one hundred thousand dirhams from somewhere. She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا instantly distributed all those dirhams among people and did not keep a single dirham in her house. That day, I and she were observing Sawm. I humbly said: ‘You distributed all the dirhams and did not keep a single dirham so that you could buy some meat and opened up the Sawm?’ She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: ‘Had you said it to me before, I would have got meat for one dirham.’ (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 389-392)

O devotees of Awliya! Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is among those highest ranked waliyaat who spent their entire life in worship and spiritual practices. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the way t he Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah, the Distributor of Na’mah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would offer the nawafil of Ishraq, Chasht, Tahiyyat-ul-Wudhu, Awwabeen, offer Salah at night and offered Tahajjud Salah punctually all his life etc., in addition to the five daily Salahs, similarly, Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would also offer Tahajjud and Chasht Salahs with steadfastness along with carrying out the domestic chores and serving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Steadfastness over Tahajjud Salah

It is stated on page No. 660 of the book “Seerat-e-Mustafa”, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is also highly ranked in terms of worship as well. Her nephew, Sayyiduna Imam Qasim Bin Muhammad Bin Abu Bakr Siddique رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم states: ‘Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was steadfast upon offering Tahajjud and would often observe Siyam.’ (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 660; summarised)

Love for the Chasht Salah

She رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا used to offer eight Rak’ats of Chasht Salah. Then, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا would say: ‘Even if my parents get resurrected, still I would not leave these Rak’ats.’ (Muwatta Imam Malik, pp. 153, Hadees 366)

Under the aforementioned second Hadees, Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: I.e. if I am given the news during the time of Ishraq that my parents have been resurrected and returned back, then I will not leave these Nawafil to meet them. Rather, I will first offer these Nawafil and then go kiss their feet. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 2, pp. 299)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہ! What great passion for nafl (optional) acts of worship Umm-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyidah ‘Aisha Siddiqah, ‘Aabidah, Zahidah رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا possessed. Just ponder that the one whose eminence is mentioned in the Holy Quran, whose virtues and excellences have been mentioned in Ahadees, who was called the scholar, Muftiyyah, Faqiha, Muhaddisah and Mufassirah of her time, whose eminent dignity and greatness were spread all around by the righteous predecessors; let alone leaving Faraaid, she رَضِیَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا did not even feel appropriate to leave the Nawafil of Tahajjud and Chasht Salah. However, state of many Muslims nowadays is such that they leave Nafl Salah aside, they cannot even offer Fard Salahs.

Ah! What has happened to Muslims? Why have people started to lose interest in the acts of worship? Why are people lazy in acting upon the commands of Allah Almighty and the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Why the passion of Nafl acts of worship has started to diminish away? Why people make excuses when it comes to observing Siyam?

Have people received the glad tidings of forgiveness? Is their Book of Deeds full of virtuous deeds? Are they not in need of virtuous deeds? Are they absolutely sure that they will leave this world in the state of Iman? Will they be able to endure the severities of death? Will they be able to rest in peace in

their dark graves by disobeying the commands of Shari’ah? Will they be able to succeed in the questions of the grave and the Hereafter? Undoubtedly, none of us knows any of this for sure.

Therefore, we shall appreciate our short life considering it to be a blessing. Come out of the trap of vain hopes and make yourself used to offering Nafl (optional) acts of worship as well along with offering Faraaid and Wajibat regularly. In order to make yourself accustomed to offering Faraaid, Wajibat and nafl acts of worship, performing Fikr-e-Madinah daily while acting upon “63 Madani In’amaat” given to us by Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah, Maulana, Abu Bilal, Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ is very useful. اَلْحَمْدُلِلّٰہ! By the virtue of acting upon them, we will not only act upon Faraaid and Wajibat, but will also be able to easily act upon the Sunnahs and Mustahabbat [preferable actions] too.

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a blessed Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of eating from the booklet ‘ Sunnah and Manners ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

The Noblest Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has stated: The one who likes that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ increase blessings in his home, then he should make ablution when meal is served, and also make ablution when it is taken away. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 9, Hadees 3260)

A great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: It (i.e. the ablution before meal) refers to cleaning hands and mouth, that is washing hands and rinsing mouth. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 32)

٭ Recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ) before eating. If you forget to recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه) at the beginning of meal, recite (بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ اَوَّلَهٗ وَاٰخِرَه ٗ) when you remember.

٭ Recite the following Du’a prior to eating. It will not harm even if the food is poisonous اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الَّذِیْ لَا يَضُرُّ مَعَ اسْمِهِ شَیْءٌ فِی الْاَرْضِ وَ لَا فِى السَّمَآءِ يَا حَیُّ يَا قَيُّوْمُ

Translation: I begin with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the blessing of Whose name, nothing from the earth or the skies can harm, O the One Who is ever-alive. (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 274, Hadees 1955)

٭ Eat with the right hand

٭ Eat from your side

٭ Do not find fault in food

٭ Do not say things such as, ‘ It is not tasty ’, ‘ it is still raw ’, ‘ it does not have enough salt ’. Because finding fault in food is Makruh and contrary to the Sunnah. If you like it, eat it, if you don’t, leave it.

٭ Leader of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: We should not find fault in food at our home either, as it is Makruh and contrary to the Sunnah. Blessed habit of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم was that he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would eat if he liked the food, otherwise he صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم would not eat it. Finding fault in food at others’ homes is hurting Muslims and is a proof of greed and thoughtlessness.

Announcements

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ The Madani movement of devotees of Rasool Dawateislami is presently serving Islam through approximately 107 departments in more than 200 Countries. One of these departments is Darul Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat which guides Ummah regarding Sharee matters; Jamia-tul-Madinah (Lil

baneen and banaat [Islamic brothers and sisters]) for making Scholars and Muftis; Madarasa-tul-Madinah (Lil baneen and banaat, part-time, with boarding and lodging facilities, Online, for grownups); Majlis for reformation of prisoners; Majlis special Islamic brothers for mute, speech-impaired and blind persons; Majlis Al Madinah-tul-‘Ilmia consisting of Islamic Scholars for reforming the beliefs and deeds through writing authentic books and booklets; Maktaba-tul-Madinah for quality publishing of these books; Majlis Tarajim (Translation Department) for translating in the different languages of the world; Madani Channel for propagating the true Islamic teachings; Majlis IT for promoting Dawat-e-Islami’s website (www.dawateislami.net); Majlis Overseas for propagating the blessed teaching of the Holy Quran and Sunnah to the Muslims across the globe; etc., etc., these departments are working untiringly under the Markazi Majlis-e-Shura. As the body parts play an important and beneficial role likewise these departments play a very important and essential role that is second to none.

Dear Islamic sisters! Ramadan ul Mubarak is the prime month to collect Madani donations. Therefore, please put your untiring efforts in collecting the same for the Madani activities of Dawateislami a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. In addition to paying your Zakah, Fitrah, Madani donations, Sadaqah and charity to Dawateislami also persuade other Islamic sisters for the same. Donations play a very important role in today’s era. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: “The work of Deen in the last era will be carried out by means of Dirham and Dinar” (Al-Maujam Al-Kabeer v.20, pp 279, Hadees 660)

Some Islamic sisters hesitate in collecting Madani donations, whereas, collecting donations for the propagation of Islam is proved by the Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . On the occasion of Ghazwa Tabook, construction of blessed Masjid-e-Nabawi, buying of Bair-e-Rooma etc., the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has persuaded to spend in the path of Allah Almighty.

The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘The one who gives Sadaqah for the pleasure of Allah Almighty then this (Sadaqah) becomes a veil between him and the fire’

Please give your Madani donations (charity) to Dawat-e-Islami to cover the expenses of Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Jami'a-tul-Madinah and other departments being run by Dawat-e-Islami within the country and overseas and attain Sawab-e-Jariyah (perpetual reward).

Please make intention that I will give all my Wajibah and Naafilah Sadaqahs (Zakat, Sadaqah, Charity etc.) to the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool Dawat-e-Islami اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . May Allah Almighty enable us to act accordingly.

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Shaikh-e-Tareeqat Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat conducts Madani Muzakarah daily in the blessed month of Ramadan after Asr and Taraweeh Salahs. It is telecast live on Madani Channel. All Islamic sisters are requested to attend these 2 daily Madani Muzakarahs and also persuade other family members accordingly. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ countless Madani pearls of knowledge and wisdom would be obtained.

