اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Parables of Those Who Abundantly Recite Quran

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When the day of Thursday approaches, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends His angels, who have papers made of silver and pens made of gold. They write the names of those who recite Salat in abundance on Thursday and during Friday night [which begins after sunset on Thursday]. (Al-Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 1, pp. 184, Hadees 688)

یا نبی! تجھ پہ لاکھوں دُرُود و سلام اس پہ ہے ناز مجھ کو ہُوں تیرا غلام

اپنی رحمت سے تُو شاہِ خَیرُ الاَنام مجھ سے عاصی کا بھی ناز بردار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The Holy Quran is the unique Word of that Great Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is All Alone worthy of worship, All Alone Creator and the Real Owner of the entire universe. Every goodness of the world and the Hereafter is in His providence in a real sense. He عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed His this Word upon the chief of Rusul the Prophet of mankind, the Peace of our heart and mind, the most Generous and Kind صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم so that through it he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would call people to believe in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and follow the true religion. It is the sacred and blessed Word which is worship if it is seen, recited, listened and touched. By reciting the Holy Quran abundantly with extreme love and devotion our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would get lots of mercy and blessings. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable regarding this:

It is said about Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Isma`eel Bukhari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that despite being busy a lot the pleasure and delight of his worship was something to be followed. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had great love for the recitation of the Holy Quran. In the nights of sacred Ramadan during Taraweeh he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite 10 parts in Nawafil and would complete the Holy Quran in the third night. Further, people would gather around him in the first night of blessed Ramadan, and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite the Holy Quran in front of them. (Irshad-us-Saari, vol. 1, pp. 53)

His love for the Holy Quran can be judged by this parable as well that his Kaatib Muhammad Bin Abi Haatim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that once he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was invited by some of his pupils, so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went there. When the time of Zuhr Salah came, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه offered Salah with people, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started offering Nawafil. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed a very long Qiyam. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Salah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to some of his companions raising one of the corners of his Qamees (a long loose shirt, worn by South Asian people): Look, what is there inside my Qamees? They saw that there was a (fatal animal) who had stung him at 16 to 17 places, causing his body to swell. The sign of stings was very clear. People said: Huzoor! Why didn’t you stop offering Salah, when this fatal animal stung you first time? It was replied: I started a Surah, I wished to complete it (then I would perform Salam). (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 2, pp. 13)

اِلٰہی خوب دیدے شوق قرآں کی تلاوت کا

شَرَف دے گنبدِ خضرٰی کے سائے میں شہادت کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would love the recitation of the Holy Quran so deeply that if they had any trouble or pain during the recitation of the Holy Quran, they would not bear to abandon the recitation of the Holy Quran, but rather would like this thing that their maximum time be spent in the recitation of the Holy Quran. Surely, the recitation of the Holy Quran has countless mercy and blessings. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Recite the Holy Quran because on the Judgement Day it will come as an intercessor for its Ashab (reciters).

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 403, Hadees 252)

Therefore, we should also recite the Holy Quran as much as possible. This habit can only be formed when we develop the love for the Holy Quran and the significance of its recitation in our hearts. The Holy Quran is a great and matchless book. The Holy Quran is the clear evidence of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His revealed Noor. All the humans and jinns all together cannot bring any piece of work like the Holy Quran. The Holy Quran is Siraat-e-Mustaqeem and does not have any kind of crookedness, but rather it is extremely moderate and the safe Book, containing abundant advantages for bondmen, whose responsibility of protection Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has taken Himself.

The Holy Quran contains the knowledge regarding the predecessors and successors all. The Holy Quran is guidance, mercy, good news, advice and the source of healing for Muslims. The Holy Quran is an extremely impressive and effective book which after being heard the heart of Allah-fearing people tremble and they bewail after listening to the blessed verses that contain the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: When my respectable father Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would recite the Holy Quran,

he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not have any control on his tears, that is, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would weep bitterly. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 493, Hadees 806)

ہر روز میں قرآن پڑھوں کاش! خدایا

الله! تِلاوت میں مِرے دِل کو لگا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that once leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ recited the following verses:

اِنَّ عَذَ ابَ رَبِّکَ لَوَاقِعٌ ۙ﴿۷﴾ مَّا لَہٗ مِنۡ دَافِعٍ ۙ﴿۸﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed your Lord’s punishment will surely take place. No one can avert it.

(Part 27, Surah At-Toor, verse 7-8)

Due to being overcome with fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became so much emotional that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ started suffocating and then remained in this state almost for 20 days. (Faizan-e-Farooq-e-A’zam, vol. 1, pp. 151)

تیرے ڈَر سے سدا تھر تھراؤں خوف سے تیرے آنسو بہاؤں

کیف ایسا دے، ایسی ادا کی میرے مولٰی تُو خیرات دیدے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Zuraarah Bin Abi Awfee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an extremely pious, worshipping and Allah-fearing practicing scholar. After reciting the verses of admonition and torment at the time of reciting the Holy Quran he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would shiver, or rather sometimes he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would become unconscious due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One day, as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the following verses in Fajr Salah:

فَاِذَا نُقِرَ فِی النَّاقُوۡرِ ۙ﴿۸﴾ فَذٰ لِکَ یَوۡمَئِذٍ یَّوۡ مٌ عَسِیۡرٌ ۙ﴿۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So when the Trumpet will be blown. So that day will be a Tough Day. (Part 29, Surah Al-Muddassir, verse 8-9)

he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was overcome with the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so much that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell over, trembling and then passed away.

(Awliya Rijaal-ul-Hadees, pp. 123)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would recite the Holy Quran with extreme humility and self-mortification and would bewail a lot while pondering over its meaning. Therefore, at the time of recitation we should also try to weep when pondering over its meaning. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Quran was revealed with sorrow, therefore, when you recite it, reveal your sorrow.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 166, Hadees 2902)

The way to create the state of sorrow is this that we should remember the warnings (admonitory parables) mentioned in the Holy Quran and admonitions (i.e. the acts for which promise of punishment has been made). We then should pay attention to the negligence for the acts Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded to

perform and for the acts which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forbidden to perform so that it can become obvious as to what extent we have acted upon the commandments. Besides this we should imagine the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the disgrace of the Day of Judgement keeping in mind that today we are busy committing sins day and night by hiding ourselves from people, but if tomorrow on the Judgement Day my sins get disclosed, so how terribly we will feel ashamed. If we recite the Holy Quran with such careful consideration, so اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the state of sorrow will be developed and perhaps tears may fall from our eyes and our heart may become restless for the concern about the Hereafter.

عطا کر مجھے ایسی رِقّت خدایا

کروں روتے روتے تلاوت خدایا

Dear Islamic brothers! Acting upon the manner of our pious predecessors we should also recite the Holy Quran more and more. We should also try to act upon the commandments mentioned in it. In verse 29 of Surah Al-Faatir, part 22, referring to the excellence of those who recite the Holy Quran, offer Salah following His commandment, pay Zakah on time and give Sadaqah Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّ الَّذِیۡنَ یَتۡلُوۡنَ کِتٰبَ اللّٰہِ وَ اَقَامُوا الصَّلٰوۃَ وَ اَنۡفَقُوۡا مِمَّا رَزَقۡنٰہُمۡ سِرًّا وَّ عَلَانِیَۃً یَّرۡجُوۡ نَ تِجَا رَۃً لَّنۡ تَبُوۡرَ ﴿ۙ۲۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed those who read the Book of Allah, and keep the prayer established, and spend from what We have bestowed upon them in secret and publicly, are hopeful of a trade in which there is never a loss. (Part 22, Surah Al-Faatir, verse 29)

Regarding this blessed verse in Tafseer Baghawi, it has been mentioned that ‘ تِجَارَةً ’ means the reward for which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has promised. Surely, it has no loss, that is, its reward will neither be invalid nor be destroyed.

(Tafseer Baghawi, vol. 3, pp. 492)

It means Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is giving good news of great reward to those who offer Salah, give Sadaqah and charity and recite the Holy Quran. Remember! We can get the reward of reciting the Holy Quran only when we recite it with correct pronunciation. Further, instead of reciting the Holy Quran lazily and heedlessly we should recite it with sweet voice, ease of mind and careful consideration.

Sayyiduna ‘Ubaydah Mulayki رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: O the people of Quran! Do not make Quran a Takyah (i.e. do not become lazy and heedless) and recite it in the day and during the night as it should be recited and spread it and recite it with beautiful voice and do not get a wage in return and ponder over whatever is in it so that you may attain success.

(It has been mentioned in another narration): Do not hurry in its reward because its reward is huge. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 350-351, Hadees 2007)

It has been stated in another blessed Hadees that the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The most excellent worship of my Ummah is recitation of the Holy Quran.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has bestowed a Madani In’aam upon us in order to make the recitation of the Holy Quran our daily routine and to develop its love in the heart: ‘Today, have you had the privilege to either recite or listen to at least 3 verses from Kanz-ul-Iman (with translation and commentary)?

So we should form a habit of reciting the Holy Quran daily from Kanz-ul-Iman / Tafseer Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan / Noor-ul-‘Irfan / Siraat-ul-Jinaan with translation and commentary with deep and careful consideration. In this way, in addition to acting upon the Madani In’aam, we will also be able to attain lots of goodness and blessings of reciting the Holy Quran. It will also develop the passion for practice, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

کنز الایمان اے خدا میں کاش روزانہ پڑھوں

پڑھ کے تفسیر اس کی پھر اس پر عمل کرتا رہوں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would recite the Holy Quran with great pleasure and delight. In this regard, let’s listen to more faith-refreshing parables of these righteous personages.

Sayyiduna Shaykh Bahauddeen Zakariyya Multani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had extraordinary interest and enthusiasm for the recitation of the Holy Quran. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite one Holy Quran every night.

(Tazkirah Hadrat Bahauddeen Zakariyya Multani, pp. 76)

One night, Sayyiduna Shaykh Bahauddeen Zakariyya Multani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said to his friends: Is there a person amongst you who can offer two Rak’aat tonight and recite one complete Quran in one Rak’at. No one from the attendees had this courage. Shaykh Bahauddeen Zakariyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood himself and started two Rak’aat Salah. In the first Rak’at, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the whole Quran and further 4 parts and then recited Surah Al-Ikhlas in the second Rak’at and completed the Salah. (Fawa`id-ul-Fuwaad - Translated, pp. 62)

It was the routine of Sayyiduna Shaykh Bahauddeen Zakariyya رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would start the Holy Quran after Tahajjud Salah and would complete it prior to Fajr Salah. (Shan-e-Awliya, pp. 252)

Similarly, Sayyiduna Hasan Karabeesi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I spent many nights with Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . I saw that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would offer Salah one-third of the night and would not recite more than 50 verses. If he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had recited more, even then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not recite 100 verses. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite the verse of mercy, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for himself and for all the true believers to

remain obedient. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would recite the verse of torment, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would ask for protection from it and would make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for his and all true believers’ salvation.

(Tareekh Baghdad, Raqm 454; Muhammad Bin Idrees Ash-Shaafi’i, vol. 2, pp. 61)

Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Sa’eed Qattaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also a devotee of Quran. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to complete one Quran between Maghrib and ‘Isha. Yahya Bin Ma’een رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Sayyiduna Yahya Qattaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه performed Qiyam for 20 years. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to complete one Quran every night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not abandon going to Masjid at the time of Zawaal for 40 years and never missed his Jama’at. ‘Ali Bin ‘Abdullah has said: We were present with Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Sa’eed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked a person to recite the Holy Quran. He started reciting Surah Ad-Dukhaan. When he started reciting the following verse:

اِنَّ یَوۡمَ الۡفَصۡلِ مِیۡقَا تُہُمۡ اَجۡمَعِیۡنَ ﴿ۙ۴۰﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the Day of Decision is the appointment for all of them. (Part 25, Surah Ad-Dukhaan, verse 40)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fell over and started losing consciousness. His chest rose from the floor and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started rolling and tossing restlessly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then struck against the door, causing injury to his back and started bleeding. When the females of the house started crying we came running and stopped when we reached the door. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then slowly regained consciousness. We entered the house and found him repeating the same verse. ‘Ali Bin ‘Abdullah has said: The injury he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received did not heal and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away. (Saffa-tus-Safwah, vol. 2, pp. 247)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on him and forgive us without any accountability for his sake!

تِرے خوف سے تیرے ڈَر سے ہمیشہ میں تھر تھر رہوں کانپتا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been mentioned in this parable that Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Sa’eed Qattaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to recite a complete Quran between Maghrib and ‘Isha. Perhaps Satan may put this evil thought in someone’s mind that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The person who recites a Quran in less than 3 nights, he has not understood.’

(Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 79, Hadees 1394)

Then how could these personages recite the Quran in such a short period of time? Talking about the meaning of this blessed Hadees, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The person who always completes a Quran in less than three days, he, due to haste in recitation, neither can understand the words of Quran properly, nor can ponder over its apparent meaning.

(He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then said) Remember! It is stated for ordinary Muslims that if they recite the Holy Quran in a hurry, tongue gets folded, words are not properly pronounced. For the righteous people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commandment is different. Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself used to recite 5 and sometimes 6 parts of the Holy Quran in a single Rak’at of Tahajjud.

§ Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ recited the complete Quran in one night.

§ Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلٰى نَبِيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام would finish the blessed Zaboor in a few minutes.

§ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم would recite the complete Quran before putting a bridle (a set of leather bands put around a horse’s head and used to control its movement) on a horse.

§ The author of the book Mirqat said that Shaykh Musa Sadwaani was one of the companions of Shaykh Abu Madyan. He would recite the complete Quran 70,000 times in one day and night. Once he after kissing Sang-e-Aswad in Ka’bah Mu’azzamah reached the door of Ka’bah and recited the complete Quran. People heard each and every word.

Therefore, due to this Hadees, neither can the current Shabeenas be called Haraam, nor objection can be raised against Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who would recite the whole Quran in one day and night. It has been stated for general Muslims because they cannot recite the Holy Quran correctly if they recite so quickly. Regarding the recitation of the complete Quran the manners of general saints have been different. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 270)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The purpose of reciting the Holy Quran abundantly is not this that we recite the Holy Quran hastily with wrong pronunciation and instead of earning Sawab (reward) start committing sins. One can get the excellence of the recitation of the Holy Quran and receives mercy only on the condition when he recites the Holy Quran with correct Makharij (places of articulation).

In our society, people pay high fees for receiving modern worldly education, doing English language courses, computer courses and for different other courses in the concerned institutions, but they do not have time to learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation free of charge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, one of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah for spreading the education of Quran under Dawat-e-Islami is also Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults). What is Madrasa-tul- Madinah (for adults)? How can admission be gained in it? How much is the fee? How long does one have to study? Let’s listen to something about it.

Usually after Salat-ul-‘Isha thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah (adults) are arranged for approximately 63 minutes in different places and Masajid etc. In these Madaris-ul-Madinah (for adults) adult Islamic brothers learn the Holy Quran with correct Makharij with correct pronunciation and memorize Du’as. They also correct their Salahs and learn Sunnahs free of charge. No admission form has to be submitted in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults), nor does it have any fee.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Quranic education is provided free of charge. The fortunate devotees of Rasool who study in Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults) have the privilege of taking part in different Madani activities besides getting the education of Quran. For example, they attend weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarahs, travel with Madani Qafilahs etc. Thousands of Madaris namely, Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults) are arranged in many houses of different countries in which Islamic sisters receive free education of the Holy Quran, Salah and Sunnah and memorize Du’as.

عطا ہو شوق مَولٰی مدرَسے میں آنے جانے کا

خدایا ذوق دے قرآن پڑھنے اور پڑھانے کا

Dear Islamic brothers! By virtue of the blessings of Madrasa-tul-Madinah (adults) not only do Islamic brothers learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation, but many people also get the opportunity to repent of their sinful lives. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable:

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi has stated: Which sins of mine should I mention! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, not offering Salah, playing computer games, watching obscene programmes on television every day, lying and even stealing were some of the sins I used to commit fearlessly.

Luckily, in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1421 AH (2000), I was blessed with the privilege of taking part in the collective I’tikaf with some Rasool’s devotees of Dawat-e-Islami in Jami’ Masjid Aaminah, situated in Shakeel Garden, Aukhai

complex, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. After the collective I’tikaf, I joined the Madrasa-tul-Madinah that was held on the second floor of Aaminah Masjid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I began to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami which was held in Faizan-e-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my efforts, a Madani atmosphere has been created in my home. I play the cassettes of Sunnah-Inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah at home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have memorised the entire Holy Quran and I’m currently doing Dars-e-Nizami in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. I also teach in Madrasa-tul-Madinah and I am trying to spread the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami under the guidance of the Nigran of my Zayli Mushawarat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the incidents of those who abundantly recite the Holy Quran and virtues of reciting the Holy Quran. Remember! Persuasion of reciting the Holy Quran does not mean this that we should become occupied with the recitation of the Holy Quran day and night by leaving Faraaid and Wajibat and all other means of livelihood and remain totally heedless of the rights of people which are compulsory for us. A person’s mother and father, sister and brother, children and wife even his own self and his Nafs have rights upon him. Therefore, after offering Faraaid and Wajibat we should also specify a time for reciting the Holy Quran. Due to this, we will be able to fulfil the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ easily and will not become heedless in the matters of the rights of people. If we do not violate the rights of people, then we should get into the habit of offering Nawafil abundantly, reciting the Holy Quran and observing Nafl fasts as they have great blessings.

Mentioning the worldly and Hereafter advantages of fasts for persuasion, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: Besides Fard fasts one should form the habit of Nafl fasts as well as it has countless religious (Islamic) and worldly advantages. There is so much reward in it that one feels like fasting abundantly. It has further religious (Islamic) benefits that include protection of faith, salvation from Hell and the attainment of

Paradise. As for the worldly benefits, they include saving of time and money during the day (the time and money spent on eating and drinking), a healthy digestive system, protection from many illnesses and, above all, the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Faizan-e-Ramadan, pp. 1333)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! 6 Nafl fasts are observed in the month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram. Great virtues of these fasts have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. For persuasion, let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, containing the excellence of six fasts:

1. The person who observes the fasts of Ramadan then 6 days in Shawwal, so he gets out of sins as he is born from the womb of mother today.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 5102)

2. Whoever observes fasts in Ramadan and then observes six fasts in Shawwal, it is as if he has observed fasts for his entire life.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 592, Hadees 1164)

3. The one fasting six days after Eid-ul-Fitr (in Shawwal) has fasted the entire year because whoever brings one good deed will get ten.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 333, Hadees 1715)

Khaleel-e- Millat, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Khaleel Khan Qaadiri Barakati رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated: Though there is no harm if somebody observes these fasts consecutively after Eid-ul-Fitr, it is better to observe them separately, i.e. one after Eid-ul-Fitr, then two in every week. If it takes the whole month to have these six fasts, it seems even more appropriate.

(Sunni Bahashti Zaywar, pp. 347)

In other words, one can observe six fasts whenever he wants in the whole month of Shawwal except the day of Eid-ul-Fitr.

Dear Islamic brothers! Make intention that we will also try to observe these 6 fasts at our continence in this month of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The Islamic brothers, who observe Nafl fasts, have been categorized as per organization:

§ Excellent: The one who observes ‘Saum-e-Dawoodi’ [the fast observed by Prophet Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ], it means observing a fast every alternate day. Moreover, observing at least 15 fasts in a month at his convenience or observing fasts throughout the year except on the five prohibited days, that person will also attain an ‘Excellent’ position.

(It is Makruh Tahreemi to observe a fast on Eid-ul-Fitr, and 10, 11, 12, 13 of Zul-Hijja-til-Haraam.) (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 391)

§ Good: One observing fast every blessed Monday and Thursday will attain a ‘good’ position. (Observing fasts on Monday and Thursday is a Sunnah. However, one observing seven fasts in a Madani month at his convenience will also be organizationally deemed to have attained a ‘good’ position.)

§ Average: One observing fasts every blessed Monday or, due to some compulsion, on the weekly holiday will be attaining an ‘average’ position. (That way, he will be observing four or five fasts in a month.)

Study page 1419 of the book Faizan-e-Sunnat [Blessings of Sunnah], volume 1, chapter Faizan-e-Ramadan [Blessings of Ramadan] for gaining further information.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also spend our life by offering Faraaid along with offering Nawafil and reciting the Holy Quran abundantly, but unfortunately, nowadays majority of Muslims are seen far from the recitation of the Holy Quran. There was a time when the voice of the recitation of the Holy Quran

would come from every house early in the morning after Fajr Salah. It also stimulated children, but now unfortunately neither we see the yearning for Salah, nor the recitation of the Holy Quran, but rather now the condition is this that some elder members of the family get up after Fajr time has passed and some get up when the day has broken.

Further, instead of doing something good they read first of all a newspaper or watch a news channel. If they do not see, so they do not see the Holy Quran after opening it. Following in the footsteps of the elders, our new generation is also getting away from these righteous deeds. That’s why nowadays majority of young people not only waste their time through mobile phones and social media, but also through messages till late night and other useless things. Instead of being sad because of missing Fajr Salah and being deprived of reciting the Holy Quran due to getting up late they first of all see their mobile phones to see if there is any message.

The Holy Quran is the beautiful book that is full of blessings and mercy, revealed for our guidance and instruction. Its seeing, touching in Wudu and recitation all bring about reward. Alas! We are in such a state that we start feeling bored and yawning a lot, that is, we become lazy in the gathering in which things are discussed related to the Holy Quran. Have we ever pondered over its reason? The reason for it is this that our heart has become seriously polluted with the filth of impiety and sins. If our heart were clean, we would enjoy the recitation and listening of the Holy Quran. I wish the era could return in which Muslims would become habitual of loving the Holy Quran, reciting it abundantly and acting upon its commandments.

Talking about the practices of the earlier Muslims Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw 70 Badri blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . They used to avoid the Halal things of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (due to piety and fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) so much as you do not prevent yourself from Haraam things. You feel happy so much in prosperity, and they used to feel happier than you in trials. If you had seen them, you would have said that they were mad and if they had seen best people amongst you, they would have said, ‘They have no share (in the

Hereafter).’ If they had seen bad people of yours, they would have said, ‘They do not believe in the Day of Accountability.’ If anyone of them had been presented with Halal things, they would have refused to accept them by saying, ‘I am afraid that my heart would spoil (whereas you do not care even a bit in getting Haraam things.)’ (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 3, pp. 467)

مجھ کو روزانہ تلاوت کی بھی تُو توفیق دے

قاریِ قرآں بنا اور خادمِ قرآں بنا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Following in the footsteps of our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی we should also spend our life by carrying out the commandments of the Holy Quran. How lucky we are! If we recite the Holy Quran keeping in mind its apparent and hidden manners, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will get its lots of goodness in the world and the Hereafter both. Let’s listen to the apparent manners of reciting the Holy Quran:

§ A reciter should recite the Holy Quran either by sitting or standing with respect and convenience bending his head facing Qiblah in Wudu.

§ Avoid sitting cross-legged and leaning against something unnecessarily, but rather sit as a student sits in front of his teacher.

§ The best state of reciting the Holy Quran is this that it should be recited by standing during Salah in Masjid.

Leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: One who recites the Holy Quran by standing during Salah, for him there are 100 virtues for every letter and the one who recites the Holy Quran by sitting, for him there are 50 virtues for every letter and the one

who recites the Holy Quran apart from Salah in Wudu, for him there are 25 virtues. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 366)

§ Another manner of reciting Quran is to recite it slowly and with lots of pauses. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 368)

§ Further, it should be recited melodiously with beautiful voice.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded to recite the Holy Quran with so much sweet voice, as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not commanded to do any other thing. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 397, Hadees 792)

It should also be remembered! Letters should not be pronounced so long that their pronunciation gets changed or the verse of Quran gets changed. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 371)

§ The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Weep when reciting the Holy Quran. If you are unable to weep, make a weeping face.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 129, Hadees 1337)

§ Qira`at should be done in so much voice that the reciter can listen to it himself because Qira`at is the name of it that letters should be pronounced clearly in loud voice. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 370)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless us with the privilege to recite the Holy Quran daily keeping in mind these apparent manners!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! There are some hidden manners of reciting the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to some of them:

§ The Holy Quran should be recited with the attention of the heart, that is, Holy Quran should be recited after dispelling all the thoughts which are created in the heart. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 374)

§ As the respect of the apparent cover of Quran and its pages is this that it should not be touched without Taharat (purity), similarly the demand of hidden Anwaar-o-Tajalliyat (luminosity and refulgence) of the Holy Quran is this that heart should also be purified from every type of impurity so that those Tajalliyat (refulgence) may enter in it.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 373)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Here it is to be paid special attention that when the cover of the Holy Quran and its pages etc. get old or martyred, so its protection is also our responsibility. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, amongst 103 departments of Dawat-e-Islami one department is ‘Majlis Protection of Sacred Pages’. This department has been established in order to protect sacred pages, to not destroy its sanctity and to protect it from disrespect. Boxes are installed at different places for the protection of sacred pages in cooperation with the people related to different fields of life (Islamic scholars, Aimmah, Masjid committees, traders, shopkeepers, etc.). Sacred pages are buried, drowned in water or protected as per Shar’i and organizational rules given by the Majlis.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

Dear Islamic brothers! It is also amongst the hidden manners of the Holy Quran that

§ If someone hears the commandment of doing something and forbidding from something in any verse of the Holy Quran so it should be thought

§ that it is being said to him. Similarly, he should seek admonition and advice from the parables of previous Ummahs and the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 378)

§ Further, the reciter should accept the effect of the context of blessed verses. For example, he should read about the circumstances of deniers, that is, ‘Aad and Samood etc. and the torment that was inflicted upon them so that he can develop the fear of Allah’s torment and His Supremacy and Power. When he reads about Paradise and its blessings, he should make Du’a for attaining them. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 855)

§ It is also amongst the hidden manners of reciting Quran that one should have deep thought while reciting the Holy Quran, especially, its meanings and sense should be deeply thought over. Leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: There is no goodness in the worship which has no understanding and there is no goodness in the Qira’at (recitation of the Qur’an with correct pronunciation and cadence) which has no careful consideration. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 1, pp. 374)

Dear Islamic brothers! Get into the habit of listening or reading out or reading individually the translation and commentary of 3 verses from the commentary namely, Siraat-ul-Jinaan, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, daily after Fajr Salah in the Madani Halqahs and earn the treasure of reward. Let’s listen to a few distinctive qualities of the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinaan:

1. In the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinaan, two translations of every verse have been included, one from Kanz-ul-Iman of Sayyidi A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and the second is in simple Urdu known as Kanz-ul-‘Irfan which is mostly taken from Kanz-ul-Iman .

In the commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinaan, content has been taken from the Quranic commentaries and books of authentic Islamic scholars written on other Islamic branches of knowledge, in particular, a large number of

1. books which were written by Sayyidi A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and presented them in a simple manner.

2. The commentary of Siraat-ul-Jinaan has been greatly influenced by the commentaries called Khaza`in-ul-Irfan and Noor-ul-‘Irfan . Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan has been written by a Khalifah (successor) of A’la Hadrat, Sadr-ul-Afadil, Sayyid, Haafiz Mufti Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and Noor-ul-‘Irfan has been written by his Khalifah (successor), a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

3. Siraat-ul-Jinaan is not too long nor too short, it is medium but comprehensive.

4. As far as possible an easy method has been adopted in Siraat-ul-Jinaan so that ordinary Islamic brothers can also gain benefit from it.

5. For the rectification of deeds, the discussion and curses of social evils have been mentioned in Siraat-ul-Jinaan.

6. Siraat-ul-Jinaan contains motivation towards attaining the gifts of Jannah and threat from the torments of Hell.

7. In Siraat-ul-Jinaan, factors related to spiritual diseases have been discussed in great detail.

8. Siraat-ul-Jinaan also contains reformative content about behaving well towards parents, relatives, orphans, neighbours etc. and also treating the relatives well.

9. In Siraat-ul-Jinaan, the beliefs and practices of the Ahl-e-Sunnah have been explained with proofs.

10. In Siraat-ul-Jinaan, according to the occasion, the life history and the parables of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and the blessed saints have been mentioned.

Siraat-ul-Jinaan contains colourful, new and fragrant Madani pearls obtained from the verses. You also make intention to study at least 3 verses with translation and commentary from Siraat-ul-Jinaan and act

1. upon the teachings of the Holy Quran besides persuading other Islamic brothers to do so.

یہی ہے آرزو تعلیم قرآن عام ہوجائے

ہر اک پرچم سے اونچا پرچمِ اسلام ہوجائے

[[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in today’s speech, we have had the privilege of listening to the faith-refreshing parables of the pious predecessors who used to recite the Holy Quran abundantly. Further, we have also heard about the virtues of observing 6 fasts in the month of Shawwal and the Madani pearls of Nafl fasts. We have also got important Madani pearls about the apparent and hidden manners of reciting the Holy Quran. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to recite the Holy Quran a lot keeping in mind the apparent and hidden manners of the Holy Quran and also enable us to attain its mercy and blessings!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

میں ادب قرآن کا ہر حال میں کرتا رہوں

ہر گھڑی اے میرے مولٰی تجھ سے میں ڈرتا رہوں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls of clothes:

1. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The veil between the eyes of the jinn and the Satr (parts of the body that must be concealed) of people is to recite بِسـۡمِ اللّٰه when anyone is about to take off his clothes.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 2, pp. 59, Hadees 2504)

A renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti A h mad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘As a wall or a curtain serves as a barrier to the sight of people, this Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will serve as a barrier to the sight of jinns, preventing them from seeing a person’s private parts.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 268)

2. Despite having the means to wear good clothing, if a person avoids them due to humility, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make him wear the attire of Karamah [a heavenly dress].’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 326, Hadees 4778)

3. Clothing must be obtained from H alal earnings. No S alah, whether Fard or Nafl, is accepted if offered in the clothing obtained from H araam earnings. (Kashf-ul-Iltibas fis-Tihbab-il-Libas, pp. 36)

4. Start wearing clothes from the right side. For example, when wearing your upper garment, put your right arm into the right sleeve first and then your left arm into the left sleeve. (Ibid)

5. In the same way, when putting on the lower garment, put your right foot into the right side first and then the left foot into the left side. When taking clothes off, do the opposite, i.e. start from the left side.

1. It is stated on page 409 of the 3 rd volume of the 1197-page book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: It is a Sunnah that the length of the Kurta (upper garment) be up to half of the shin, and that of the sleeve be up to the fingertips at the most, with its width of one hand-span.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

2. It is a Sunnah for males to keep the bottom of their trousers/Tahband above the ankles. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 94)

3. Men should wear only masculine clothing and women should wear only feminine clothing. Take the same care when dressing small children.

4. Wearing clothes showing arrogance is forbidden. Whether one has become arrogant or not can be determined by pondering over one’s feelings. If one has the same state after wearing the clothes he had before wearing, it indicates that he has not become arrogant. If the previous state does not exist anymore, this shows he has become arrogant. Therefore, he should refrain from wearing such clothes because arrogance is a very evil trait. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 409; Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 579)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

