اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of Halal and Warnings against Haraam

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Recitation of Salat upon me is Noor [light] on the bridge of Siraat. Whoever recites Salat upon me 80 times on Friday, his sins of 80 years will be forgiven.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 2, pp. 408, Hadees 3814)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have been commanded to consume Halal and avoid Haraam at many places in the Holy Quran and blessed Ahadees. In today’s Bayan [speech], let’s have the privilege of listening to the Bayan about the virtues of consuming Halal and disadvantages of consuming Haraam.

Gave the price of cloths as Sadaqah

The leader of millions of Hanafis, Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was engaged in trade to earn a Halal livelihood. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a prominent cloth trader and would follow Islamic principles. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even as a trader would do good to Muslims and do them favours.

Sayyiduna Hafs Bin ‘Abdur Rahman رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam Abu Hanifah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would do trade with me and while sending me goods he would tell me, ‘O Hafs! Such and such cloth has some defect, mention it to the buyer when you sell it.’ Once Sayyiduna Hafs رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sold the goods of trade but forgot to tell about the defect when selling it. When Sayyiduna Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه learnt about it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave the amount of the entire cloth as Sadaqah. (Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 13, pp. 356)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard how careful and cautious Imam-e-A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was about earning a Halal livelihood and refraining from the morsel of Haraam and doubtful things. Undoubtedly, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that Haraam and doubtful things can bring no blessing at all, whereas blessings lie completely in Halal and pure things. Perhaps, for this reason he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not like to keep the earnings from the sold cloth and donated all of them in the path of Allah.

The above-mentioned parable contains admonitory Madani pearls for those whose purpose of life is to only accumulate wealth and increase bank balance. Sometimes, these people driven by pure greed for wealth commit Haraam deeds while having financial dealings, causing damage not only to themselves but also to their family members. Remember! The more wealth one possesses in the world, the greater accountability he will face in the Hereafter. We, therefore, should always avoid Haraam things and try to earn a Halal and pure livelihood and also persuade others to do the same so that we can also attain the excellence of Halal.

Mentioning the excellence of Halal, Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that some pious predecessors have

said: ‘When a Muslim eats the first morsel of Halal food, his previous sins are forgiven. And the person who stands at a place of disgrace in search of Halal sustenance, his sins fall like the leaves of a tree. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 116)

Dear Islamic brothers! In Islam, how important it is to earn pure and Halal livelihood can be realized by pondering over the fact that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given clear commandments in the Holy Quran about consuming a Halal and pure sustenance:

وَ كُلُوْا مِمَّا رَزَقَكُمُ اللّٰهُ حَلٰلًا طَیِّبًا۪-وَّ اتَّقُوا اللّٰهَ الَّذِیْۤ اَنْتُمْ بِهٖ مُؤْمِنُوْنَ(۸۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Eat from the sustenance which Allah has given to you, the lawful and the pure – and fear Allah in Whom you believe.

(Part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 88)

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Ayah 168 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا النَّاسُ كُلُوْا مِمَّا فِی الْاَرْضِ حَلٰلًا طَیِّبًا ﳲ وَّ لَا تَتَّبِعُوْا خُطُوٰتِ الشَّیْطٰنِؕ-اِنَّهٗ لَكُمْ عَدُوٌّ مُّبِیْنٌ(۱۶۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O mankind! Eat from what is lawful and pure in the earth; and do not follow the footsteps of the devil; undoubtedly he is your open enemy.

What is meant by Halal and pure sustenance?

It is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: Halal and pure means that thing which is Halal itself such as goat meat, vegetables and lentils etc., and which we obtain through permissible means, that is, it should not be obtained by means of theft, bribery, robbery, etc. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, part 2, Al-Baqarah)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of Halal food

Sayyiduna Yahya Bin Mu’aaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Obedience is hidden in the treasure of Allah Almighty and Du’a is its key and Halal food is the teeth of the key. If the key has no teeth, the door of the treasure will not be opened. When the treasure is not opened, how can we get to the obedience hidden in it? Therefore, protect your morsel and purify your food so that instead of the darkness of bad deeds the Noor of virtuous deeds appears before you when you die. Continue to stop your body parts from the sin of consuming Haraam so that they can gain the pleasure of everlasting blessings. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

كُلُوْا وَ اشْرَبُوْا هَنِیْٓــٴًـۢا بِمَاۤ اَسْلَفْتُمْ فِی الْاَیَّامِ الْخَالِیَةِ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Eat and drink with pleasure – the reward of what you sent ahead, in the past days. (Part 29, Surah Al-Haqqah, Ayah 24)

And whoever does not refrain from consuming Haraam will eat hot and bitter ‘ تُھوہر ’ [Thooher] fruit after remaining hungry for a long time. It will be very bad and harmful food which will break the heart into pieces and will rip the liver and tear the body, causing unimaginably severe pain.

(Aansu`on ka Darya, pp. 283)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been learnt that Haraam food brings about many evils and Halal food brings about great blessings.

٭ The Muslim who earns Halal sustenance and then feeds Halal to his family leads a peaceful and prosperous life.

٭ Those who earn and eat Halal attain a special status among people.

٭ Those who earn and eat Halal see blessings in their business.

٭ Sins of the one who earns and eats Halal are forgiven and his Du’as are answered.

There are so many virtues of earning and consuming Halal that I like to keep mentioning and listening to it. For persuasion, let’s listen to four blessed Ahadees and also make intention to act upon them:

1. Whoever eats Halal for 40 days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will illuminate his heart and will make the springs of wisdom flow out of his tongue [i.e. he will speak words of wisdom], and [Allah] will guide him in the world and Hereafter. (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 6, pp. 450)

2. Whoever earns Halal wealth and then consumes it himself or wears clothes obtained from these earnings and besides himself, feeds other people (such as his family and other people) and makes them wear (from Halal earnings), then this deed of his is a blessing and purity for him. (Ibn Habbaan, vol. 4, pp. 218, Hadees 4222)

3. One day, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was sitting with his blessed companions: A young man passed by. When the blessed companions saw the young man who was strong, they said: Would that he could spend his youthfulness and power in the path of Allah Almighty! Upon this the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: If this person has come out to search for sustenance for his small children, so he is in the way of Allah Almighty and if this person has come out to search for sustenance for his old parents, so even then he is in the way of Allah Almighty and if he has come out to search for sustenance for protecting himself (from begging people or from consuming Haraam), even then he is in the way of Allah Almighty. However, if he has come out to show off and to have pride, he is in the way of Satan.

4. Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Make Du’a that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ answers my Du’a. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him:

‘ یَا سَعْد! اَطِبْ مَطْعَمَکَ تَکُنْ مُسْتَجَابَ الدَّعْوَۃِ ’ i.e., Purify your food, your Du’as will be answered. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 24, Hadees 6495)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that Halal food is full of blessings. By virtue of eating Halal food, one’s heart is filled with Noor [i.e. light]. By virtue of eating Halal food, one speaks words of wisdom. We have also learnt that whoever goes out in search of sustenance for his wife, children and old parents is in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Just ponder how great virtues and blessings a person receives by earning and eating Halal. But alas!

Some people, under the influence of Nafs and Satan, use Haraam means, consume Haraam or let others consume Haraam despite the availability of easy and Halal sources of livelihood, and make themselves deserving of Hell.

The character of righteous people of Allah Almighty is appreciable regarding earning and consuming Halal sustenance and avoiding Haraam and doubtful things. These blessed people sometimes would travel far and wide in search of Halal sustenance. Further, they did not use to usurp others’ possession, but rather they were very careful. For persuasion, let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable and get Madani pearls from it.

Travel in search of Halal sustenance

On page 223 and 224 of ‘ Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat (part 1), a 410-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is mentioned that Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I once travelled to a city namely ‘Tarsoos’ in search of Halal sustenance. When I reached there, a man approached me and said: I need a person who can guard and look after my grape orchard. Are you ready to look after my orchard on a wage? I replied in the affirmative. I went with that person and began to work in his orchard with great dedication and hard work.

One day, the owner of the orchard along with some of his friends came to the orchard and asked me to bring him some best quality sweet grapes. Having heard this, I brought him a huge quantity of grapes. When the owner ate a grape it was sour. He said to me: O the guard of this orchard! Very sorry to say that you have been working here for a long time but still you have not been able to recognise sweet and sour grapes, though, you would be eating lots of grapes from here all day and night. I said to the owner of the orchard: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not eaten even a single grape from this orchard of yours to date, because I have been here only for looking after this orchard, that’s why, I could not identify which are sweet and which ones are sour. Having heard this, the owner said to his friends: Could there be anything stranger than this that a person stays for a long time in an orchard so honestly that he does not eat even a single grape from it? This person seems abstinent like Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

(The owner of this orchard did not know that this person is Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه). Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I started doing my work and the owner of the orchard left from there.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayat, part 1, pp. 223-224)

Dear Islamic brothers! The great effort of eating Halal, honesty and abstinence of Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was truly commendable! If he had wanted, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would have got his desired food easily by making Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه knew that dignity lies in hard work. His trustworthiness and abstinence were truly matchless. Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked after the entire orchard; if he had wanted, he could have relished the opportunity to eat bunches of grapes from the orchard, but he was not one of those who do not care about Halal and Haraam and who betray the trust and who focus their attention on the wealth of others. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was fully aware of the significance and excellence of Halal food.

50 Madani pearls of earning Halal sustenance

Dear Islamic brothers! For gaining the blessings of Halal food, refraining from Haraam sustenance and for knowing Halal means of earning sustenance, read a brief but important piece of writing namely ‘ 50 Madani Pearls of Earning Halal Sustenance ’ authored by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Studying this booklet is extremely beneficial. This booklet has been written for the goodness of the Ummah; it contains virtues of Halal livelihood, warnings against Haraam livelihood and 50 informative Madani pearls of earning [livelihood] by Halal means. Therefore, buy this priceless booklet today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah in quantity and distribute them. The Islamic brothers who are employees or employers should especially read this booklet. This booklet can be read, downloaded and also printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami - www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! As we are getting away from the blessed era of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we are becoming more and more ignorant. The temporary attraction of wealth and riches has blinded people. In the past, people used to refrain from Haraam and impermissible food immensely. Now they have become so careless and fearless that م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ they consume Haraam deliberately. Swelling with pride some unwise people even say: Whatever prosperity you see in this splendid home and family of mine is all because of Haraam wealth. At the present time, if we earn our sustenance with honesty, it will be difficult to earn enough with peace. How can we fulfil new demands and desires of our family members on a meagre income? مَعَاذَاللہ

Remember! This is the curse of not following the Islamic principles. About the same era the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A time will come upon people when man will not care at all about how he has earned (wealth) whether by Haraam or by Halal. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Buyoo’, vol. 2, pp. 7, Hadees 2059)

Commenting on the above Hadees, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْه has stated, ‘That is, people will become careless about religion in the last era. They will badly get stuck in the financial worries. They will only care about accumulating and multiplying wealth without distinguishing between Halal and Haraam fearlessly; as is common these days. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 4, pp. 229)

It is stated in another Hadees: A time will come upon people when the religion of a religious person will not remain safe except for the person who runs from one mountain to the other and from one cave to the other (for protecting his religion). At that time, one will not be able to earn a living without displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When faced with this situation, man will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his own wife and children. If there are no wife and children, he will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his parents. If there are no parents, he will suffer destructiveness at the hands of his relatives and neighbours. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! How will it happen?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘They will make him feel ashamed of his little livelihood. At that time, he will go to the places of destructiveness.’

(Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer lil-Bayhaqi, Al-Juz-us-Saani, pp. 183, Hadees 439)

Curse of Haraam wealth

Dear Islamic brothers! On the Day of Judgement, we may fall into disgrace because of the relatives for whom we remain busy earning sustenance day and night. It is indeed our responsibility to fulfil the rights of mother, father, wife, children and other relatives; however, for fulfilling their desires and escaping their taunts, if we keep on accumulating wealth without distinguishing between Halal and Haraam income, do not make their mind to have patience, place trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and remain grateful to Him, feel content with little livelihood in difficult times and do not teach them the difference between Halal and Haraam, then it is quite probable that on the Day of Judgement, these very relatives will make a complaint against us to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we will suffer punishment.

Claim in Divine Court

Sayyiduna Faqih Abul Lays Samarqandi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَـالٰی عَـلَيْـه has stated: It is narrated that amongst a man’s relatives, the closest [relatives] are his wife and children. On the Day of Judgement, the wife and children of a man will humbly say in the court of Allah Almighty: ‘O our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make this person give us our right because he never gave us the Islamic education, and would provide us with Haraam food and we were unaware of it.’ The person would then be beaten so severely for earning Haraam that his flesh would come off his bones.

Then he would be brought to the Scale [i.e. Meezan] where angels would bring his good deeds equivalent to a mountain. Then, one of his family members would come forward and say, ‘I am short of virtuous deeds’ and he will take some of them. Then another person from his family will come forward and say, ‘You made me consume interest money’, and he will also take some of his good deeds. In this way, his family members will take all of his good deeds. Then he would say turning his face towards his wife and children in despair, ‘Alas! Now I have the burden of those sins and acts of cruelty which I committed for you.’ The angels will say, ‘He is the unfortunate person whose family has taken his virtuous deeds and he has entered Hell because of them.’ (Qurra-tul-‘Uyoon, pp. 401)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder! How unfortunate the person who keeps earning Haraam for his children is! On the Judgement Day, his own family members will take all of his good deeds and achieve salvation, leaving him empty-handed. Our society has become so bad that people commit countless and grave sins in business dealings merely to satisfy their greed for wealth. Counterfeit, adulterated foods and defective goods are being sold as original. If the buyer identifies a defect, the seller does not hesitate in even swearing false oaths to assure the buyer that the product is free from defects. Likewise, some people are blindly driven by greed for becoming rich and wealthy, traveling in expensive and luxury cars, becoming famous and acquiring high status, living the life of luxury with all the modern comforts, and owning properties, mills and factories. In doing so, they remain busy

pursuing their passion for having a healthy bank balance, violating others’ rights. They do not care if they need to ruin someone’s family life, violate someone’s rights or even kill someone to satisfy their greed.

Just ponder over the fact that we are extremely careful in our personal matters so that people do not deceive us. If we need to refuel our vehicle, receive large amount of money from someone, purchase a shop, house, piece of land or other goods, have some documents prepared, we verify their authenticity or get their authenticity verified carefully and do not take any step unless we are satisfied. On the other hand, regretfully, people become extremely careless about earning and consuming Halal and Tayyib [i.e. pure] sustenance and refraining from everything that is Haraam and impermissible. Listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the terrible consequences of Haraam food and also make an intention to refrain from Haraam.

1. I swear by the One under Whose Power the life of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is! Undoubtedly, [when] a man puts a Haraam morsel into his stomach, his forty days’ deeds are not accepted; and fire is better for the person who has consumed Haraam and Riba [i.e. interest] to nourish his flesh. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 34, Hadees 6495)

2. When the deceased is placed on the Takht [bier] and raised, his soul moves with convulsive motion and sits on the Takht, and [then] cries out: O my family! Do not let the world play with you as it has played with me. I accumulated Halal and non-Halal Maal [i.e. wealth and possessions] and then left that Maal for others. Its benefit is for them and its harm is for me. Therefore, learn a lesson from whatever I have faced. (At-Tazkirah lil-Qurtubi, pp. 69)

3. The person who buys a cloth with ten dirhams and [if] one dirham out of them is Haraam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will not accept any of his Salahs until any portion of that cloth remains in his use. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 2, pp. 8, Hadees 9260)

4. An angel of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ every day and night proclaims on the roof of Bayt-ul-Muqaddas: Whoever consumes Haraam, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will neither accept any of his Fard nor any Nafl. (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 6, pp. 452)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to the saying of Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Ali Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about the destruction of Haraam livelihood.

Advice of Sayyiduna Imam Ibn-e-Jawzi

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin ‘Ali Jawzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Haraam food is such a fire which melts the fat of contemplation, eliminates the pleasure of Zikr and burns the clothes of true intentions. It is Haraam which breeds the blindness of insight. Therefore, accumulate the Halal wealth and spend it moderately. Protect yourself from Haraam and protect your family members from Haraam too. Do not have the company of the people consuming Haraam and keep refraining from eating their food and do not have the company of the person who has income from Haraam source. If you are true to your abstinence then neither guide anybody towards Haraam as when he will consume it, you will be accountable for it and nor help anybody in acquiring Haraam because a helper [facilitator] is also involved in committing a deed. Remember! It is the Halal food that makes deeds acceptable, and concealing poverty and weeping in seclusion play an important role in the acceptance of deeds and have a very significant part in earning Halal sustenance. (Aansu`on ka Darya, pp. 284)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Some people generally complain that they have been suffering from such-and-such a trouble or disease for a long time. Seeking relief from it, they make Du’a imploringly, recite Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations), offer Salah and observe Sawm punctually, give charity, visit the

shrines of the blessed saints for making Du’a, feed the poor, attend Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, have travelled with Madani Qafilahs several times, have approached almost all peers and faqirs, and have tried their best, but problems continue to increase instead of coming to an end. Some naïve and foolish people also say, ‘We do not know for which sin we are being punished.’

Instead of complaining and criticising, such people should ponder over the causes of Du’a not being answered. It is highly probable that their character is an obstacle in the way of their Du’as being answered. For example, consuming Haraam [sustenance] sometimes becomes the cause of Du’as not being answered, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘Tayyib’ [i.e. Pure] and accepts only what is pure. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has indeed commanded the Mu’mineen [believers] what He has commanded the Rasools. He (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) has stated to Rasools:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الرُّسُلُ كُلُوْا مِنَ الطَّیِّبٰتِ وَ اعْمَلُوْا صَالِحًا ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Noble Rusul, eat good clean things, and do good deeds. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, Ayah 51)

And (has stated to Mu’mineen):

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْا كُلُوْا مِنْ طَیِّبٰتِ مَا رَزَقْنٰكُمْ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who Believe! Eat of the good things We have provided you. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 172)

Then (the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) mentioned a person who makes a long journey with untidy hair and dusty body. He invokes ‘O Lord! O Lord!’ with his hands raised towards the sky, but his food is Haraam, his drink is Haraam, his clothing is Haraam and his nourishment is Haraam. How can his Du’a be answered! (Sahih Muslim, pp. 506, Hadees 65 - 1015) ‘Allamah Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the respected father of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has

stated: One should refrain from Haraam in eating, drinking, dressing and earning, as Du’a of the people is mostly rejected who eat Haraam and commit Haraam deeds. (Fadaail-e-Du’a, pp. 60) Let’s now listen to an admonitory parable in this regard and obtain Madani pearls of admonition.

Cause of unanswered Du’a

Sayyiduna ‘Ubbaad Khawwaas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Once Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام passed by a place and saw that a person was busy making heartfelt Du’a in tears by raising his hands [towards the sky]. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام kept on seeing him and then humbly asked in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: ‘O my Raheem and Kareem Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Why are You not answering the Du’a of this bondman of Yours?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a Wahee [revelation] to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام: ‘O Musa! I will not answer this person’s Du’a even if he cries to death and raises his hands to the extent that they touch the sky.’ Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام humbly asked: ‘My Maula! What is the reason behind it?’ He عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام was responded: ‘He eats Haraam and wears Haraam and there is Haraam wealth in his home.’

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 2, pp. 196)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that a person, who eats Haraam, wears Haraam and keeps Haraam wealth and possessions in his home becomes himself the cause of unanswered Du’a and thus deserves the torment of Hell. Therefore, if we wish our Du’as to be answered and want to remain safe from the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should only get into the habit of eating Halal food and should keep on refraining from everything that is Haraam and impermissible. For example, if someone is unable to meet his living expenses due to low salary, he should get rid of unnecessary expenses rather than using Haraam means for satisfying his greed for wealth.

At times, the household, in-laws or relatives taunt a person about his low salary. On such occasions, it is wise to make up your mind to place your trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by having patience and by being grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ even on a low income. Feeling distress on such occasions, some people lose hope and

start committing the acts of gambling, extortion, Riba [interest], bribery and other Haraam acts. They consume Haraam wealth themselves and also give their household to consume it. In this way, they destroy not only themselves, but also their household.

Therefore, we should not engross ourselves in earning a livelihood and accumulating wealth to such an extent that we become heedless of Islamic upbringing of our family. So, as per need, we should earn a Halal livelihood and earn for sure, but we should bear in mind that it is incumbent [duty] upon the guardians to give Madani Tarbiyyat to his family as per Sunnahs. For this, it is necessary that he should also be associated with a good environment and should have his Madani mind-set, otherwise pinning hope for success is useless.

It is generally observed that parents request to make Du’a for their children in a sad and sympathising manner saying, ‘ Hadrat, make Du’a for my children that they become Salah-offering, irrespective of the fact that he [father] himself misses his Jumu’ah Salah. ‘ Hazrat, make Du’a for my children that they start reciting the Holy Quran ’, irrespective of the fact that he [father] himself only opens the Holy Quran in the blessed month of Ramadan. ‘ Hazrat, make Du’a for my children that they start following the right path and stop watching films, dramas and having bad friendships ’ irrespective of the fact that he [father] himself does not feel any shame while watching movies, dramas and the channels showing immoral and sinful programs with sons and daughters. ‘ Hazrat, make Du’a for my son that he stops having bad friendships ’, irrespective of the fact that he [father] himself wastes his time unhesitatingly in the company of bad friends at the places where sinful activities are rampant.

Dear Islamic brothers! Desire for children being righteous is definitely very good but firstly we have to assess our own character. We have to gain Islamic knowledge and act upon it as well. We have to keep ourselves in touch with Sunni scholars. Sometimes, when a non-Shari act has been carried out, Shar’i guidance is sought about it in order to know whether it was permissible or impermissible. May we make our Madani mind-set to seek Shar’i guidance

before we start a new business, job, etc.! For example, I want to do such-and-such a business, how should it be done as per the requirements of Shari’ah? Is this job Halal and permissible for me or not? There are many types of business or trades in partnership which can be initiated by two or more than two partners. Extra care is required for such type of cases.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Madani Qafilah’ one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to know the method of reforming and giving Madani Tarbiyyat (edification) to family members and to achieve the success in creating Madani environment at home associate yourself with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami and actively take part in 12 Madani activities. One of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is also ‘Madani Qafilah’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani reformation has taken place in the lives of a large number of people by virtue of the blessings of Madani Qafilah. By travelling with a Madani Qafilah one is privileged to have the company of righteous people. By virtue of the blessings of travelling with a Madani Qafilah one is privileged to perform Nafl I’tikaf in the Masjid. By virtue of the blessings of travelling with a Madani Qafilah people who do not offer Salah know the importance of Salahs. By virtue of travelling with a Madani Qafilah one is privileged to learn many Islamic rulings. By virtue of the Madani Qafilah, Zikr and Azkaar, Dars and Bayanaat continue to be delivered in Masajid. By virtue of the Madani Qafilah Masajid are filled with Salah-offering people. How great is to fill Masajid with Salah-offering people! It is stated in a blessed Hadees: When a person makes a Masjid his abode for Zikr and Salah, Allah Almighty is pleased with him as people become pleased when their missing person comes to them. (Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 438, Raqm 800)

Inferior was made superior by Madani environment

Here is a summary of what an Islamic brother has stated: I committed too many sins such as providing VCR-cable, hanging around with loafers in the night, watching two to three movies every single day and attending concerts

all night. One day, fortune smiled on me. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By virtue of the blessing of the constant individual efforts made by an Islamic brother from the Nayabad area of Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, I attended the Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults where I was blessed with the company of devotees of Rasool and was inspired to associate myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political movement for preaching Quran and Sunnah. I am now busy taking part in Madani activities.

Majlis Madani Qafilah

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in more or less 107 departments all over the world. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani Qafilah’. The purpose of this Majlis is to spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, all over the world. The function of this Majlis is to prepare every Islamic brother for a Madani Qafilah of 12 months consecutively once in life, 1 month in every 12 months and 3 days in every month as per the schedule and to make them travel and to make them the ones who present the call towards righteousness .

Under the supervision of this Majlis, countless Madani Qafilahs of devotees of Rasool travel to different countries, cities, villages, etc., spreading Islamic knowledge and Sunnah and presenting the call towards righteousness. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under the supervision of Majlis Madani Qafilah, ‘Dar-us-Sunnah’ have been established at many places. In these ‘Dar-us-Sunnah’, Islamic brothers, who come from distant and nearby areas, gain Tarbiyyat and after gaining Tarbiyyat of Sunnah in the company of devotees of Rasool, spread the call towards righteousness all over the world. May Allah Almighty bless Majlis Madani Qafilah with more progress!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ Dust the bed off properly before sleeping, so that poisonous insects etc. if any, are removed.

٭ Recite this Du’a before sleeping:

اَللّٰھُمَّ بِاسْمِكَ اَمُوْتُ وَ اَحْیٰ

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I die and live (sleep and wake up) by Your name.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 196, Hadees 6325)

٭ Do not sleep after ‘Asr, as there is a fear of losing the intellect. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever sleeps after ‘Asr and loses his intellect, should blame only himself.’

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 4, pp. 678, Hadees 4897)

٭ It is Mustahab [preferable] to nap for a while in the afternoon.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه says, ‘This is probably for those who remain awake at night offering Salah, doing Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, or reading and studying religious books, so that the tiredness caused by staying awake at night can be removed by the midday nap.’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 79)

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-‘Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘Ala Sayyid-is-Sadaat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 14 February 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of sleeping and waking up

٭ It is Makruh [disliked] to sleep in the beginning of the day or between Maghrib and ‘Isha. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

٭ To sleep in the state of purity is Mustahab. First sleep on your right side facing Qiblah with your right hand under the right cheek for some duration, and then on your left side. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

٭ Remember the grave as you go to sleep, as in the grave we will be alone and there will be no one but our deeds.

٭ When going to sleep, busy yourself with the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Keep reciting Tahleel, Tasbih and Tahmeed (i.e. keep reciting (لَاۤ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللّٰہُ) (سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰہِ) and (اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ)) until you fall asleep because a person wakes up in the same state that he falls asleep in, and on the Day of Judgement a person will rise in the same state that he dies in.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

٭ Recite this Du’a upon waking up:

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ الَّذِیْۤ اَحْیَانَا بَعْدَ مَاۤ اَمَاتَنَا وَ اِلَیْہِ النُّشُوْرُ

All praise is to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ who gave us life after death and to Him we will return. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 196, Hadees 6325)

٭ Make a firm intention upon waking up that you will adopt piety and will not cause distress to others. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 376)

٭ When boys and girls are ten years old, they should be made to sleep separately. Even a boy of this age should not sleep with the boys of the same age or with men older than him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 629)

٭ When the husband and wife sleep on the same bed, they should not have a child of ten years old sleep with them. When a boy reaches an age where he can feel lust, the rulings for men will apply to him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 630)

٭ Perform Miswak upon waking up.

٭ Offer Tahajjud after waking up in the night as it is a great blessing to do so. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The best Salah after the Fard [Salah], is Salah performed in the night.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 591, Hadees 1163)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a for salvation from disgrace on the Day of Judgement

In today’s Madani Halqahs of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima of Dawat-e-Islami, the ‘Du’a for salvation from disgrace on the Day of Judgement’ would be memorized, which is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ لَا تُخْزِ نِیْ یَوْمَ الْبَأسِ وَ لَا تُخْزِ نِیْ یَوْ مَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

(Mu’jam-e-Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 19, Hadees 2459)

Translation: O Allah Almighty! Save me from disgrace on the day of hardships and save me from disgrace on the Day of Judgement.

(Faizan-e-Du’a, pp. 317)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

