اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

How can Interest in Worship be developed?

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There will be no shade on the Day of Judgement except for the Throne of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Three persons will remain beneath the shade of the Divine Throne. It was humbly asked, ‘O the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who will be those people?’ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(1) The one who relieves the distress of my

Ummati (follower) (2) the one who revives my Sunnah (3) and the one who recites Salat upon me abundantly.’ (Al-Budoor-us-Saafirah, pp. 131, Hadees 366)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود ان پہ سدا میں

اور ذکر کا بھی شوق پئے غوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Child who loved Salah

A man came to Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, a great pious saint of the great Sufi chain Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, and humbly said:

I saw a strange thing this night. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked: What did you see? He humbly said: My family members desired to eat fish. Hence I went to the market and bought fish and then hired a labour, who was a child, so that he could carry the fish to my home. He started walking with me. On the way, when he heard the Azan for Zuhr Salah, he told me: O Sir! Won’t you offer Zuhr Salah? It was as if he had roused me to the fact. I replied: Of course, why not! I will definitely offer. He kept the pot carrying the fish at the gate of the Masjid and entered the Masjid. I said to myself: This child has sacrificed the pot for Salah, so can’t I sacrifice the fish? He continued to offer Salah until the Iqamah was called out and we offered Salah with the Jama’at (congregation). When we got out of the Masjid we saw the pot was there where we left. Having reached home I told the parable to my family members. They started saying: Invite the child to our home for eating the fish. When I invited him he said: I am observing Sawm. I then asked him to have Iftar at our home. He accepted our invitation and asked me to show him the way to the Masjid. I showed him the way and he went to the Masjid and sat over there. When we completed Maghrib Salah, I asked him: Now come to my home. He replied: I will go with you after offering ‘Isha Salah. After offering ‘Isha Salah I took him to my home that had three rooms: One for me and my wife, second one for my daughter who was disabled since 20 years and the third one for our guest. In the last part of the night someone suddenly knocked at the door. I asked who is this? A voice came: I am your so-and-so daughter. I said: She has been disabled since 20 years; and she is like a piece of meat at home; how is it possible for her to walk after recovering? Hearing this she started saying: I am the same daughter of yours.

Open the door. When I opened the door, I found her that she was standing absolutely alright. We asked her as to how she recovered. She replied: When I heard you talking about the guest with goodness, so this thought came to my mind that I should beseech in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ through the Wasilah (sake) of this guest, so that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ remove my trouble. I, therefore, humbly said:

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I present the Sadaqah of the dignity of this guest of ours in Your Blessed Court! Remove my trouble and bestow upon me peace. Having made this Du’a I stood upright as you can see me right now. Hearing this I went towards my guest, but I did not find him in the home. I then went to the door, but the door was closed too. After hearing this, Sayyiduna Ma’roof Karkhi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Of course! Pious saints are certainly found amongst the elders and the youngers as well. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 109)

عبادت میں گزرے مِری زِندگانی کرم ہو کرم یا خدا یا اِلٰہی

(وسائلِ بخشش ص 105)

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned parable not only have we learnt that the Du’as which are made by the Wasilah of righteous people are answered, but we have also learnt about the child’s strong desire for Salah and worship as he preferred Salah to his work. Further, not only did he himself go to the Masjid as he heard the Azan, but he also took the person to the Masjid after presenting him the call towards Salah. Alas! As we are getting away from the blessed era of Risalat, we are continuously becoming more and more negligent in Salahs. Today we hear the Azan, but due to remaining busy with our work or due to only being lazy we miss our Salah. On the other hand, for committing a sin our laziness immediately turns into activeness. There are some people who do not deliberately offer Salah for many months if they miss one Salah or a few Salahs. If an Islamic brother persuades them to offer Salah by making an individual effort upon them, they say: اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will restart offering Salah from the next Friday or I will offer Salah regularly from the blessed month of Ramadan. Thus without feeling ashamed or hesitant and with bluntness, مَعَاذَ اللہ it is acknowledged that

he will continue to commit the grave sin of missing Salahs until Friday or until the blessed month of Ramadan. Perhaps that is why today we have no unity in our homes; fights and quarrels have become a daily routine. Everyone is worried due to having no blessing in sustenance; parents are sick of their disobedient children.

Just ponder! Why is it happening to us? Why are we having these troubles? Perhaps it is because today we have stopped acting upon the blessed sayings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and are busy performing the acts of disobedience to them day and night. If we do not offer Salah ourselves and do not persuade our children to offer Salah, so remember, we may often have to suffer from the same troubles. How excellently someone has said to wake us from our heedlessness:

جوکچھ ہیں وہ سب اپنے ہی ہاتھوں کے ہیں کر تُوت شکوہ ہے زمانے کا نہ قسمت کا گِلہ ہے

دیکھے ہیں یہ دن اپنی ہی غفلت کی بدولت سچ ہے کہ بُرے کام کا اَنجام بُرا ہے

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely the reason for the troubles, illnesses, fights, quarrels and poverty we have in our homes, may be due to the violation of the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Thus, assuming life a golden opportunity, make true repentance and start offering Salah regularly. Otherwise, remember! Missing Salah deliberately is a grave sin, Haraam act and an act leading to Hell. In Ayah 59 of Surah Maryam part 16, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَخَلَفَ مِنْۢ بَعْدِهِمْ خَلْفٌ اَضَاعُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اتَّبَعُوا الشَّهَوٰتِ فَسَوْفَ یَلْقَوْنَ غَیًّاۙ(۵۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And after them came the unworthy successors who squandered prayer and pursued their own desires, so they will soon encounter the forest of Ghayy [ غَیّ ] in Hell.

(Part 16, Surah Maryam, Ayah 59)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the above-mentioned blessed Ayah ‘Ghayy’ [ غَیّ ] has been mentioned that means ‘a valley of Hell’. Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘Ghayy’ [ غَیّ ] is a valley in Hell which is the hottest and deepest of all. It has a well namely, ‘Hab Hab’ [ ہَبْ ہَبْ ]. When the fire of Hell is about to be extinguished, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens the well due to which it [i.e. the fire of Hell] blazes, as usual. (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated)

كُلَّمَا خَبَتْ زِدْنٰهُمْ سَعِیْرًا(۹۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Whenever it is about to extinguish, We will inflame it more for them.

(Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 97)

This well is for the people who do not offer Salah, fornicators, drinkers, usurers and for those who hurt their parents. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 434)

اِلٰہی ہوں بَہُت کمزور بندہ نہ دُنیا میں نہ عُقبیٰ میں سزا ہو

(وسائلِ بخشش ص 316)

Torment of Hell and troubles of the world

Dear Islamic brothers! Tremble with Divine fear and make true repentance. Just ponder, when the person who does not offer Salah will be put into the dangerous valley, so what will become of him? Therefore safety lies in it that we should develop a strong desire for Nafl acts of worship besides offering Fard acts regularly; we should offer all five Salahs with Jama’at, offer the Nawafil of Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen, observe Siyam of the month of Ramadan every year and should also observe Nafl Siyam during the year. In case of being the owner of Nisab (i.e. liable to pay Zakah), we should make our habit to spend in other righteous acts besides paying Zakat. We should form a habit to recite the Holy Quran, do Zikr and recite Salat-‘Alan-

Nabi daily. Further, we should be beware of our enemy, accursed Satan, because when he sees us day and night busy with these acts of worship, he will try his best to divert our attention away from this path. He will make us feel lazy and will use different tricks to make us heedless, but remaining steadfast we will have to make Du’a for steadfastness in worship until we are alive instead of feeling proud of our acts of worship. Our Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded us to worship until the end of our life:

وَ اعْبُدْ رَبَّكَ حَتّٰى یَاْتِیَكَ الْیَقِیْنُ۠(۹۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And keep worshipping your Lord, till death.

(Part 14, Surah Al-Hijr, Ayah 99)

No bondman can be free from worship

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Ayah it is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan: No matter how great pious saint a person becomes, he cannot be free from acts of worship. When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was commanded to worship until his blessed apparent demise, so who are we? From this, such people should get advice who considering themselves to be of very high status and rank become lazy in the acts of worship. They should ponder lest they fall prey to Satan’s secret and dangerous attack because by such attacks Satan has led great Mashaaikh astray and with the same attack he tried to deceive Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the chief of pious saints.

All this is the grace of my Lord

Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu Nasr Musa Bin Shaykh Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: My father said: During a journey, I went towards a desert and stayed there for a few days, but I could not get water. When I felt thirsty, a cloud gave me a shade and a thing resembling rain fell from it on me by which my thirst was satisfied. I then saw a Noor that illuminated the corner of the sky and a face appeared from which I heard a voice: O Abdul Qaadir! I am your Rab and I have made Haraam things Halal for you. So I recited

‘ اَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْم ’ and said: O accursed Satan! Get lost! So the illuminated corner turned into darkness and the face turned into smoke. It then told me: O Abdul Qaadir! You have achieved salvation from me through your knowledge and the commandment of your Lord, and in the similar way I have led 70 Mashaaikh astray. I said: It is only the Grace and Favour of my Lord.

Sayyiduna Shaykh Abu Nasr Musa رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked: How did you know it was Satan? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I knew from the thing that he said: Undoubtedly, I have made Haraam things Halal for you. (Bahjat-ul-Asraar, pp. 228, Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, Part 14, Al-Hijr, Taht-al-Ayah 99, vol. 5, pp. 274)

شہا نفسِ اماّرہ مغلوب ہو اب ہو شیطان کا دُور شر غوثِ اَعظم

Real purpose of jinns and humans’ birth

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How Satan tries to lead righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ astray, but what will become of us? Firstly, we do not worship. Secondly, if we perform a virtuous deed, we become very happy and do not feel relaxed until we mention it to many people to make a good name for ourselves. Further, considering ourselves to be better than others, we think that we are pious and abstinent.

Remember! Satan worshipped thousands of years and had been the teacher of angels, but due to arrogance and disobedience to Divine commandment, his years of acts of worship became useless and spiritual exercises of thousands of years were ruined. He has been predestined to disgrace and curse forever and has become deserving of the torment of fire forever after losing his faith. Alas! We do not know as to how many times we disobey our Lord in a day; we continue to commit sins throughout the day; we do not perform Fard [obligatory] acts of worship, let alone performing Nafl acts of worship. However, the purpose of our birth is to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In Ayah 56 of Surah Az-Zariyaat part 27, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ مَا خَلَقْتُ الْجِنَّ وَ الْاِنْسَ اِلَّا لِیَعْبُدُوْنِ(۵۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And I created the jinns and men, only for them to worship Me.

(Part 27, Surah Az-Zariyaat, Ayah 56)

Similarly, in Ayah 2 of Surah Al-Mulk part 29, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated this purpose like this:

الَّذِیْ خَلَقَ الْمَوْتَ وَ الْحَیٰوةَ لِیَبْلُوَكُمْ اَیُّكُمْ اَحْسَنُ عَمَلًاؕ-وَ هُوَ الْعَزِیْزُ الْغَفُوْرُۙ(۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The One Who created death and life to test you - who among you has the better deeds; and He only is the Most Honourable, the Oft Forgiving. (Part 29, Surah Al-Mulk, Ayah 2)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the both above-mentioned blessed Ayahs the real purpose of the creation of human has been mentioned. For achieving this purpose man has been sent to this world for a very brief period of time and during this period of time he will have to prepare for the matters of the grave and the Judgement Day that will go on for a very long period of time. Therefore attaching importance to this time, get busy preparing for the grave and the Judgement Day. Instead of wasting any moment of your life in useless activities try to spend it in worship and spiritual exercises, recitation of the Holy Quran, abundance of Zikr and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and presenting call towards righteousness because we do not know whether we shall be alive the next moment or death will make us sleep deeply forever.

Let’s listen to an admonitory saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to wake up to the fact: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: اِغْتَنِمْ خَمْساً قَبْلَ خَمْسٍ Value five things before five things! (1) شَبَابَکَ قَبْلَ ہَرَمِکَ Youth before old age (2) وَصِحَّتَکَ قَبْلَ سَقَمِکَ Health before illness (3) وَغِنَاکَ قَبْلَ فَقْرِکَ Wealth

before poverty (4) وَفَرَاغَکَ قَبْلَ شُغْلِک Spare time before being busy (5) وَحَیَاتَکَ قَبْلَ مَوْتِکَ And life before death. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 5, pp. 435, Hadees 7916)

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping the real aim of our life in mind and attaching importance to our healthy bodies and youth before any illness, disability or old age, we should perform as many virtuous deeds as possible.

Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would remain busy worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the whole night and due to standing for a long time, his blessed feet would swell. Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would stand so much during the Salah that his blessed feet would swell. (One day) Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! You are doing like this though Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has forgiven the sins of the people of the past and the future because of your blessed self! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘O ‘Aaishah! (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا) ‘ اَفَلَا اَکُوْنُ عَبْدًا شَکُوْرًا ’ Should I not become the thankful bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Muslim, pp. 1148, Hadees 7126)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would perform worship and spiritual exercises to such an extent that his blessed feet would swell, even then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would remain busy with worship. On the other hand, we remain busy throughout the day in worldly chores and remain heedless of offering Salahs which are to be offered during the day. Furthermore, making excuses of being tired we sleep heedlessly without offering Isha Salah at night. We set our alarms at night if we have to go somewhere for the purpose of business or job so that we do not get late, but regretfully, why don’t we make such an effort for offering Fajr Salah with Jama’at.

Remember! We are Muslims and for Muslims five Salahs throughout the day are obligatory. The one who misses Salah will become a sinner and deserving of the torment of fire. We have to offer all five Salahs whether we are travelling or in home, facing cold or hot weather, having joyful or sad occasions. In addition to performing obligatory Salahs, acting upon the beautiful Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we should try to perform some acts of worship regularly after sacrificing our sleep even during

the night so that we can also be included amongst the righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, because performing worship during the night is a very beautiful attribute of righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated this attribute in Ayah 64 of Surah Al-Furqan, part 19 like this:

و َ الَّذِیْنَ یَبِیْتُوْنَ لِرَبِّهِمْ سُجَّدًا وَّ قِیَامًا(۶۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And who spend the night prostrating and standing, for their Lord. (Part 19, Surah Al-Furqan, Ayah 64)

Similarly, in Ayah 16 of Surah As-Sajdah, part 21 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

تَتَجَافٰى جُنُوْبُهُمْ عَنِ الْمَضَاجِعِ یَدْعُوْنَ رَبَّهُمْ خَوْفًا وَّ طَمَعًا٘-وَّ مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ یُنْفِقُوْنَ(۱۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Their sides stay detached from their beds and they pray to their Lord with fear and hope - and they spend from what We have bestowed upon them. (Part 21, Surah As-Sajdah, Ayah 16)

Likewise, in Ayah 17 and 18 of Surah Az-Zariyaat part 26 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

كَانُوْا قَلِیْلًا مِّنَ الَّیْلِ مَا یَهْجَعُوْنَ(۱۷) وَ بِالْاَسْحَارِ هُمْ یَسْتَغْفِرُوْنَ(۱۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: They used to sleep only a little during the night. And used to seek forgiveness before dawn.

(Part 26, Surah Az-Zariyaat, Ayah 17-18)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the above-mentioned blessed Ayahs the strong desire of the righteous bondmen to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has been mentioned by saying that when people sleep these righteous personages become occupied with the worship of their Lord.

Remember! Pious saints would also do business for earning Halal sustenance and teach manners to their family during the day. Although after working throughout the day everyone loves sleeping in the night, these personages, instead of sleeping, would make their Rab happy and would repent and make Istighfar. If they felt sleepy as they were humans, they would get rid of sleep in different ways and then would get busy with the worship again.

Unique way of getting rid of sleep!

Sayyiduna Shaykh Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: in the beginning of my spiritual exercises when I would feel sleepy, I would apply salt with the needle (applicator) in my eyes. When I would feel much sleepy, I would move a hot needle in my eyes. Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Haakim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: When my respected father would feel sleepy, he would go into the river and start doing Tasbih of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by hearing which the fishes of the river would gather and they would also start doing Tasbih. When Sayyiduna Wahb Bin Munabbih رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made Du’a to get rid of his sleep, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ answered to his Du’a and he did not feel sleepy for forty years. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 38)

Let’s listen to a few parables of worship acts and spiritual exercises carried out by the pious saints’ during the night and create a strong desire for worship.

Humbleness should be like this!

Sayyiduna Habib Najaar رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship the whole night and would observe Sawm throughout the day. He would give the food he was presented for Iftar to others and would worship himself hungrily the whole night in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . When the morning was about to come he would humbly say in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: I remained heedless and continued to commit sins. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This disgraceful, sinful and ill bondman of Yours is present at Your door of mercy and beseech Your protection. (Ar-Raud-ul-Faaiq, pp. 246)

Home would remain illuminated without oil lamp!

The sister of Imam Muhammad Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه Sayyidatuna Hafsah Bin Seereen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا was a woman in Basra who would perform worship too much. She would spend the whole night offering Salah and recite half of the Quran during the Salah. Sometimes she would stand for such a long time at the place where she would offer Salah that her oil lamp would get extinguished, but the home would remain illuminated for her until the morning (without the oil lamp). (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 7, pp. 53)

O Nafs, how long will you sleep?

Sayyidatuna Raabi’ah Basariyyah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا had a habit till her death that she would offer Salah the whole night. When the time of Fajr would get near, she would sleep for a while. She then would wake up and say: O Nafs! How long will you sleep and how long will you be awake? Very soon you will experience such a sleep after which you will wake up only in the morning of the Judgement Day. (Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 6, pp. 242)

جاگنا ہے جاگ لے اَفلاک کے سائے تلے

حشر تک سوتا رہے گا خَاک کے سائے تلے

Advantages of performing worship during night

Dear Islamic brothers! After hearing the parables of the pious saints we must also have created a strong desire to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . We, therefore, should try to perform some worship and recitation of the Holy Quran regularly after offering Isha Salah with Jama’at and resting for some time after getting rid of laziness because performing worship during the night has many advantages. Let’s listen to some of its advantages in the light of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan .

Remember! The worship that is Fard (obligatory) to perform at a fixed time should be performed at the same time. However, to perform Nafl worship during the night is more beneficial as compared to the day.

٭ At this time, one can feel ease of mind in reciting the Holy Quran and understanding it because there is no noise, but rather peace and satisfaction which are a very big source of attaining ease of mind.

٭ At this time, one attains pure sincerity in performing worship and there is no show-off in worship because people are not usually awake due to which a person does not get the chance to show off [his deeds/worship].

(Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 7, pp. 52)

عبادت میں گُزرے مِری زِندگانی کرم ہو کرم یا خُدا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today our practical condition is getting very terrible. We try to outdo one another from worldly viewpoint such as seeing someone’s splendid bungalow we try to build ours like him, seeing someone in nice dress we desire to wear like the same, seeing someone’s new car or successful business we get mouth-watering reactions. We have become so greedy for the worldly wealth that we heave a sigh for getting it day and night and do not feel tired even a bit for making efforts for it. Have we ever developed the desire to become righteous after seeing someone performing virtuous deeds? Have we ever developed the passion for performing all five Salahs with Jama’at after seeing someone going towards Masjid? Have we ever developed the passion for adopting Madani appearance after seeing someone wearing a dress, having a beard and wearing a blessed Imamah as per Sunnah? Have we ever created a strong desire for gaining Islamic knowledge after seeing someone attending Madani Dars, Madani visits, Madani Muzakarahs and weekly Ijtima’aat? If only we also develop the passion for becoming righteous after seeing others busy with righteous deeds! If we make pious predecessors our ideal in religious matters in a way as we make worldly people our ideal in worldly matters, so not only do we make our worldly life better, but it will also become the cause of our salvation in the Hereafter اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Night worship brought about forgiveness!

Sayyiduna Qabeesah Bin ‘Uqbah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in dream after his death and asked: ‘ مَا فَعَلَ اللہُ بِکَ ’ i.e. How did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you? He replied: I saw my Merciful Lord, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to me: O Ibn-e-Sa’eed! Congratulations, I am pleased with you because when night would fall, you would worship Me with tears and undivided attention. Paradise is in front of you; whatever palace you want you may take and you keep viewing Me because I am not far from you. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 77)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Madani Muzakarah—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to spend your life as per the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, offer Salahs, observe Siyam and perform Nafl acts of worship regularly and increase the passion for acting upon the life of pious predecessors associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. One of them is ‘Weekly Madani Muzakarah’. This Madani activity has countless religious and worldly benefits. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakarahs one gets the mind-set of avoiding sins. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakarahs, one gains Islamic knowledge. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Muzakarahs, one gains moral training besides Islamic information. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of this Madani activity countless people have become righteous after giving up their sinful life. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion and make intention to attend Madani Muzakarahs regularly.

Madani Channel changed my life

Here is a summary of a piece of writing received from an Islamic brother from Sardarabad (Faisalabad, Punjab, Pakistan): Before I joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, I was a loafing and quarrelling person. I was so ill-mannered that I felt no shame to misuse my eyes. I neither greeted anyone with Salam nor did I treat anyone with respect. In short, I was stuck in

the deep pit of sins and had gone far away from the path of Sunnah. At last, the breeze of mercy came towards me. Fortunately, one day, I had the privilege to watch the Madani Channel. By the Grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I – a wicked and sinful person – liked it so much that I began to watch its various serials every day. The very first blessing I gained by watching the Madani Channel is that I started attending Masjid to offer Salah, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ!

One day, I met a devotee of Rasool in Masjid who was a follower of Sunnah and a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami. I found great inner peace after I met him. One day, he came to my shop and conveyed to me the call to righteousness. By virtue of the call to righteousness, I attended the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami for the first time in my life. I enjoyed the recitation of Quran, Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring speech and chants of the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ during the Ijtima’. I liked the Du’a made at the end of the Ijtima’ so much that I began to love Dawat-e-Islami from the bottom of my heart. Whenever I saw devotees of Rasool dressed in white clothing with green turbans on their heads, I would feast my eyes on them.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of the Madani environment, I also adorned my face with a beard – a sign of love for the Revered and Renowned Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . By the Grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I was further privileged to attend the 30-day congregational I’tikaf held by Dawat-e-Islami in the blessed month of Ramadan, 1430 AH. I got two of my nephews admitted to Madrasa-tul-Madinah for the memorization of the Holy Quran. I also started delivering Dars at my shop. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ lead Dawat-e-Islami to the heights of success and glory which has launched such a great ‘Madani Channel’ that led a sinful person like me to get reformed! By the blessing of watching the Madani Channel, my small children have acquired as much knowledge as I have gained in adulthood. How wonderful Madani Channel is!

مدنی چینل کی مہِم ہےنفس وشیطاں کے خلاف جو بھی دیکھے گا کریگا اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ا ِعتراف

نفسِ اَمَّارہ پہ ضَرب ایسی لگے گی زور دار کہ ندامت کے سبب ہوگا گنہگار اشکبار

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Some methods to create passion for worship!

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the virtues of worship and the parables of pious predecessors in order to create a passion for worship. They used to spend their days and nights in worship. At present, majority of us do not perform worship and are busy committing sins. We should ponder over the causes, the curse of which is not letting us perform worship.

Remember! There are many causes of being heedless of worship due to which we have forgotten the real purpose of our life. Due to keeping busy with them neither can we attain any worldly benefits, nor will these causes be beneficial for our Hereafter. Now let’s listen to the causes, due to which we do not get pleasure and steadfastness in worship, and their cure.

1. Make Du’a for creating desire for worship!

Dear Islamic brothers! For developing further strong desire, make Du’a in the blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would also make Du’a for getting help in worship like this: اَللّٰہُمَّ اَعِنِّیْ عَلٰی ذِکْرِکَ وَشُکْرِکَ وَحُسْنِ عِبَادَتِکَ O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Help me in [doing] Your Zikr, [expressing] Your gratitude and [performing] Your worship in a proper way. (Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 7, pp. 134, Hadees 2)

2. Dispel worldly love from heart!

Another reason for not having a strong desire for worship is wrong love for wealth and to remain busy accumulating wealth all the time due to which we are becoming heedless of the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the rights of people.

Remember! All these are the signs of love for the world as we feel anxiety about business even during the Salah due to which we remain deprived of the real pleasure of worship. Sayyiduna Isa Ruhullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام has said: The way a patient does not derive pleasure from the food, similarly, a worldly person does not derive pleasure from worship because the one who feels pleasure in the love for the world cannot get the pleasure of worship.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 264)

The cure for it is to dispel the love of the world from your heart and get into the habit of earning Halal sustenance as per need along with [offering] Salah and other acts of worship. Our pious predecessors would also do business and many of them were very successful traders, but during job or trade if they heard the sound of Azan, they would go towards the Masjid after discontinuing all their work. Even if a blacksmith lifted his hammer or a cobbler inserted the needle into a shoe, he would leave it there. Some pious predecessors would appoint children and Ahl-ul-Kitab Zimmees on a wages at the time of Salah for the security of their shops and they themselves go to the Masjid. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 108)

میں پانچوں نمازیں پڑھوں باجماعت ہو توفیق ایسی عطا یا الٰہی

میں پڑھتا رہوں سنتیں، وقت ہی پر ہوں سارے نوافل ادا یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

3. Form your habit to eat less!

Dear Islamic brothers! Another obstacle and laziness in worship is to eat one’s fill because when a person eats his fill, his body becomes heavy, eyes filled with sleep and body parts become lazy. He despite making efforts cannot do any work and thus becomes lazy in worship and recitation of the Holy Quran.

The cure for it is to form the habit of eating less than the appetite so that the pleasure from worship can be attained. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will not become lazy in worship and it will develop the desire for worship. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Siddeeq-e-Akbar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once said: I have never eaten my fill since I became Muslim so that I can have the privilege of getting pleasure in worship and since I became Muslim, I have never drunk (water etc.) my fill due to the strong desire for viewing my Lord. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 84)

Sayyiduna Abu Sulayman Daarani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I feel pleasure the most in worship at that time when my stomach is empty due to hunger. (Minhaj-ul-‘Aabideen, pp. 84)

بُھوک کی اور پیاس کی مولیٰ مجھے سوغات دے

یا اِلٰہی! حَشْر میں دِیدار کی خیرات دے

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

4. Use mobile phone and internet correctly!

Dear Islamic brothers! Another reason for the obstacle and why we do not take interest in worship is the use of internet and mobile phone. The correct use of internet and mobile phone not only is the source of gaining countless advantages, but due to their incorrect and unnecessary use we have to face many disadvantages. One of the biggest disadvantages is that a person wastes his time after becoming heedless of Salah, Sawm, recitation of the Holy Quran and Nafl act of worship. At present, our young generation has got so much used to social media that they do not give up the use of internet and mobile phone for even a moment. They remain intermittently busy wasting their time and money by sharing their matters such as sleeping and waking up, shopping, eating delicious food, attending any ceremony such as wedding ceremony, going to a picnic point, doing stupid things and other affairs on social media amongst their friends. Some are so crazy of mobile phone and internet that if they do not use it any day, they spend their entire day restlessly and sadly. Just ponder, have we ever felt restless due to missing our Salah? Have we ever felt sad due to not reciting the Holy Quran? Have we ever felt sad due to not offering the Nawafil of Ishraq, Chasht and Tahajjud?

The cure for it is to use simple mobile phone if needed or if you need to have a mobile phone for using internet, so instead of watching funny and indecent videos and listening to music, buy the memory cards containing recitation of the Holy Quran and Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring speeches of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Nigran-e-Shura and other preachers and Fard Uloom courses and listen to them attentively and spread them to your relatives and friends. By virtue of its blessings you will get abundant information and abstaining from sins you will develop the strong desire for worship, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

ہماری بگڑی ہوئی عادتیں نکل جائیں ملے گناہوں کے امراض سے شفا یا رب

مجھے دے خودکو بھی اورساری دنیا والوں کو سدھارنے کی تڑپ اور حوصلہ یا رب

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

5. Keep advantages of worship in mind!

Dear Islamic brothers! Keep Divine pleasure along with its worldly and Hereafter advantages in mind in order to develop interest in worship as it will also create a strong desire for worship. Maulana Naqi Ali Khan, the father of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, has mentioned many worldly and Hereafter benefits of performing worship. Let’s listen to some of them:

1 The person who worships is included in the list of bondmen worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ praises Aabids (worshipers).

2 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves him.

3 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets his all tasks right.

4 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gives him sustenance.

5 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ helps him and protects him from the evil and mischief of his enemies.

6 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes his close friend and removes terror from his heart.

7 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ creates his love in the heart of people due to which the younger and the elder, the rich and the poor, the good and the bad even beasts and birds of the sky and the earth have love for him.

8 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him blessings to the extent that people get blessings from his clothes and home and get benefits from them.

9 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, attains the respect in the Blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that people make Wasilah of his honour and blessing for their needs and get their desires fulfilled through his Tawassul and intercession.

10 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, stays safe from the severities of death.

11 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him steady in his faith and Ma’rifat at the time of death and saves him from the evil thoughts instilled by Satan and his deception.

12 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants him peace from the Fitnah of grave and teaches him the answers to the questions of Nakirayn.

13 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ illuminates and widens his grave.

14 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ opens a window in his grave towards the Paradise.

15 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ saves him from the difficulties of the Judgement Day.

16 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will be given his Book of deeds in his right hand.

17 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his accountability will be made easily or his accountability will not be made at all.

18 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will be made to drink the water of Kawsar pond. After he has drunk the water, he will never feel thirsty.

19 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will cross the Siraat Bridge easily.

20 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will be made to sit on the pulpits of Noor and will be given space under the blessed shade of ‘Arsh or under the blessed shade of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

21 The one who worships Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will be privileged to see Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and this blessing is the best of all blessings and perfect of all bestowals. (Al-Kalam-ul-Awdah, pp. 328-329)

Further methods to create passion for worship!

Dear Islamic brothers! Have good company to create a passion for worship because seeing righteous people busy with worship and recitation of the Holy Quran will also develop the passion for worship in us. Further, give up the habit of performing virtuous deeds for name and show-off because it will not benefit our Hereafter. Perform worship only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will not only benefit in the world, but it will also bring success in the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed ‘Urs of Sultan-ul-Hind Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is celebrated on 6 th Rajab-ul-Murajjab. There is a glad tiding for devotees of Sahabah [companions] and devotees of Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that from this year, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ an “Ijtima Yaum-e-Ghareeb Nawaz” would be arranged within the country and abroad. Its duration would be approx. 2 hours. It will include (recitation of the Holy Quran, Hamd, Na’at and Manqabat, Sunnah-inspired Bayans, Du’a and Salat and Salam) as per schedule. One more glad tiding: From this year, in addition to weekly Madani Muzakarahs, 6 Madani Muzakarahs of Rajab-ul-Murajjab will be conducted with special arrangements اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Let’s listen briefly to his blessed biography in relation to it.

Name, lineage and brief introduction

The name of Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is Hassan Chishti Ajmayri. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 1142 (537 H) at Sanjar in Saijistan or Seestaan in a prestigious and educated family. (Iqtibas-ul-Anwaar, pp. 345)

His famous titles include Mu’eenuddin, Ghareeb Nawaz, Sultan-ul-Hind and Atta-e-Rasool. (Mu’een-ul-Hind Hazrat Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Ajmayri, pp. 20)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also travelled Syria, Baghdad and Kirman, etc., for gaining knowledge. During the visit of Haramayn he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with the sainthood of India from the blessed court of Risalat and was ordered to serve Islam in India. (Sayr-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 142)

With his good manners, good character and speech, he propagated Islam in this region. Hundreds of thousands of people embraced Islam after being impressed thanks to him. Through reformation and preaching, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه prepared such a group of students and Khulafa that carried out the great duty of serving Islam everywhere in Pakistan and India (subcontinent). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also carried out the duty of serving Islam and reforming people through his writings and books. In his books, one can find the mention of Anees-ul-Arwah, Kashf-ul-Asraar, Ganj-ul-Asraar and Deevan-e-Mu’een. (Mu’een-ul-Hind Hazrat Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Ajmayri, pp. 103 - 106)

Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه approximately spent 45 years serving Islam in India. Finally, this fountain of wisdom and knowledge and guidance departed this world on 6 th Rajab 627 H in Ajmer Sharif (Rajasthan, India). His luminous shrine is situated in Ajmer Shareef.

جو بھی سائل آجاتا ہے من کی مرادیں پا جاتا ہے

میں نے بھی دامن ہے پسارا یا خواجہ مری جھولی بھردو

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Tafteesh Qira`at-o-Masa’il

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam in more than 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Tafteesh Qira`at-o-Masa’il’. The aim of this Majlis is to investigate the Islamic brothers at home and abroad who are offering different Islamic services

under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami. The procedure of this investigation is as follows:

Blessed Aimmah, preachers, teachers, etc., Islamic brothers are tested on Qira’at and Shar’i rulings face to face or via internet. The aim of this test is to examine the necessary Islamic and educational abilities of these Islamic brothers besides their moral competence so that they can carry out their duties related to serving Islam in a better way. In 2017, approximately 15,809 Islamic brothers belonging to different departments were tested. The Islamic brothers who do not pass this test are given Madani Tarbiyyat (training).

اللہ کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دھوم مچی ہو!

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to worship with sincerity for the sake of Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls about Nafl Siyam

1 The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever keeps a Nafl Sawm expecting reward, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will move him as far away from Hell as is the distance of 40 years.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 255, Hadees 24148)

2 The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: If someone keeps a Nafl Sawm and (even if he) is given the whole earth full of gold (as a reward) his reward will still remain incomplete, he will be given his reward on the Day of Judgement only. (Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 353, Hadees 6104)

3 Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام used to observe Sawm the first three days, the middle three days, and the last three days of the month. Hence he used to be in the state of observing Sawm in the beginning, middle and end of the month. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 304, Hadees 24624)

4 If parents prevent their son from having a Nafl Sawm for fear of illness, he must obey his parents. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 416)

5 A wife cannot keep a Nafl Sawm without her husband’s permission. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 3, pp. 415)

6 In case of having a Nafl Sawm deliberately, it becomes Wajib to complete it. If it is broken it will be Wajib to make up for it. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 411)

7 If an employee or labourer will not be able to carry out his work properly and completely due to Nafl Sawm, it is necessary for him to seek the permission of his employer. However, if he can do work completely he does not require his employer’s permission in this case. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 3, pp. 416)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

