Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Unique Du’a for protection from sins . 4

Caravan of 12 travellers . 9

Status of people having patience . 10

Divine Decree about nations’ rise and fall 11

How should thanks be expressed for body parts? . 12

Introduction to book ‘Shukr kay Fazaail’ 13

The reason for calling Sayyiduna Nuh ‘ عَبۡدًا شَكُوۡرًا ’ 14

Manner of expressing thanks of Sayyiduna ‘Ali 15

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri’s manner of expressing thanks . 15

Kept mentioning blessings whole night long . 15

‘Masjid Dars’, one of the 12 Madani activities . 16

Adorned ‘Imamah by the blessing of Dars . 16

Punishment for being unthankful 17

Majlis Al-Madinah Library . 18

Few methods of showing thankfulness . 19

1. Read about thankfulness . 19

2. Look at the people who have lower status than you . 20

3. Ponder over blessings . 20

4. Express thankfulness through body parts . 21

5. Patience upon hardship . 21

6. Travel with Madani Qafilah . 21

7. Keep watching Madani Channel 21

Birth and death of Attar’s beloved . 22

Distinguished characteristics of Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat 22

Summary of speech . 23

Sunan and manners of Miswak . 24

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 26

2. All sins forgiven .. 26

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 27

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 27

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 27

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 28

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 28

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 28

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Unique Du’a for protection from sins . 4

Caravan of 12 travellers . 9

Status of people having patience . 10

Divine Decree about nations’ rise and fall 11

How should thanks be expressed for body parts? . 12

Introduction to book ‘Shukr kay Fazaail’ 13

The reason for calling Sayyiduna Nuh ‘ عَبۡدًا شَكُوۡرًا ’ 14

Manner of expressing thanks of Sayyiduna ‘Ali 15

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri’s manner of expressing thanks . 15

Kept mentioning blessings whole night long . 15

‘Masjid Dars’, one of the 12 Madani activities . 16

Adorned ‘Imamah by the blessing of Dars . 16

Punishment for being unthankful 17

Majlis Al-Madinah Library . 18

Few methods of showing thankfulness . 19

1. Read about thankfulness . 19

2. Look at the people who have lower status than you . 20

3. Ponder over blessings . 20

4. Express thankfulness through body parts . 21

5. Patience upon hardship . 21

6. Travel with Madani Qafilah . 21

7. Keep watching Madani Channel 21

Birth and death of Attar’s beloved . 22

Distinguished characteristics of Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat 22

Summary of speech . 23

Sunan and manners of Miswak . 24

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 26

2. All sins forgiven .. 26

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 27

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 27

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 27

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 28

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 28

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 28

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Appreciate Blessings

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

It was a routine of Abu ‘Aroobah Al-Haraasi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that whenever anybody would read Ahadees in front of him then he [Abu ‘Aroobah Al-Haraasi] couldn’t help reciting Salat and Salam [upon the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] in a clearly audible voice. He used to say that one of the blessings of reading Hadees is that the reader gets the privilege of abundantly reciting Salat and Salam in the world and will get the blessings of Jannah in the Hereafter, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 198)

گندے نکمّے کمین مہنگے ہوں کوڑی کے تین کون ہمیں پالتا تم پہ کروڑوں درود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Unique Du’a for protection from sins

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Anas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna Yunus Bin Yusuf رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was one of the famous saints of his age. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would spend most of his time in Masjid and would remain busy worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He was young and devoted his youth for the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Once while he was coming out of the Masjid, suddenly his gaze fell on a young woman and his heart was attracted to her for a while, but then he immediately felt sorry for his act and raised his hands in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for Du’a and started making Du’a in the following words: O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Undoubtedly, you have blessed me with the eyes which are a very great blessing, but I am afraid, lest I suffer from the torment due to these eyes and these eyes become the cause of my destruction. O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Take away my eyesight. He had lost his eyesight and become blind as he completed his Du’a. He kept his nephew with him who would take him to the Masjid; he would also seek his help in other needs. His nephew would leave him in the Masjid and then he would start playing with children. When he needed something he would call him. Time went by in the same way. Once he was in the Masjid that he felt something crawling on his body. He called his nephew, but he was busy playing with children and could not come to him.

He got worried, lest anything should harm him. He again begged for help in the Divine court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and started making Du’a in the following words: O my Merciful and Compassionate Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You blessed me with the wealth of eyes which were a very great blessing, but I was afraid lest I should suffer from the torment due to the misuse of these eyes. So I made Du’a to You to take away my eyesight. O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Now I am afraid that if I do not get my eyesight back so it may become the cause of trouble and disgrace for me because I can’t see; any poisonous animal can harm me and I need the help of someone else in order to carry out my daily routine tasks again and again, which causes me great inconvenience. O my Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Restore my eyesight so that I can stay safe from disgrace and the dependence on people.

Sayyiduna Maalik Bin Anas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that the pious man did not even complete his Du’a, his eyesight was restored and then he headed towards his home without anyone’s help. I saw him in both states, that is, in the state that he lost his eyesight and in the state he was blessed with the eyesight

again by virtue of the blessing of Du’a. He would go to the Masjid himself like before and would worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our pious predecessors were very Allah-fearing, modest, regular Salah-offering, thankful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and مُسْتجابُ الدَّعوات (a person whose Du’as are accepted). They really knew the worth and importance of the blessings bestowed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If their gaze unintentionally fell on a strange woman, so instead of being lost in her beauty, following her and having dirty thoughts about her due to being deceived by Satan as immodest people do, these personages would feel sorry for this act of theirs because they knew that eyes are the great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and using them for the righteous and permissible deeds is like offering thanks for this blessing, whereas using them against Shari’ah is totally unwise, waste of the blessing and making yourself deserving of Hell as well. When they realized that they would not be able to fulfil the rights of a blessing, so they would raise their hands in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to withdraw that blessing so that they could not see any non-Mahram woman again. Here, this ruling should be kept in mind that it is Shar’i Wajib for a man to remove his gaze immediately if all of a sudden it unintentionally falls on any non-Mahram woman, whereas, it is not permissible to see her again.

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Ameer-ul-Mu’mineen, ‘Ali-ul-Murta d a کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی وَجۡھَـهُ الۡـکَرِیۡم: O ‘Ali (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ)! After you have cast a glance, do not cast the second glance (i.e. if you suddenly cast an unintentional glance at a woman then turn your eyes away instantly and do not glance again) because the first glance is permissible and the second glance is not permissible. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 356, Hadees 2786)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: First glance means the glance which is unintentionally cast on a strange (Na-Mahram) woman and the second glance means to intentionally see her again. If one fixes the first gaze, then it is considered to be the second gaze and this first gaze will also be a sin.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 17)

From the above-mentioned parable we have got the Madani pearl that despite being deprived of the blessing of eyes, the pious bondmen of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would perform Salah in the Masjid. They were of the opinion that if they were deprived of the blessing of the eyes so what; other blessings of theirs like hands, feet and other limbs etc., are safe and sound. Therefore, these personages would reach the Masjid with the help of someone in order to have the privilege of offering Salah with Jama’at (congregation). Would that, we could also understand the real worth of the blessings for the sake of pious saints and attain the privilege of protecting our eyes! Would that, we could also go to the Masjid and develop the passion for offering Salah with Jama’at!

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for making up the mind of Muslims to go to the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in Madani In’aam no. 2: Have you offered all five-time Salahs in the first row of the Masjid with first Takbeer? Further, have you tried to take anyone each time to Masjid with you?

In his booklet ‘ Method of Becoming Pious ’, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated about this Madani In’aam: If someone acts upon only on this Madani In’aam in a real sense, he will succeed.

میں بن جاؤں سراپا 'مدنی انعامات' کی تصویر

بنوں گا نیک یا الله اگر رحمت تری ہوگی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! No doubt, today the field of science and technology is developing very fast and achieving great success. New inventions and researches are being carried out very often. Nowadays the accounts of hundreds of thousands, millions, billions and trillions or rather countless things can be done easily by virtue of the help of modern devices. But despite so much advancement no such instrument has ever been invented that can count the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are countless; no one has ever counted them and nor will anyone be able to count them in future. In Ayah 18 of Surah An-Nahl, part 14, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated regarding His blessings:

وَ اِنْ تَعُدُّوْا نِعْمَةَ اللّٰهِ لَا تُحْصُوْهَاؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And if you count the favours of Allah, you will never be able to count them. (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, Ayah 18)

It is written in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan regarding the above-mentioned Ayah: The blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in creating the human being, such as a healthy body, body safe from defects, perfect eyes, intellect, the hearing power which enables to understand things, holding by the hands, walking by the legs etc., and the blessings which are bestowed upon the bondmen such as all the things which have been created to fulfil the religious and worldly needs of humans are so great in number that it is not possible to count them, even if someone tries to get the Ma’rifat (insight in Divine matters) of the minor blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he will never be able to achieve it, so what can we say about the blessings which cannot be counted even if all of the creations count them together. Therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: If you try to count the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and spend your lives in this work, even then you cannot do it. (Khaazin, An-Nahl, Taht-al-Ayah: 18, vol. 3, pp. 117)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has been understood that we can end many of our lives and make countless efforts even then we cannot count the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ at all and nor can we fulfil the right of any one of these blessings. Therefore, the way we consider wealth, health, prosperity, youth and safety etc., to be the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and praise Him only while we are having them and become grateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for these blessings, similarly instead of complaining to people in the state of poverty, illness, disability, old age, weakness, difficulties and problems, we should remain patient keeping the other blessings in mind and should thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ a lot for these blessings because truly speaking, we are unworthy people and are not even eligible to have any kind of blessings. When we attain the blessings we should thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for thanking Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we should perform the deeds which please Him and should abstain from the deeds which lead to His disobedience. But Alas! Now instead of expressing thanks on the occasions of ‘Aqeeqah, engagement, wedding and celebration of freedom, etc., مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

majority of Muslims destroy their Hereafter and displease Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by committing deeds like listening to songs and music, playing impermissible sports etc., having friendly relations with non-Mahram men and women and observing non-Shar’i customs.

Remember! This way of expressing thanks for blessings is not correct at all, but rather it is a way in which we are showing no appreciation and respect for the blessings because listening or singing songs and playing music are impermissible and Haraam acts which lead to Hell. Playing songs and music upon attaining a blessing is a very bad act. Let’s listen to three narrations on destructions of songs and music and get admonitory lessons:

1. Two voices are cursed in the world and the Hereafter. (1) Music at the time of blessing (2) Wailing at the time of trouble.

(Al-Kamil fi Du’afa-ir-Rijaal li Ibn ‘Adee, vol. 7, pp. 299)

2. One who sits beside a singing woman and attentively listens, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will pour lead into his ears on the Day of Judgement.

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 51, pp. 263)

3. ‘Allamah Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Save yourself from songs and music because they provoke lust and destroy shame. And these are equivalent to alcohol, containing the effect like intoxicant.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 280, Hadees 5108)

Dear Islamic brothers! Our pious predecessors had a great passion for expressing thanks for the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It can be judged by the fact that these personages did not commit the sin of being unthankful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by mentioning their troubles to anyone else despite being suffering from different types of troubles and difficulties. If someone is surprised at how they remained patient and lived a very peaceful life despite having lots of troubles and difficulties, so he should understand that these personages would mention other blessings and favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in this beautiful way which if we hear we will feel that they had every type of luxury and comfort. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable of such a patient pious man and try to act upon the Madani pearls from it.

Caravan of 12 travellers

Sayyiduna Imam Awza’ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A pious man told me a parable: I used to be wandering worriedly all the time in search of pious saints and would wander in deserts, mountains and jungles in order to find out their residence so that I could attain the blessing of their company. Once, I left for Egypt for the same purpose. When I reached near Egypt I saw a tent in a deserted place in which there was a person who had lost his arms, legs and eyes due to leprosy, but even in this state he was praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the following words: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I praise You in the way which is equivalent to the praise of Your entire creation. O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Undoubtedly, You are the Creator of the entire creation and you are superior to all; I praise You for this gift that You have made me superior to many people in your creation.

The pious man رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: When I saw this condition of that man, I said that by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I must ask the person if he has been taught these sacred sentences of Hamd (glorifying Allah) or they have been revealed to him. So I went to him with the same intention and said Salam. He answered to my Salam. I said: O the pious person! I want to ask you a question about one thing. Will you answer me? He said: If I know اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ I will definitely answer you. I asked: What is the blessing for which you are praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and what is the superiority bestowed on you, for which you are expressing thanks? (Though you have lost your hands, legs and eyes etc., even then you are praising Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). That person replied: Don’t you see how my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ has treated me? I replied: Why not, I have seen everything. He then started saying: Look! If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had willed, He would have showered fire upon me from the sky which could have burnt me and reduced to ashes. If He عَزَّوَجَلَّ had willed, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would have commanded the mountains and the mountains could have destroyed me. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had willed, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would have commanded the oceans which could have drowned me, or if He عَزَّوَجَلَّ had commanded the earth, it would have sunk me into it, but see, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has kept me safe from all these calamities. So then why shouldn’t I thank my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ, why shouldn’t I praise Him and why shouldn’t I have devotion to my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, vol. 1, pp. 146)

مِرے سر پہ عِصیاں کا بار آہ مولٰی! بڑھا جاتا ہے دم بدم یا الٰہی

زمیں بوجھ سے میرے پھٹتی نہیں ہے یہ تیرا ہی تو ہے کرم یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! The pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ remain patient despite being deprived of some blessings as if they never lost those blessings. Therefore, following in the footsteps of these personages we should also get into the habit of being patient on these troubles and express thanks for the blessings because these both practices are such great and beautiful habits due to which a person attains the great status and dignity like Siddiqiyyat.

Status of people having patience

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا has stated: The very first thing that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has recorded in ‘Lawh-e-Mahfuz’ is: I am Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ). No one other than Me is worthy to be worshipped. Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is My Rasool. One who accepts My decision and remains patient on the trouble I give him and expresses thanks for My blessings, I record him as ‘Siddeeq’ and will resurrect him with ‘Siddiqeen’. And the one who does not accept My decision and does not remain patient on the trouble I give him, and does not express thanks for My blessings, then he may make whoever he wants his Lord except Me. (Tafseer Qurtubi, part 30, Al-Burooj, Taht-al-Ayah: 22, vol. 10, pp. 210)

Regarding this blessed Hadees ‘Allamah Muhammad ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Every matter of a believer is amazing because every deed of a believer contains only goodness, whereas unbelievers and hypocrites do not have this virtue at all. If a believer attains health and safety, he expresses thanks. It is better for him because he is recorded amongst thankful people and when he receives anything painful, he remains patient and is recorded amongst the people [who have patience] who have been praised in the Holy Quran. As long as he is in trouble the doors of mercy remain open for him. So it is also better for him. Therefore, every believer should express thanks as he attains the blessings and should remain patient as he suffers from a trouble.

He should carry out the acts for which he has been commanded and should avoid the acts from which he has been forbidden.

(Fayd-ul-Qadeer, vol. 4, pp. 399, Taht-al-Hadees: 5382)

Dear Islamic brothers! If we ponder over ourselves it will become obvious to us that our whole body is the centre of the blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon us. For example, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed breathes upon us to stay alive, feet for walking, hands for holding, eyes for seeing, ears for hearing, nose for smelling, tongue for speaking, stomach for digesting food and many other blessings. Besides these, there are many other unique and countless blessings which we are enjoying day and night. But the question arises: Have we ever tried to fulfil the rights of these blessings by expressing thanks for them or مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ used them in the acts of disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and made ourselves deserving of the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Remember! The nations which indulged themselves in the pleasures of life by disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, were destroyed.

It is mentioned on page 27, volume 4 of Tafseer ‘ Siraat-ul-Jinaan ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

Divine Decree about nations’ rise and fall

It is the Divine Law that after granting a nation some blessings, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not change the blessing into torment unless the nation becomes unworthy of the blessing due to their evil deeds. This is the ultimate law for the rise and fall of the past and present nations, that expression of thanks and fulfilling the rights of blessings results in its increase and punishment is inflicted upon being unthankful.

Remember, this Divine law is not limited to non-Muslims, but if Muslims also act like them, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ takes His blessings back from them also and they fall into disgrace as well. The people who are well aware of Muslims’ rise and fall, know that as long as Muslims used the Divine blessings in the correct manner, they prospered and rose to power and great ‘superpowers’ of the world remained under their rule and non-Muslims used to tremble on hearing the names of Muslims. When Muslims stopped expressing thanks for the Divine

blessings and used them inappropriately, they started losing their strength and power over non-Muslims. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 4, pp. 27; slightly modified)

جو کچھ بھی ہیں سب اپنے ہی ہاتھوں کے ہیں کرتُوت

شکوہ ہے زمانے کا نہ قسمت کا گِلہ ہے

دیکھے ہیں یہ دن اپنی ہی غفلت کی بدولت

سچ ہے کہ بُرے کام کا انجام بُرا ہے

How should thanks be expressed for body parts?

Sayyiduna Muhammad Bin Haani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated with reference to a friend: Once someone asked Sayyiduna Abu Haazim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, ‘O Abu Haazim! How should thanks be expressed for the eyes?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘If you see something good with them then make it public and if you see something bad with them then conceal it.’ He humbly asked, ‘How should thanks be expressed for the ears?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘If you hear something good with them, memorize it and if you hear something bad then conceal it.’ He humbly asked, ‘How should thanks be expressed for the hands?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Do not get such thing [e.g., Haraam wealth, etc.] with them which is not permissible for you, and do not stop it from fulfilling the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ [such as Sadaqat-e-Wajibah, etc.]. He humbly asked, ‘How should thanks be expressed for the abdomen?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه responded, ‘The thanks for the abdomen is that it should have food in its lower part and the upper part should be filled with knowledge.’ He humbly asked, ‘How should thanks be expressed for the private parts?’ In reply to it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recited the following blessed Ayah (Surah Al-Mu`minoon in part 18):

وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِفُرُوْجِهِمْ حٰفِظُوْنَۙ(۵) اِلَّا عَلٰۤى اَزْوَاجِهِمْ اَوْ مَا مَلَكَتْ اَیْمَانُهُمْ فَاِنَّهُمْ غَیْرُ مَلُوْمِیْنَۚ(۶) فَمَنِ ابْتَغٰى وَرَآءَ ذٰلِكَ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْعٰدُوْنَۚ(۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And who guard their private organs. Except from their wives or the legal bondwomen that they possess, for then there is no blame upon them. So whoever desires more than these two - they are crossing the limits. (Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, Ayah 5, 6, 7)

He then asked, ‘How should thanks be expressed for the feet?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘If you see a living person of whom you feel envy, use these feet to perform deeds like he does (i.e. perform virtuous deeds) and if you see such a dead person who you are sick of, so prevent these feet from the deeds which he used to do (i.e. do not step forward towards evils). If you do this, you will become the one who thanks Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The person, who expresses only verbal thanks and not with other parts of his body, is like the one who has a piece of cloth and he takes hold of a corner of it, but does not wear it. This cloth will not be useful for him to stay safe from the heat, cold, snow and rain.’ (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 3, pp. 279, Hadees 3963)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to book ‘Shukr kay Fazaail’

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! When someone asked questions from the thankful pious saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyiduna Abu Haazim رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about expressing thanks for the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that is, thanks for the parts of body, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave extremely interesting answers full of advice to the questions. We should also act upon the Madani pearls of these precautions and pieces of advice and appreciating these blessings, we should only perform permissible deeds with these precious parts of body for the betterment of our grave and Hereafter. We should include ourselves amongst the thankful bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after protecting them from being used for bad deeds. Surely, all these are only possible when we appreciate the blessings in a real sense.

In order to know the value of blessings and to be blessed with the virtues and advantages of expressing thanks, it is very useful to study the book named,

‘ Shukr kay Fazaail ’ [Virtues of Thankfulness], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains pious saints’ manners of expressing thanks, methods of expressing thanks, parables of the people who express thanks, causes of increasing blessings, different Du’as, virtues of expressing thanks and punishment for un-thankfulness and many other faith-refreshing Madani pearls which persuade the reader to express thanks. So buy this book today from the stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and not only study it yourself, but also convince others to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the blessed and sacred lives of our pious predecessors are role model for us. The word of ‘un-thankfulness’ was never included in their dictionary, because these personages would appreciate blessings in a real manner. These Allah-loving people would never be heedless of remembering the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and expressing thanks for them. The manner of expressing thanks of these personages was so beautiful that when they would eat and drink (water etc.), wear or do anything, they would praise the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Sometimes they would spend their nights counting the favours of their Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ and this would continue until the next morning. For persuasion, let’s listen to the manner of expressing thanks of some pious predecessors and form the habit of thanking Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His blessings.

The reason for calling Sayyiduna Nuh ‘ عَبۡدًا شَكُوۡرًا ’

Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Mas’ood Saqafi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: (In the Holy Quran) Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام has been called as ‘ عَبۡدًا شَكُوۡرًا ’ (i.e. great thankful bondman) because whenever he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام wore a new dress or ate any food, he would thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 26)

Manner of expressing thanks of Sayyiduna ‘Ali

Sayyiduna Ibn Nabatah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم would go to the toilet, he would recite: ‘ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ الْحَافِظِ الْمُؤَدِّیْ ’ (i.e., in the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Protector and the Completer). After relieving himself, he would touch his blessed stomach with his hand and say: ‘ یَا لَہَا مِنْ نِّعْمَـۃٍ لَوْ یَعْلَـمُ الْعِبَـادُ شُـکْرَھَا ’ i.e., what a great blessing, would that people could know how to express thanks for it.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 113, Hadees 4468)

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri’s manner of expressing thanks

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say the following before starting a speech: All praise is due to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! O our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Thank You for creating us, [You] have provided us food, guided us, granted us knowledge, given us salvation and removed trouble from us. Thank You for the blessings of Islam and the Quran, thank You for the blessings of family, wealth, health and safety. You have disgraced our enemies, increased our sustenance, granted dominance to this Ummah, gathered us who were scattered, blessed us with best health and safety. O our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You have granted us whatever we asked You for. So, we are extremely grateful to You for this. We thank You for every blessing You have bestowed upon us, whether it is new or old, hidden or visible, general or especial, remaining or finished, present or absent; we thank You until You are pleased, and when You are pleased even then we thank You. (Shukr kay Fazaail, pp. 24)

Kept mentioning blessings whole night long

Sayyiduna Ibn Abi Hawaari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said that one night Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad and Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی talked to each other about the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ until the morning. Sayyiduna Sufyan Bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would say: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed these blessings upon us, those blessings upon us, granted us these favours, granted us those favours (this continued till morning). (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 110, Hadees 4456)

‘Masjid Dars’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Have you noticed! How brilliantly our pious predecessors would remember the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and would talk about them the whole night. Therefore, instead of being lost in worldly colourfulness and spending time in the company of thankless people, we should have the company of such people by virtue of the blessing of whom we may be blessed with the passion to appreciate the blessings and express thanks for them. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this critical age, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami gives us the mindset of expressing thanks for the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the mindset of appreciating them in a real sense.

Taking the advantage of it, we should associate ourselves with this Madani environment and should try to take part actively in the 12 Madani activities. One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘Masjid Dars’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, those who give Masjid Dars and listen to it are privileged to gain and impart Islamic knowledge. The greatness of these acts can be judged by these 2 Ahadees:

1. The best Sadaqah is that a Muslim gains knowledge and then imparts it to his Islamic brother. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 158, Hadees 243)

When you pass by the gardens of Paradise, pick some things up. It was asked, ‘What are the gardens of Paradise.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The gatherings of knowledge.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 78, Hadees 11158)

Let’s listen to a parable of Masjid Dars for persuasion.

Adorned ‘Imamah by the blessing of Dars

Once a Madani Qafilah visited Sukkur, Bab-ul-Islam Sindh. An Islamic brother delivered Madani Dars after Salah, and in his Dars, he mentioned Sunan of drinking water. In the end of the Madani Dars, he mentioned the disadvantages of drinking water in the standing position. An elderly man who was also attending the Madani Dars began to weep. He expressed his feelings in this way: I have spent a big part of my life but I regret, I did not know about these Sunan. Now, though I am close to death I am not aware of the blessed Sunan of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . How will I be able to recognize the

Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in my grave? That elderly man was too weak to stand without anyone’s support اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he was deeply impressed by Dawat-e-Islami and adorned his head with ‘Imamah.

اے بیمارِ عِصیاں تُو آجا یہاں پر گُناہوں کی دیگا دوا مَدَنی ماحول

شِفائیں ملیں گی بَلائیں ٹلیں گی یقیناً ہے برکت بھرا مدنی ماحول

گنہگارو آؤ سِیَہ کارو آؤ گناہوں کو دیگا چُھڑا مدنی ماحول

یہاں سُنّتیں سیکھنے کو ملیں گی دِلائے گا خوفِ خدا مدنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some punishments for being unthankful for the blessings, in order to avoid the habit of un-thankfulness in the light of the sayings of pious predecessors.

Punishment for being unthankful

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: Stay safe from the decline of blessings as the one that is lost cannot be gained again. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further said: When you start gaining blessings from here and there, do not cease its continuation from you by being unthankful. (Deen-o-Dunya ki Anokhi Baatayn, pp. 515)

Sayyiduna Mugheerah Bin Sho’bah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The one who bestows blessings upon you, you thank him and the one who thanks you, you grant him the blessing because blessing does not remain available due to un-thankfulness and blessing is never lost due to expressing thanks. (Deen-o-Dunya ki Anokhi Baatayn, pp. 514)

Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Aaishah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It has been narrated that when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows a blessing upon a bondman and he acts unjustly and oppressively about the blessing, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ surely ends the blessing to him. (Deen-o-Dunya ki Anokhi Baatayn, pp. 516)

Sayyiduna Ka’b رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses someone in the world with bounties, he then thanks Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the blessing and becomes humble for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to this blessing, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gives him benefit from the blessing in this world and elevates his ranks in the Hereafter and the person whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses with the bounties in the world and he does not express thanks and nor does he become humble for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ stops the benefit of this blessing from him in the world and opens a Tabaq (cover) of Hell for him and if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will torment him (in the Hereafter) or He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive him.

(Rasaail Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 3, pp. 555, Hadees 93)

Majlis Al-Madinah Library

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you listen! How destructive it is to commit the sin of being unthankful following the path of Satan instead of expressing thanks for the blessings Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon us.

Due to the curse of having no appreciation and being unthankful for the blessings, we not only get deprived of the blessings, but rather this deed may lead us to Hell.

Therefore, we should not only thank Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in prosperity, but should also protect ourselves from un-thankfulness in times of poverty, tension, illness and troubles, keeping in mind the other blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Remember! Keeping yourself occupied with the Islamic activities after being associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, is a best way to get rid of the evil of un-thankfulness.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is busy presenting the call towards righteousness for serving Islam in more than 103 departments across the world. One of these departments is ‘Majlis Al-Madinah Library’. Spreading Islamic knowledge and making people aware of the correct Islamic teachings are the basic aims of this Majlis. Computers/LCDs have been arranged to watch and listen to Sunnah-inspiring audio and video speeches, Madani Muzakarahs and Madani Channel for study in a pleasant environment in Al-Madinah Library situated [except Masjid and Fana-e-Masjid] of different Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah).

The devotees of Rasool who cannot afford to buy books and booklets for study or they are deprived of watching Madani Channel due to some reasons, can study these books and booklets through ‘Al-Madinah Library’. Through the programs of Madani Channel, a 100% Islamic channel, we can also gain the precious wealth of Islamic knowledge.

Books and booklets, CDs and VCDs and memory cards, etc., of Ameer-e-Ahl-e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and the Islamic scholars of Ahl-us-Sunnah consisting of different topics can be placed in ‘Al-Madinah Library’ for the Isal-e-Sawab of the deceased. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless Majlis Al-Madinah Library with success and further progress!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Few methods of showing thankfulness

Dear Islamic brothers! We have heard about the blessings of thankfulness and warnings of punishments for un-thankfulness. Hopefully, we would have developed a Madani mindset of showing thankfulness and refraining ourselves from un-thankfulness. But remember! In order to act upon and to gain steadfastness according to this righteous thinking, it is quite necessary that people know some methods of expressing their gratitude. Therefore, let’s! Listen to some methods of expressing gratitude so that by virtue of its blessing, we become thankful bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

1. Read about thankfulness

Whenever you have opportunity, read the book and booklets authored by ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and other books and booklets produced by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, you will obtain immense treasure of knowledge and have mindset of expressing gratitude for the blessings bestowed by All ah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! To receive more virtues, advantages and interesting information about gratefulness, read the book named, ‘ Shukr kay Fazaail ’ [Virtues of Thankfulness], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. Also read ‘ Ihya-ul-‘Uloom ’ authored by Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Buy these remarkable books from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and besides reading them yourself, also motivate other Islamic brothers to read them. You can also read them online or download for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

2. Look at the people who have lower status than you

For developing the habit of showing thankfulness, look at the people who have lower status than you and make up your mind in this way that I have abundance of blessings and various comforts bestowed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whereas so and so is handicapped suffering from diseases and experiencing worries. And so and so does not have even his own house or vehicle or good dress and even he is dependent on others for a single meal or two.

3. Ponder over blessings

For developing the habit of showing gratitude, ponder over the abundance of blessings and favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created us in the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and by virtue of the spiritual connection of blessed companions, Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, righteous people, Ahl-us-Sunnah scholars and Murshid Kareem, we have been blessed with great blessings such as Madani environment, Glorious Quran, sacred nights and days, sacred cities like Makkah and Madinah, Masajid, Madaris, Jami’aat, parents, siblings, body parts, wisdom and intellect, sand, light, house, employment, winter, summer, autumn, spring, earth, sky, mountain, moon, sun, sleep, health, vegetable, animals, plants, rain, day and night etc. If we do not get any particular blessing, we forget all other blessings. We should not be thankless to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in anyway .

4. Express thankfulness through body parts

Along with tongue, we should express thankfulness through our other body parts such as hand, feet and eyes etc., too that only righteous and permissible acts should be committed though our body parts; we should refrain ourselves from impermissible and forbidden acts even we should refrain our body parts from useless acts. Sayyiduna Ziyad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه narrated: Upon the one who obtains a blessing, one right of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is that he should not commit disobedience through that blessing . (Tareekh Madinah Dimashq, vol. 19, pp. 191)

5. Patience upon hardship

We should cultivate the habit of showing patience in the times of hardship too. For example thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we have not been suffering any fatal disease or trouble. Even our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to become happy upon facing the hardships .

Once Sayyiduna Fath Mawsili رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered from headache, he became delighted and said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon me that illness, which the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام used to experience and as thankfulness, I will offer 400 Nafl (supererogatory) Salah. (152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat, pp. 171)

6. Travel with Madani Qafilah

Travel with Madani Qafilah for 3 days each month and make habit of filling out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily practicing Fikr-e-Madinah (Madani contemplation) and submit it on the first date of every Madani month, to the Zimmahdar (relevant representative of Dawat-e-Islami) of your locality as well as develop the habit of attending weekly Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarah so that you can have a good company and by the virtue of such righteous company you will have privilege to be amongst the thankful bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

7. Keep watching Madani Channel

Watch Madani channel regularly, it will help inculcate the habit of showing thankfulness in us, upon the blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Birth and death of Attar’s beloved

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we are in the sacred month of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam. The 21 st date of this month is the ‘day’ of Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat, Haji Zam Zam Attari. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in Hyderabad, the city of Bab-ul-Islam (Sindh) on 10 th September, 1965 (14 Jumadal Awwal, 1385 AH). At the age of 20 he associated himself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه included himself amongst the slaves of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه through Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه actively used to participate in the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami and became the member of the central Majlis-e-Shura of Dawat-e-Islami on 30 th October, 2004 [15 th Ramadan, 1425 AH]. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه continued to perform Madani activities for many years. After suffering from a disease for a long time on 8 th October, 2012, in the midnight of Monday and Tuesday around 11:45 pm he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away in Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi). اِنَّا لِلہِ وَ اِنَّآ اِلَیْہِ رٰجِعُوْنَ

Distinguished characteristics of Tajdar-e-Madani In’amaat

Haji Zam Zam Attari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a pious and Sunnah practicing believer. He was renowned for his matchless services for Madani In’amaat. He was a paradigm of patience, excellent character, humility and generosity. The distinctive traits like visiting the sick, helping the poor were the part of his personality attributes. He was very gentle. He would make apology to his children and even he would not feel ashamed making apology to his wife. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was incredibly obedient to his mother, true devotee of Peer-o-Murshid (spiritual guide) and even ‘ فَنَا فیِ الشَّیخ ’ and was a true disciple.

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a keen interest in learning Islamic teachings, attending Madani Muzakarah and was a strict follower of Madani In’amaat. His happiness would know no bound when any new book or booklet would publish from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Not only would he read himself but also encourage others to do so. He would observe Qufl-e-Madinah of the parts of body

especially eyes and tongue and would make written communication and use glasses of Qufl-e-Madinah.

For getting more information about the life-history of this beloved devotee of Attar, read 208-page book ‘ Mahboob-e-Attar ki 122 Hikayaat ’. Buy this remarkable book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and read it. This book can also be read online from Dawat-e-Islami website: www.dawateislami.net, can be downloaded for free and can also be printed out.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have had the privilege of listening to the ways of appreciating the blessings and expressing thanks for them. We have heard that only the acts of obedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should be carried out with these blessings; the same thing we have learnt from the blessed life of pious predecessors.

The blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are so much that cannot be counted by anyone.

Expressing thanks for blessings, remembering them, praising them and refraining from being unthankful in every circumstance have been the favourite practices of the righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

By virtue of the blessing of expressing thanks for the blessings, a bondman attains the status of Siddiqiyyat.

By virtue of the blessing of expressing thanks for the blessings a person is recorded amongst thankful people.

Expressing thanks for the blessings brings about the success of nations.

Expressing thanks for the blessings brings about the increase in the blessing, whereas being unthankful brings about the end of the blessing.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to appreciate blessings in a real manner, express thanks for them and protect us from the destructions of un-thankfulness!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me, will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners of Miswak

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of using a Miswak, from the booklet namely, ‘ 163 Madani Pearls ’, authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

First of all, two sayings of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Two Rak’aat offered after using Miswak are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without [using] Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 18)

Make use of the Miswak necessary upon yourselves, because in this lies the cleanliness of the mouth and a cause for (attaining) the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 438, Hadees 5869)

On page 288 of the first volume of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned that the honourable scholars have said: Whoever routinely

uses the Miswak, will be blessed with the good fortune of reciting the Kalimah (fundamental article of faith) at the time of death, and whoever consumes opium, will not be blessed with the Kalimah at the time of death.

1. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that Miswak has 10 qualities: (Some of them are that) It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, removes phlegm, removes bad smell of the mouth; it is in accordance with the Sunnah; the angels become happy and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased.

2. Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Four things increase the intellect: (1) Refraining from useless conversations (2) The use of the Miswak (3) The company of the pious people (4) Acting upon your [religious] knowledge.

3. Miswak should be of a twig of arak, olive, Neem, or of any other tree having a bitter taste.

4. The thickness of Miswak should be equal to the thickness of the little finger.

5. Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands, as it is a means of acting upon the Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ وَسَلِّمْ وَبَارِکْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدِ نِ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ

الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِالْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَصَحْبِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَمَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّعَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّد

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَامُحَمَّدٍعَدَدَمَافِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہ ِ صَلَاۃً دَآئِمَۃً ۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْکِ اللّٰہ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمّدٍکَمَا تُحِبُّ وَتَرْضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّاَنۡزِلۡہُ الۡمَقۡعَدَ الۡمُقَرَّبَ عِنۡدَکَ یَوۡمَ الۡقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَّا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّااللہُ الْحَلِیْمُ الْـکَرِیْمُ ،سُبحٰنَ اللہ ِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَرَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِیْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

