اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Parables of Allah-loving People

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Fatawa Shaami: ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Durood

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃً لَہ ُ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

‘The one who recites Salat upon me on Friday, I will intercede for him on the Judgement Day.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a Muslim is better than his deed .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Madani pearl

For righteous and permissible work the more we make good intentions, the more we attain reward.

Intentions of listening to Bayan

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4. After the Ijtima’, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of Rasool! In today’s weekly Bayan, let’s listen to the parables about Allah-loving people and Madani pearls about them.

Spiritual conversation of a worshipper

On page 211 of ‘ Hikayatayn or Naseehatayn ’, a published book of Maktaba-tul- Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, it is stated: Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Once I was strolling on a mountain. While strolling I passed through a valley that had many trees, plants and fruits. I started pondering over the greatness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and

beauty of the things which He created. Suddenly I heard a voice that moved me to tears and increased my devotion. I went after the voice and reached the lower part of the mountain near a cave. The voice was coming from [inside] the cave. I went inside the cave and found a worshipper who was very weak but looking blessed. I heard him saying: Pure is He Who has made the hearts of devotees alive in His court through Du’as; now they only trust in Him and He has chosen them for His love so now they only wish for Him. When he felt my presence, I said: ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکَ ’! He replied: ‘ وَعَلَیْکَ السَّلَام ’. He asked me: Who told you the address of the person that has been away from people by the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and who could not have good conversation due to the accountability of his Nafs? I replied: I have come to you due to the curiosity of knowing something about pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . He said: O young man! Undoubtedly, there are some bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whose real love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has impact on their hearts. Due to their having great love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ their souls go around in the world of angels and see the great treasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes them observe His beauty. They see it in a way that their hearts are filled with His [Allah’s] love and their souls keep flying to meet Him. They are the kings of the world and the Hereafter. He then started weeping and made the Du’a: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Also enable me to perform the deeds like these blessed saints and also join me with them. He then cried loudly and fell onto the ground and then passed away. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! These are the attributes of Allah-fearing people and the signs of those who recognize Him.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In Ayah 165 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 2, it is stated:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوْۤا اَشَدُّ حُبًّا لِّلّٰهِؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And for the believers, no one’s love is equal to the love of Allah. (Part 2, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 165)

About the above-mentioned blessed Ayah it is stated in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 1, page 264: The beloved bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ love Allah more than all creatures. Living and dying for the love of Allah Almighty is the aim of their lives.

All the following acts such as preferring the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to every pleasure of ours, instead of sleeping in soft beds performing Sajdah to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, weeping by remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having thirst for attaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, performing worship in the long winter nights and keeping Siyam in the long summer days, having love and enmity for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, giving someone something and stopping something from someone for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being grateful for His blessings, being patient upon distress, having trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in every circumstance, leaving every matter to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, being ready all the time to act upon the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping the heart free from being devoted to anyone else, being obedient to the beloveds of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, showing true devotion to Allah’s most Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from the bottom of the heart, reciting the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, getting close to the pious believers of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having devotion towards them, having their company for increasing love for Allah Almighty, showing reverence to them and hundreds of acts other than these are such which are the evidence and requisites for Divine love. (Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, pp. 264)

Dear Islamic brothers! These are the requisites of having love for Allah Almighty. If someone claims to have Divine love, how should he spend his days and nights? His head should be bowed in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; he should keep on weeping in the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; heart should be restless for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; he should spend his days in observing Sawm and nights in performing worship.

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely we should also try to develop Divine love. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to His Nabi Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O Dawood (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)! If you want to love Me, dispel the love of the world from your heart because love for Me and for the world cannot gather in one heart. O Dawood! Whoever loves Me offers Tahajjud in the night for Me while people are

sleeping; he remembers Me in private when heedless people remain heedless of My Zikr [remembrance]; he thanks for My blessing whereas those - who forget - forget Me. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 8, pp. 211, Raqm 11906)

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

O devotees of blessed saints! Now let’s listen to some more parables about the pious bondmen who would love Allah Almighty.

Ram hide

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saw Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin ‘Umayr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ coming in the state that a ram hide was wrapped around his back, so he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Look at the person whose heart Allah Almighty has illuminated. Undoubtedly, I saw him with his parents who would give him best food and excellent Sharbat (soft-drink) to drink. He has got into this state by virtue of the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) which you can see. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 153, Hadees 343)

Devotee will be with his beloved

A Bedouin came to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! When will be the Judgement Day? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: What preparations have you made for it? He humbly replied: For it I have not accumulated too many [Nafl] Salah and [Nafl] Siyam, however, I love Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to him: ‘ اَلْمَرْءُ مَعَ مَنْ اَحَبَّ ’ i.e. A person will be with the one whom he loves. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 172, Hadees 2392)

(The blessed companion who has narrated this blessed Hadees) Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Since I embraced Islam, I have not seen Muslims feeling so much happy for any other thing, but this.

(Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 4, pp. 398, Hadees 13066)

You are pious

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام passed by three men whose bodies were weak and colour was changed. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: What has brought you to this state? They humbly replied: Fear of the fire of Hell. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: It is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to protect Allah-fearing people from the Hell. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then passed by three other people who were weaker than the previous ones and their colour was changed more than them. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked them: What has brought you to this state? They replied: Yearning for Paradise. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said: It is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to bestow the thing upon you which you desire. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then passed by three other people who were weaker and their colour changed more than the previous both groups and their faces were like the mirrors of Noor. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said to them: What has brought you to this state? They replied: We love Allah Almighty. Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said three times: You also have more closeness to Allah Almighty.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O devotees of pious saints! Just ponder! This is the state of Allah-loving people when they are in Divine love! These great personages greatly take care of the rights of Allah Almighty and His bondmen. They greatly love virtuous deeds and hate sins. Abundance of Divine worship weakens them and changes their colour. On the other hand, today, a large number of people have become non-practising. They neither take care of the rights of people, nor have any sense of guilt for the violation of the Rights of Allah Almighty. For Nafs, performing good deeds has become very difficult, whereas committing sins has become very easy. Empty Masajid and overcrowded places of entertainment [where men and women are mixed] are deeply hurting the feelings of sincere and true Muslims. The people who misuse TV, internet and social media are not less in number. The excessive struggle for the fulfilment of needs and attainment of facilities has made vast majority of Muslims utterly heedless of their Hereafter.

Countless sins are fearlessly committed in our society like swearing, slandering, having low opinion for someone, backbiting, tale-telling, finding faults with others, disclosing the faults of others, lying, making false

promises, defrauding, causing anyone pain without a Shar’i reason, not paying off debt, not returning the borrowed thing of someone, calling Muslims with bad names, using someone’s possession without his permission despite him resenting it, drinking, gambling, stealing, fornicating, watching movies and dramas, listening to songs and music, giving and taking interest and bribes, disobeying and troubling parents, being unfaithful to trust [Amanat], unlawful gazing, women adopting masculine styles and men adopting feminine styles, women’s act of un-veiling, arrogance, jealousy, showing off, bearing enmity and hatred towards any Muslim, going beyond the bounds of Shari’ah in anger, lust for sins, being stingy, considering yourself to be better, etc. Despite this we are in the vain hope that we have true love and devotion to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Just ponder! Are these the speaking styles, life styles and characters of the one who has true love for Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May we also be blessed for the Sadqah of those who have true Divine love! May we also become the ones who follow in the footsteps of these blessed personages and acting upon the Madani In’aam offer all Salahs in the Masjid with Jama’at in the first row with the first Takbeer! May we become the ones who observe Nafl Siyam along with the Fard Siyam of sacred Ramadan! May we always speak the truth, become well-mannered and fulfil the rights of parents and other relatives! May we do not go even near the sins and miss any of our Salah! May we do not miss any Sawm of Ramadan! May we not tell lies, commit backbiting, tale-telling and abuse any one at all! May we be blessed with the real love and sympathy for Muslims for the sake of Allah Almighty and may we get rid of backbiting! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a of Sayyiduna Dawood for Divine love

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain the real love of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ we should also follow the blessed life of Allah-loving people. In addition, we should also make Du’a for Divine love. Despite worshiping too much, having Divine love

and being a great Nabi of Allah Almighty Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would ask Allah Almighty for His love.

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would make this Du’a: اَللّٰہُمَّ اِنِّیْ اَسْئَلُکَ حُبَّکَ وَحُبَّ مَنْ یُّحِبُّکَ وَالْعَمَلِ الَّذِیْ یُبَلِّغُنِیْ حُبَّک ’ i.e. O Allah Almighty! I ask You for Your love, the love of Your beloved ones, and for the deeds which lead me to Your love. ‘ اَللّٰہُمَّ اجْعَلْ حُبَّکَ اَحَبَّ اِلَیَّ مِنْ نَفْسِیْ وَمَالِیْ وَاَہْلِیْ وَمِنَ الْمَاءِ الْبَارِدِ ’ i.e. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make Your love dearer to me than my life and wealth, family members and cold water. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 465, Hadees 2496)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! The beloved Nabi of Allah Almighty Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His love, therefore we should also make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for His love. Believe me! Divine love is such a great blessing which if someone gets, he will be blessed with the pleasure of worship and sweetness of faith.

Sweetness of faith

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ ثَلاَثٌ مَنْ کُنَّ فِیْہِ وَجَدَ بِہِنَّ حَلَاوَۃَ اْلاِیْمَانِ ’ i.e. the person who has three habits will attain the sweetness of faith through them. (1) ‘ اَنْ یَّکُوْنَ اللّٰہُ وَرَسُوْلُہُ اَحَبَّ اِلَیْہِ مِمَّا سِوَاہُمَا ’ He loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the most. (2) ‘ وَاَنْ یُّحِبَّ الْمَرْءَ لَا یُحِبُّہٗ اِلَّا لِلّٰہِ ’, If he loves someone, he loves for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. (3) ‘ وَاَنْ یَّکْرَہَ اَنْ یَّعُوْدَ فِی الْکُفْرِ کَمَا یَکْرَہُ اَنْ یُوْقَدَ لَہٗ نَارٌ فَیُقْذَفَ فِیْہَا ’ He hates Kufr as much as a person hates to be thrown into blazing fire.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 364, Hadees 405)

Dear Islamic brothers! You must have heard that loving Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than everything of the universe and loving or hating someone else mainly for the pleasure of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are great blessings for a Muslim. If someone gets these blessings, he is blessed with the real sweetness of faith.

Rather the fact is that the fortunate Muslims who instead of their personal benefits and worldly purpose, are on good terms with each other and are devoted to each other only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, they not only get the sweetness of faith, but Allah Almighty is also pleased with them, loves them and will bestow very great status upon them on the Judgement Day. Let’s listen to more narrations about it.

One who becomes beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ!

Sayyiduna Laahiq Bin Hameed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna Qays Bin ‘Ubbad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: A person went to meet his brother for the sake of Allah Almighty. On the way, he met an unknown person who asked him where he was going. He replied that he was going to meet so-and-so [person]. The unknown person asked: Are you going to meet him because there is any relationship between you and him? He replied in the negative. He asked: Are you going to return the favour which he has done to you? He replied in the negative and said: I only love him for the pleasure of Allah Almighty. The unknown person said: Allah Almighty has sent me to you so that I tell you that Allah Almighty loves you because you love a Muslim for His [Allah’s] pleasure. (Allah Walon ki Baatayn, vol. 3, pp. 164)

Sayyiduna ‘ Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, there are some people who are neither Ambiya nor martyrs but, on the Day of Judgement, even blessed Ambiya عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and martyrs will envy (رشک) them seeing their status in the court of Allah Almighty. People humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Tell us who those people will be.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: They will be the people who would have devotion for each other out of the love for Allah Almighty though they will not be the relatives of each other nor will there be any business dealing between them. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! [On the Day of Judgement,] Their faces will be Noor-like; surely they will be on Noor. They will be fearless when all people will be fearful, and they will feel no grief when people will feel grief.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 219, Hadees 5012)

Similarly, it has been stated in another narration: They will belong to different cities and tribes and will have no relationship with each other. They will love and have friendship with each other only for the sake of Allah Almighty. On the Judgement Day, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will lay the pulpits of Noor and will sit them on them [pulpits]. Their faces and clothes will be of Noor. On the Judgement Day, people will be frightened, but they would not be fearful. (Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 450, Hadees 22969)

O the devotees of pious saints! Have you noticed! Allah Almighty will bestow great glory and greatness upon the ones who love Him [Allah Almighty] and who love others for His [Allah’s] pleasure. On the Day of Judgement, when there will be a state of utter selfishness, people will be worried, but those fortunate people will have no grief and worry and they will be warmly welcomed. For them Allah Almighty will place a throne [made] of Noor and will sit them on the seat of respect.

Therefore, we should also develop the love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for Divine pleasure and should make their pleasure the principle for our friendship and enmity. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for this purpose, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is the best source. In this Madani environment, not only is the love of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم developed, but also the Madani mind-set to have friendship with only the friends of Allah Almighty is given. By virtue of the blessing of this Madani environment, the passion of devotion and sympathy is developed for Muslims and the curiosity of reforming the Muslims of the entire world along with one’s own personal reformation is developed for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, you also stay associated with this Madani environment [of Dawat-e-Islami] all the time and participate practically in the 12 Madani activities in order to develop Divine love further, propagate Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, protect yourself and other Muslims from sins and guide them to the virtuous path.

‘Madani Halqah after Fajr’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! One daily Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Madani Halqah after Fajr. At Madani Halqah after Fajr, three Quranic Ayahs are recited along with the translation from Kanz-ul-Iman and Tafseer-e-Khaza`in-ul-Irfan, or Tafseer Noor-ul-‘Irfan or Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat (4 pages) is given and at the end Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah is read and heard. After this some Awraad and Wazaaif (invocations) from Shajarah are read and the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht are also offered.

In order to get detailed information about this daily Madani activity, ‘Madani Halqah after Fajr’, out of 12 Madani activities study the booklet, ‘Madani Halqah after Fajr’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. All the Islamic brothers must study this booklet. This booklet is not only available at the stalls of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, but it can also be read from the website of Dawat-e-Islami.

By virtue of the blessing of this booklet you will be able to read:

٭ What is ‘Madani Halqah after Fajr’?

٭ Method of setting up the Madani Halqah

٭ Madani Halqahs of pious predecessors

٭ Explanation of the daily activities of Madani Halqahs

٭ Useful things about Faizan-e-Sunnat

٭ Blessings of reading blessed Shajarah

٭ Advantages of Du’a

٭ Blessings of Ishraq and Chasht

٭ Advantages of setting up a Madani Halqah

٭ Few precautions of setting up a Madani Halqah, etc.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of Madani Halqah one gets the reward of sitting in the Masjid. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Halqah after Fajr one is privileged to recite the Holy Quran and listen to the recitation of the Holy Quran. Madani Halqah after Fajr is the best source of understanding the

Holy Quran with its translation and Tafseer (commentary). By virtue of the blessing of Madani Halqah after Fajr one acts upon Madani In’amaat. By virtue of the blessing of Madani Halqah after Fajr one gets the opportunity to offer the Nawafil of Ishraq and Chasht.

In the Madani Halqah after Fajr, one is privileged to read and listen to the blessed Shajarah consisting of blessed Zikr about pious predecessors. Doing Zikr about pious personages brings about mercy. Sayyiduna Sufyan bin ‘Uyaynah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Mercy descends at the time of the Zikr about righteous people. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 7, pp. 335, Raqm 10750)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessed Shajarah consisting of the blessed Zikr about pious personages pending matters of many devotees of Rasool are resolved. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani Parable and rejoice.

Domestic quarrels came to an end

An Islamic sister from Babul Madinah (Karachi) had domestic quarrels at home. Quarrels would continue quite often due to which there had been no peace of mind in the home. She was very worried because of this situation. She could not find any way through which peace could be established in the home. In the meantime, by the kind attention of Peer-o-Murshid Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ a thought entered her mind that she should read Shajarah Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah. She started reading the Shajarah with the intention to overcome domestic quarrels. By virtue of the blessing of reading Shajarah, Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah, Ziyaiyyah, Attariyyah their domestic quarrels came to an end and the home became peaceful.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! A Muslim should love Allah Almighty more than anything because therein lies the sign and sweetness of faith. Surely, every one of us claims, ‘I love my Lord [Allah Almighty] very much’, but unfortunately our deeds are contrary to it, that is, our character is totally denying this claim of ours. Through our practical condition it seems that we are not devoted to our Creator even as much as we are devoted to people. A

wise person has said: Busy yourself in carrying out the good acts; otherwise you will get indulged in bad acts. Unfortunately, nowadays a large number of people have busied themselves in the bad acts in such a way that they do not pay any attention to the good acts. People have started getting worried for this world in a way that they have stopped worrying about the Hereafter; they have fallen into the love of wealth in a way that they have become totally heedless of the accountability which will be made on the Day of Judgement; they have fallen into the love of creation in a way that they have forgotten to remember Allah Almighty; they have fallen into the love of sins in a way that they have forgotten to repent; they have started getting worried to have splendid houses constructed in a way that they have stopped paying attention to make the Hereafter better.

Just ponder for a while! What we had to do and what we are doing! Ponder! Isn’t it the age about which our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم warned us by giving us the news centuries ago!

Desire for five and heedlessness of five

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

(سَيَأۡتِيۡ زَمَانٌ عَلٰي اُمَّتِيۡ يُحِبُّوۡنَ خَمۡسًا وَّ يَنۡسَوۡنَ خَمۡسًا)

An era will soon come upon my Ummah when they will love five and will forget five:

1. (يُحِبُّوۡنَ الدُّنۡيَا وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡاٰخِرَةَ): They will love the world and will forget the Hereafter.

2. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡمَالَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡحِسَابَ): They will love wealth and will forget [the Hereafter’s] accountability.

3. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡخَلۡقَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡخَالِقَ): They will love creation and will forget the Creator.

4. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡذُّنُوۡبَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ التَّوۡبَةَ): They will love sins and will forget repentance.

5. (وَ يُحِبُّوۡنَ الۡقُصُوۡرَ وَ يَنۡسَوۡنَ الۡمَقۡبَرَةَ): They will love palaces and will forget the graveyard.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 34)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

7 Signs of Divine love

Dear Islamic brothers! For developing Divine love, let’s listen to seven signs of ‘Divine love’ in the light of the Holy Quran and blessed Hadees and sayings of pious personages:

1. Reciting Glorious Quran, reading its translation and commentary, and understanding it are the signs of Divine love. When pious people of Allah Almighty listen to His Kalam and ponder over it, tears start streaming from their eyes. In Ayah 83 of Surah Al-Ma’idah, part 7, Allah Almighty has stated:

وَ اِذَا سَمِعُوْا مَاۤ اُنْزِلَ اِلَى الرَّسُوْلِ تَرٰۤى اَعْیُنَهُمْ تَفِیْضُ مِنَ الدَّمْعِ مِمَّا عَرَفُوْا مِنَ الْحَقِّۚ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And when they hear to what has come down to the Messenger (Rasool Muhammad), you see their eyes overflowing with tears because they have recognised the truth. (Part 7, Surah Al-Ma`idah, Ayah 83)

Sayyiduna Sahl bin Abdullah Tustari رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Having love for Allah Almighty is to love the Holy Quran; the sign of having love for Allah Almighty and the Holy Quran is to love the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sign of having love for Sunnah is to love the Hereafter.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 71)

2 . Another sign of having Divine love is to perform Nawafil [supererogatory acts] along with Faraaid [obligatory acts]. It is the act which makes one [the one who loves] the favourite and the beloved bondman of Allah Almighty.

Source of Divine closeness

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Allah Almighty has said, ‘Whoever bears enmity to any of my Wali [saint], I declare war against him. My bondman does not attain so much of My closeness by means of any other thing as much he attains from Faraaid [obligatory acts]. My bondman always continues to attain closeness by means of Nawafil [supererogatory acts] until I love him. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

3 . Another sign of Divine love is to remain busy with the Zikr of Allah Almighty. It is also a source of attaining the Divine love. Allah Almighty has stated:

یٰۤاَیُّهَا الَّذِیْنَ اٰمَنُوا اذْكُرُوا اللّٰهَ ذِكْرًا كَثِیْرًاۙ(۴۱) وَّ سَبِّحُوْهُ بُكْرَةً وَّ اَصِیْلًا(۴۲)

؎ Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O Believers! Remember Allah abundantly. And Glorify Him, morning and evening. (Part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah, 41, 42)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ اَحَبَّ شَیْأً اَکْثَرَ ذِکْرَہٗ ’ he who loves somebody, mostly talks about him. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 1, pp. 217, Hadees 1825)

Sayyiduna Abul Hasan Zanjaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Worship is based on 3 things: ‘eye’, ‘heart’ and ‘tongue’. Eye should be for admonition, heart for contemplation and the tongue should be the centre of truth and for the Zikr (remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and Tasbih. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 71)

Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I saw ground Sattu with Sayyiduna Shaykh Jurjaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and asked: Why don’t you eat anything except Sattu (grain parched and coarsely ground and drunk with water and sugar).

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: In comparison to chewing food and drinking Sattu, I have observed the difference of 70 Tasbihat (i.e., the time consumed in drinking Sattu is shorter to eating food to the extent that I can recite 70 Tasbihat in that duration). I have not eaten roti (bread) for 40 years so that I do not lose time for these Tasbihat. (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 72)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

4 . Another sign of Divine love is to sacrifice your choice for the pleasure of Allah Almighty despite having the desires of Nafs.

Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Worshipping Allah Almighty is the name of three things: (1) ‘Abiding by the laws of Shar’iah’ (2) ‘being content with the decisions and division made by Allah Almighty and (3) ‘sacrificing the desires of your Nafs for the pleasure of Allah Almighty.’ (Baytay ko Naseehat, pp. 37)

Sayyiduna Sari Saqati رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to say: My Nafs has had the desire to eat honey for 40 years, but I have not fulfilled its desire yet.

(Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 163)

5 . Another sign of Divine love is to keep your heart totally submitted in the blessed court of Allah Almighty after having removed the love for the world from it.

It has been narrated: Allah Almighty sent revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام: O Isa! When the heart of a bondman becomes free and clean from the love of the world and the Hereafter, I fill it with My love.

6 . Another sign of Divine love is to refrain from all the acts which become obstacle in the way of attaining the closeness to Allah Almighty.

Sayyiduna Zunnoon Misri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Another sign of the one who loves Allah Almighty is that he gives up every such thing that makes him heedless of the Zikr [remembrance] of Allah Almighty and keeps himself busy performing the acts which please Allah Almighty. (Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer, pp. 78)

7 . Another sign of Divine love is to follow in the footsteps of the pious people - who have true love for Allah Almighty - and to have their company.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: One should always have the company that develops the yearning for worship and enthusiasm for acting upon blessed Sunnah. A friend should be the one who makes you remember Allah Almighty when you see him, whose conversation encourages you to perform virtuous deeds, reduces love for the world and increases love for the Hereafter. A friend should be the one by virtue of whom you develop more love for Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should avoid the company of those who carry out non-serious activities, love fashion and do not offer Salah.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Dear Islamic brothers! For increasing Divine love, attaining Divine pleasure, developing fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart, increasing the enthusiasm to protect faith, frightening yourself to the torment of grave and Hell, giving up the habit of committing sins, making yourself acting upon Sunnah regularly, developing the love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart and increasing yearning for becoming the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus it is quite necessary to have good environment and the company of pious people because under such terrible condition of our today’s society, many people are committing sins abundantly. In this deteriorating situation, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is not less than any great blessing, so you should also keep associated with this Madani environment all the time.

Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in this critical age, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is spreading Divine love and devotion to Rasool along with serving Islam by spreading Sunnah in approximately 107 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Madrasa-tul-Madinah’. Under the supervision of this

Majlis, for the education and edification of Madani children (boys) Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys) and Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for girls) have been established at home and abroad. In these Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Madani children are taught Naa zir ah and made to memorize the Holy Quran with Tajweed and Qira`at. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah, not only Madani children are given Islamic education, but special attention is also given to their moral and Madani upbringing. They are taught how to live an Islamic life according to the teachings of Islam. Sunnahs and manners are mentioned and taught. How to respect parents is taught. They are taught how to be affectionate towards young ones and respect elders. Efforts are made to make them offer Salah regularly and act upon Sunnahs. They are given the Madani mind-set of refraining from telling a lie. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ thousands of fortunate Hafiz of the Holy Quran who have been privileged to memorize the Holy Quran from Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys) are privileged to listen and recite the Holy Quran during Taraweeh Salah at home and abroad every year. Even at the present time, thousands of fortunate Hafiz of the Holy Quran who have become Hafiz from Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for boys) are serving Islam by serving different departments of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. Some are serving as Imam, and some are busy spreading Quranic education after becoming a teacher.

صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب

Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home

O devotees of Rasool! Let’s listen to Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home from the booklet ‘ 101 Madani Phool ’, written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

٭ When leaving the home, recite this Du’a:

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ تَوَکَّلْتُ عَلَی اللّٰہِ لَا حَوْلَ وَ لَا قُ ـ وَّۃَ اِلَّا بِا للّٰہِ

Translation: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the name of, I have put my trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there is no power (to abstain from evil) or might (to do good) except from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5095)

By the blessings of reciting this Du’a, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will stay on the right path, you will be protected from calamities, and you will be bestowed with the help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

٭ The Du’a for entering the home is:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِ نِّیْۤ اَسْئَلُكَ خَیْرَ الْمَوْلَجِ وَ خَیْرَ الْمَخْرَ جِ

بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ وَ لَجْنَا وَ بِسْمِ اللّٰہِ خَرَجْنَا وَ عَلَی اللّٰہِ رَ بِّنَا تَوَکَّلْنَا

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I ask You for the goodness of entering and exiting, we enter (the home) with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and exit the home with the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we put our trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Ibid, vol. 4, pp. 420, Hadees 5096)

After reciting this Du’a, say Salam to your household, then present your Salam to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم, then recite Surah Al-Ikhlas. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, there will be blessings in your sustenance and protection from domestic disputes.

٭ Say Salam to the Maharim and Mahrimaat (e.g. your mother, father, brothers, sisters, children and wife etc.) upon entering and leaving home.

٭ The one who enters the home without reciting the name of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, for example without reciting ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’, Satan also enters along with him.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Announcement

Remaining Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs [learning circles]. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn them.

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Duroods and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭٭٭

1. The Durood for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Durood at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Durood upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Durood, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him.

(Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Duroods

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Durood once receives the reward of reciting Durood 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Durood upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Durood upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 07 March 2019

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 . Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 . Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 . Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of entering and leaving home

٭ If you enter a home where no one is present (even if it is your own home), then say:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْنَا وَ عَلٰی عِبَادِ اللّٰہِ الصّٰلِحِیْنَ

Translation: Salam be upon us and the righteous bondmen of Allah.

The angels will reply to this Salam . (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 682)

Or say the following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ اَیُّھَا النَّبِیُّ

Translation: O Nabi صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم, Salam be upon you.

As the sacred and blessed soul of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم is present in the homes of Muslims. (Sharh-ush-Shifa lil-Qaari, vol. 2, pp. 118)

٭ When you want to enter someone’s home, say like this, ‘ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْـکُمْ, may I come in?’

٭ If permission is not granted to enter the home, return happily, perhaps, householder did not grant permission due to some compulsion.

٭ When someone knocks on your door, it is Sunnah to ask: ‘ Who is it? ’ The person knocking should say his name, for example, ‘ Muhammad Ilyas ’.

On this occasion, it is not Sunnah to say ‘ Madinah ’, ‘ it is me ’, ‘ open the door ’, etc. instead of saying the name.

٭ Stand to a side of the door after telling your name in reply so when the door opens, your gaze does not fall inside the home straightaway.

٭ It is prohibited to peep into someone’s home. In front of some people’s homes, there are sometimes homes of other people at a lower level. Therefore, one must be cautious while looking out from the balcony etc., to ensure that his gaze does not fall in their homes.

٭ Upon visiting someone’s home, do not criticize the arrangements of their home unnecessarily. It may hurt their feelings.

٭ Upon leaving, make Du’a for the members of the household, show your gratitude towards them, say Salam, and if possible, give any Sunnah-inspiring booklet etc. as a gift.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a upon seeing a Muslim smiling

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a ‘ upon seeing a Muslim smiling ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

اَضْحَك َ اللّٰہُ سِنَّكَ

Translation: May Allah keep you smiling. (Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp. 104)

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 . I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 . I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 . I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 . I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Durood upon the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 . I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 . I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 . I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2 . Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 . Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 . Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 . Recited Durood upon the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times?

6 . Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 . Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 . Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 . Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

1 0 . Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

1 1 . Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

1 2 . Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

1 3 . Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

1 4 . Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

1 5 . Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

1 6 . Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

1 7 . Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

1 8 . Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

1 9 . Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 . Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 . Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 . Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 . Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 . Obeyed your Nigran?

25 . Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 . In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 . Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 . Controlled your anger?

29 . Refrained from useless questions?

30 . Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 . Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 . Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 . Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 . Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 . Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 . Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 . Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 . Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 . Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 . Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 . Paid back the loan on time?

42 . Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 . Kept unified relations?

44 . Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 . Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 . While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 . Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 . Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 . Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 . Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 . Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 . Inquired after an ill person?

4 . Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 . Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 . Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 . Sent a letter?

8 . Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

