اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Great Knowledge of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِيَ اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَنۡهَا

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Day of Judgement, the person who will attain salvation from its terror and accountability amongst you will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود اُن پہ سَدا مَیں

اور ذِکر کا بھی شوق پئے غَوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! 17 th Ramadan is the day of the mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah’s demise, so today with reference to this we shall discuss some amazing aspects of her wonderful life. I will also especially mention her glorious knowledge. By the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was not only unique in piety, generosity and bravery, worship and spiritual exercises and many other good qualities, but she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was also unique in many arts and sciences.

Sayyiduna ‘Urwah Bin Zubayr رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا, who is the nephew of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا (he is the son of her sister Sayyidatuna Asma رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا), has stated: Apart from Fiqh and Hadees I have not found anyone else knowing more about the couplets of the Arabs than Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا). She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had great expertise in the science of medicine and medical treatments of patients. (Seerat-e-Mustafa, pp. 661-662)

About the same (Sayyiduna) ‘Urwah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, ‘Allamah Zurqaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Once, in a state of awe, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا: O my mother! You have had the privilege of being the wife of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the daughter of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (therefore due to this privilege) whatever expertise you have attained in the knowledge of jurisprudence is truly amazing. Likewise, it does not surprise me as well how and why you have memorized so many couplets of the Arabs. It is because I know that you are the daughter of the leader of the believers, Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq (and he was expert in the art of poetry, so due to him you have gained expertise in this art), but I am very surprised as to how and from where you have obtained this medical knowledge.

Having heard this, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا patted his shoulders and said: O ‘Urwah! The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم frequently fell ill in his last blessed days. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not feel well and the Hakeem of the Arabs and non-Arabs would prescribe medicines for him. I would treat the

Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with those medicines (therefore, I have also received this medical information as well). (Sharh-ul-Mawahib, vol. 4, pp. 389-392)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How excellent memory and deep sight Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had that she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا continued to memorize the medicines which were prescribed for the treatment of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, until she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا developed expertise in the science of medicine. Undoubtedly this was also the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Her undivided attention and excellent memory also had a great role to play. Apart from juristic rulings and medical information, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا also had great competence in the matters of understanding the Holy Quran and Hadees. That’s why whenever the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم had any kind of confusion or problem regarding the explanation of any ruling or commentary and explanation etc. of any verse, they would approach the mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا . This was because they knew that she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had special closeness to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was more qualified in understanding juristic rulings and understanding the Holy Quran than all other blessed wives. Undoubtedly, all this was the blessings of the company of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that by virtue of this, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا attained unique and excellent knowledge in the field of arts and sciences. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا even possessed complete knowledge of the revelation of the verses of the Holy Quran and the rulings of Hajj etc. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا used to mention them to the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم in an extremely splendid manner.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a fact that different types of flowers have different types of attraction, beauty, fragrance and benefits. Every one of them refreshes the heart and mind. Surely no one can deny the importance of these flowers,

but this fact cannot be denied either that the rose flower has attained a higher status than other flowers due to its attractiveness and beauty. Likewise, in status; rank; understanding and wisdom, all the Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen are more skilled than other women. All of them are saints of high ranks, with amazing attributes, the real reflection of knowledge and practice and are the mothers of the Ummah, however, from the view of knowledge, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا is the most learned. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was such an expertise in many arts and sciences that her judicial acumen (the ability to think quickly and make good judgments) in Islamic jurisprudence and knowledge is still being heard in the world. By the blessings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا became a Muftiyah, ‘Aalimah (female Islamic scholar), Muhaddisah and commentator of the time. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا always kept herself occupied with imparting Islamic knowledge. In short, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا devoted herself to serve Islamic education throughout her blessed life.

Sayyiduna Qaasim رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The mother of believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had attained the permanent post of Ifta during her father’s (Sayyiduna Siddeeq Akbar’s) reign. Furthermore, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا would continue issuing Fatwas in the age of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq, Sayyiduna ‘Usman رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا and after them till her blessed demise.

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 286)

Furthermore, the commentator of Sahih Bukhari, ‘Allamah Badruddin ‘Ayni رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا is regarded amongst those blessed Companions who have excellent expertise in juristic rulings. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا is also one of the 6 blessed Companions who have narrated most of the blessed Ahadees, as she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا has narrated 2,210 blessed Ahadees.

(‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 38)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned in the glory and dignity of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا:

جن کا پہلو ہو نبی کی آخری آرامگاہ

جن کے حجرے میں قیامت تک نبی ہوں جاگُزیں

آستاں اُن کا فرشتوں کی زیارت گاہ ہے

کیونکہ اُس میں جلوہ فرما ہیں اِمامُ المرسلین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to two narrations about Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah’s majestic knowledge and scholarly glory and splendour so that we also develop the curiosity and passion for acquiring Islamic knowledge:

1. Sayyiduna ‘Urwah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I have not seen anyone more well versed than the Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا in the Holy Quran, Meeraas (Rulings on Inheritance), Halal and Haraam, poetry, sayings of the Arabs and the knowledge of lineage (family). (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 2, pp. 60, Raqm 1482)

2. Sayyiduna Abu Salmah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: I have not seen anyone more well versed than Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا in the matter of Ahadees-e-Rasool, nor found anyone else more of a Faqeeh (Jurist) than her in any matter in which an opinion is required. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ further said that there was none besides her who knew more about the circumstances of revelation of the Quranic verses, nor was there anyone more proficient than her in the knowledge of Meeraas.

(At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 286)

Dear Islamic brothers! In the light of the narrations we have just heard it can be easily judged that by the special grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and favour of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم the Mother of believers Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had acquired excellent scholarly glory and splendour, juristic knowledge, expertise in Quranic Uloom (sciences) and the

knowledge of Meeraas etc. of a very high level. Therefore, whenever the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم had any difficulty in understanding any rulings, they would punctually go to her in order to quench their thirst of knowledge and solve their problems.

Sayyiduna Abu Musa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Whenever we, the Companions of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, came across something complicated, we would ask Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا about it and we would receive its knowledge from her. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 371, Hadees 3909)

Elaborating on this blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: No Bibi has been born yet who is such a scholar and Faqeehah (Jurist) as the Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا is. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was an encyclopaedia of Quranic knowledge and the knowledge of Hadees. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was a great Muhaddisah and a great Faqeeha (jurist). (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 8, pp. 505)

کیوں نہ ہو رُتبہ تمہارا اہلِ ایماں میں بڑا

سب تو ہیں مومن مگر آپ اُمُّ المُومنین

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From the above-mentioned blessed Hadees and its elaboration it has become obvious that by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the blessings of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, being a woman, had complete expertise in Shar’i rulings and was fully aware of the intricate matters of knowledge. Therefore, no matter of how difficult the problems were, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا solved them in such a brilliant manner that nothing was left in the mind of the one who was asking about it. In her life, she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا developed expertise in many important arts and sciences and conveyed this Madani message to the women until the world exists that it is not specific only for the men to attain the blessings of Islamic knowledge,

but if women also take courage, then the day is not far when she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا can also become an Islamic scholar, Muhaddisah, commentator and even a Muftiyah and can play a significant role in the reformation of our society. But alas! Now the number of Islamic sisters, who have such a mind-set, is very limited and like men, the majority of women are also deprived of Islamic knowledge. Perhaps it is for this reason that our society is facing countless religious and worldly problems.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Nowadays the passion for acquiring and imparting Islamic knowledge in men and women has almost died out. That’s why non-practicing Muslims are seen everywhere. Thousands of young boys and girls are far away from Islamic values and are living in disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they live their lives without any rules like animals who wonder about. One of the causes of not practicing Islamic teachings is that Muslims have stopped acquiring Islamic knowledge and have not provided Islamic knowledge to their children either. Therefore, it is extremely necessary for Muslim men and women to take out some time and learn necessary Islamic knowledge as well as teach this to their children. If you cannot make your children Islamic scholars, at least provide them with that amount of Islamic knowledge through which they may remain as Muslims. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 472)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Indeed, knowledge is that great attribute by virtue of which the mother of believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا had a specific superiority over the other blessed wives, though all the Honourable wives were great in the field of knowledge according to their own levels. In the light of the blessed Hadees, if the knowledge of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا is compared with the knowledge of the entire women of the Ummah, then her superiority in knowledge can be seen over all the women of the Ummah, including the other Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen.

Talking about her scholarly dignity and glory, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once said: If the knowledge of all the women of this Ummah along with the knowledge of the wives of the Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is collected, then the knowledge of ‘Aaishah (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا) will be more than all of their knowledge. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 9, pp. 289, Hadees 15318)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely effective to study the book named ‘ Faizan-e-‘Aaishah Siddiqah ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah for more information on the blessed life of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains the speech of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah’s scholarly dignity and glory. It contains her sayings and deep desire for worshipping. It contains the description of her generosity, sacrifice and dedication to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It also contains the discussion of her uniqueness, housekeeping and practice upon the sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It also has her eloquence, concerns, politeness and humility and much more. The topics of this book has been extracted from 215 books. Buy this book today from a stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study it. Persuade other Islamic brothers and especially the Islamic sisters of your houses to study it. This book can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami (www.dawateislami.net).

Dear Islamic brothers! The fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is attained by acquiring Islamic knowledge. By acquiring Islamic knowledge, one distinguishes between Halal and Haraam. What other things can we get by acquiring Islamic knowledge, for this purpose as well, Maktaba-tul-Madinah has published a book called Jannat mayn Lay Jaanay Walay A’maal [Deeds Leading to Paradise]. It is also very effective to study the booklet named ‘ Ilm-o-‘Ulama ki Shan ’ [Glory of Knowledge and Islamic Scholars], اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely knowledge is a great thing. Through Islamic knowledge one gains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Islamic knowledge improves a person internally and externally. Islamic knowledge erases ignorance.

The blessed companions would ask about the commentary of the Holy Quran besides other scholarly questions. As it is stated on page 615 of a 743-page book namely ‘Deeds Leading to Paradise’ published by the publishing department Maktaba-tul-Madinah: Sayyidatuna Umaymah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا has said: I asked Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا about these verses (part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 284 and part 5, Surah An-Nisa, verse 123):

وَ اِنۡ تُبۡدُ وۡا مَا فِیۡۤ اَنۡفُسِکُمۡ اَوۡ تُخۡفُوۡہُ یُحَاسِبۡکُمۡ بِہِ اللّٰہُ ؕ فَیَغۡفِرُ لِمَنۡ یَّشَآءُ وَ یُعَذِّبُ مَنۡ یَّشَآءُ ؕ وَ اللّٰہُ عَلٰی کُلِّ شَیۡءٍ قَدِ یۡرٌ ﴿۲۸۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whether you disclose what is in your hearts or hide it, Allah will take account of it from you; so He will forgive whomever He wills and punish whomever He wills; and Allah is Able to do all things. (Part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 284)

Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا replied: Ever since I asked this question to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, no one has asked me about it. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (in reply to my question) said: ‘O ‘Aaishah! It is an agreement of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with his bondman. Whatever fever he has, inconvenience he has or if a thorn pricks him, even the Poonji (belonging) he keeps in his Potli (a small bundle) and does not find it and then he gets restless for losing it, but he then finds it on his side. Even a true believer gets out of his sins as red gold is taken out from the furnace.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, pp. 1070, Hadees 62)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Abu ‘Atiyyah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that Sayyiduna Masrooq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and I went to the Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا and humbly said: O Mother of the believers (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا)! There are two people amongst the blessed companions of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: The first one does Iftar in a hurry and offers Salah in a hurry and the second one does Iftar late and also offers Salah late. She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا said: Who hurries in Salah and Iftar? We humbly said: ‘Abdullah (Bin Mas’ood). She رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا said: The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to do so in the same manner. The second (person) is Sayyiduna Abu Musa رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 397, Hadees 1099-49)

Regarding this blessed Hadees, the commentator of the book Mishkat, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Both these blessed people (i.e. Sayyiduna Abu ‘Atiyyah and Sayyiduna Masrooq رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) are great Tabi’ee. They had a difference of opinion regarding the Maghrib Salah and the Iftar of fasting. They went to Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا to resolve this, as she رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was a great Faqeehah (jurist) scholar.

Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has further said: Salah here refers to Maghrib Salah and hurrying refers to very soon after the sun sets, and late refers to delaying for a few minutes as a precaution, rather than the delay until it gets very dark. Therefore, there is no objection on any of the saints. One saint acts upon Azeemat [strong intention] and the other one on Rukhsat [facility and ease] .

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has also said: Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا declared that the practice of Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah (Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) was according to the Sunnat-e-Mustahabbah and declared a little delay to be Mustahab. It has become obvious that the Mother of believers رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا was fully aware of the nature of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and knew about his conditions. It is possible that this news reached Sayyiduna Abu Musa Ash’ari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and he must have made a change in his act. It cannot be expected from the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم that after

becoming aware of any action of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم they would do contrary to it. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 175)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Following in the blessed footsteps of the honourable companions, we too should contact the scholars if we do not have knowledge of something. We should acquire Islamic knowledge and also persuade our children and siblings to also do so. Surely, the more we have Islamic knowledge in the society, the more we will overcome ignorance and when ignorance is reduced, then definitely a large number of sins will be erased and then very soon our society will become a place of peace, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Let’s listen to some virtues of Islamic knowledge in the light of Quran and Hadees so that we may also develop the passion for acquiring Islamic knowledge. Discussing the glory and dignity of the learned people in the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

قُلۡ ہَلۡ یَسۡتَوِی الَّذِیۡنَ یَعۡلَمُوۡنَ وَ الَّذِیۡنَ

لَا یَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ؕ اِنَّمَا یَتَذَکَّرُ اُولُو ا الۡاَ لۡبَابِ ٪﴿۹﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Proclaim, ‘Are the knowledgeable and the ignorant equal? It is only the men of intellect who heed advice.’

(Part 23, Surah Az-Zumur, verse 9)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The blessed Ahadees are full of the virtues of Islamic knowledge. Let’s listen to 9 sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding this:

1. A scholar is an authority and proof of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on earth.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 349, Hadees 5658)

1. Verily, the superiority of scholars on the earth is like the stars used by [people] to guide them in the darkness of the universe. When these stars go dim, then those people who are guided & righteous will fall into misguidance. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 4, pp. 314, Hadees 12600)

2. Even a little action with knowledge is beneficial but a lot of action done with ignorance brings about no benefit. (Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, pp. 65, Hadees 197)

3. اَلۡعِلۡمُ حَيَاةُ الۡاِسۡلَامِ وَ عِمَادُ الۡاِيۡمَانِ: Knowledge is a life of Islam and is a pillar of the Deen. (Jami’ Bayan-ul-‘Ilm, vol. 5, pp. 200, Hadees 14518)

4. مَنۡ طَلَبَ الۡعِلۡمَ تَكَفَّلَ اللّٰهُ بِرِزۡقِه: Whoever keeps seeking knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ becomes the guarantor of his livelihood.

(Tareekh-e-Baghdad, vol. 3, pp. 398)

5. مَنۡ سَلَكَ طَرِيۡقًا يَلۡتَمِسُ فِيۡهِ عِلۡمًا سَهَّلَ اللّٰهُ لَهُ بِه طَرِيۡقًا اِلَي الۡجَنَّةِ: ‘Whoever walks on a path in search of knowledge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes the path to Paradise easy for him.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1448, Hadees 2699)

6. Scholars are the heirs of the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Indeed, the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام do not make heirs of dirham & dinar but they make heirs of knowledge and anyone who takes it will have his share and the death of a scholar is such a tragedy which cannot be compensated and it is such a vacuum which cannot be filled, it is as if he was a star which went dim; the death of a community is nothing compared to the death of a scholar. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 63, Hadees 1699)

7. One who meets death whilst seeking knowledge for the revival of Islam, there will be the difference of only one rank between him and the Prophets عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام in Paradise. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 112, Hadees 354)

8. مَنۡ خَرَجَ فِيۡ طَلَبِ الۡعِلۡمِ فَهُوَ فِيۡ سَبِيۡلِ اللّٰهِ حَتّٰي يَرۡجِعَ: Whoever leaves his home for acquiring knowledge, he is in the path of Allah until he returns.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 295, Hadees 2656)

Regarding the last blessed Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: i.e. The person who leaves his home for asking about a ruling or goes to a scholar from his homeland in search of knowledge, he is ‘ مُجَاهِد فِيۡ سَبِيۡلِ اللّٰه ’ (i.e. like the one who is a warrior in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). All of his time and every movement will be worship until he returns like a Ghazi. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 203)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! The virtues which have been mentioned for acquiring knowledge in the Quran and Hadees signify ‘Islamic knowledge’. There are several means of gaining Islamic knowledge. We can acquire Islamic knowledge by any of these means:

1. For Dars-e-Nizami (Islamic scholar course) one can get Islamic knowledge properly after gaining admission in Jami’a-tul-Madinah.

2. Gain Islamic knowledge in the company of Islamic scholars of the Ahl-e-Sunnat.

3. Continue studying the books and booklets of Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will gain a treasure of information.

4. Make your routine to travel regularly with Madani Qafilahs in the company of the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

5. Have the privilege to regularly attend the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat, Dars and Bayanaat.

6. Make your habit to watch the programs of Madani Channel which are full of Islamic knowledge.

1. Have the privilege to do the different courses (for example, 63-Day Madani Training Course, 41-Day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course, 12-Day Madani Course, Faizan-e-Quran and Hadees Course, etc.) which are offered from time to time in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami.

2. Visit the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net . Hundreds of books and booklets and Sunnah-inspiring speeches and Madani Muzakarahs which are full of Islamic knowledge can be found on this website, and are spreading the blessings of Islamic knowledge.

3. Make your routine to attend the weekly Madani Muzakarahs of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه regularly from beginning to end. The more efforts we put, the more we will increase our Islamic knowledge, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami has established many Jami’aat namely ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah’ in the country and across the world in which countless Islamic of brothers are provided with the education of Dars-e-Nizami i.e. Aalim Course (with accommodation and meals) and Islamic sisters are provided with the education of the ‘Aalimah Course, free of charge. Furthermore, for giving the education of Hifz and Naazirah to Madani children (boys and girls) hundreds of Madaris named ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah’ are being run in the country and across the world. In these Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah, efforts are made to provide such a Madani environment that the boys and girls studying in them after completing their education become the embodiment of knowledge and practice and spread Sunnah all over the world. They spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami across the world. Therefore, we should also admit our children into Jami’a-tul-Madinah and Madrasa-tul-Madinah in order to make them true lovers of the Beloved Rasool, the honourable companions and the purified Ahl-e-Bayt, and to make their grave and the Hereafter better, for making them act upon knowledge and practice and for making the path to Paradise easy. This will become a source of permanent reward for you as well.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Admissions are being granted in Jami’a-tul-Madinah to Islamic brothers and for the Jami’a-tul-Madinah for Islamic sisters. Admissions will continue to be granted until 10 th of Shawwal-ul-Mukarram, 1437 AH (expected 16 th July, 2016). Admission seekers should contact Jami’a-tul-Madinah (for boys and girls) of their own cities.

You too should enrol your children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah for better Islamic upbringing, to make them habitual of offering Salah and observing fasts, for teaching them Shar’i rulings of Faraaid and Wajibaat, Halal and Haraam, Rulings on selling and purchasing and human rights etc. so then they may impart Islamic knowledge to others and to make your Hereafter better.

The virtues of Islamic education are outstanding! ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Knowledge is not something whose excellence and qualities are to be mentioned. Everyone knows that knowledge is a much better thing and its acquisition is a sign of high rank. Through knowledge, human life becomes pleasant and successful, and our worldly life and the Hereafter both get better. This knowledge refers to knowledge which is obtained from the Quran and Hadees. This knowledge makes our worldly life and the Hereafter better. It brings about salvation. It is praised in the Quran and Hadees and for the same education we are made to pay attention. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 618)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In Jami’a-tul-Madinah, not only are students provided with knowledge, but they are also persuaded as to how to avoid sins and perform good deeds. In addition to this, the students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah also become travellers in Madani Qafilahs with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool according to the schedule in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Some fortunate students have the privilege to travel with 12-month Madani Qafilahs. Acting upon the 92 Madani In’amaat given by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, they fill out the Madani In’amaat booklet daily and submit it on the 1 st of every Madani month. You should also enrol your children in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. Furthermore, make individual efforts upon your brothers, friends and other relatives and give them the mind-set of admitting their children into Jami’a-tul-Madinah. It will spread knowledge everywhere and overcome

ignorance. It will also continue to become a permanent source of reward for you, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Keeping in mind the scholarly glory and dignity of Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهَا, we should also acquire Islamic knowledge and pay special attention to the Islamic education and upbringing of our children. Alas! Nowadays, due to being far away from Islamic teachings and readily following the non-Muslims, many Muslims have lost their status. Unfortunately, our living style and customs have become completely contrary to Islamic teachings. Under such difficult circumstances, proper Islamic upbringing of children especially of daughters, seems extremely difficult. Therefore, if we want to give our daughters a proper upbringing, then firstly we will have to get Islamic information so that we may play our real role effectively in the light of Islamic teachings. As we know that our daughter will one day become someone’s wife and a daughter-in-law, then she will become a mother and then a mother-in-law. Therefore, today it is necessary to pay attention to the upbringing of that daughter so that tomorrow she may not become heedless of the best upbringing for her children.

How to give children Madani upbringing? For excellent information on this, buy 3 booklets of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, namely, ‘ Tarbiyat-e-Awlad, ‘ Bayti ki Perwarish ’, ‘ Awlad kay Huqooq ’ and try to give your children an upbringing in the light of the Madani pearls derived from them. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will receive blessings in this world and in the Hereafter. These booklets can be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Always associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for giving your children a good upbringing, attaining steadfastness in Salah and other virtuous deeds, learning moral, social and religious things and for learning the Sunnah and etiquettes. It would be excellent if every Islamic brother observes congregational I’tikaf arranged by

Dawat-e-Islami, because very soon the ‘Asharah (last ten days) of blessed Ramadan will soon begin, and millions of Muslims will observe I’tikaf for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and with the intention of acting upon the Sunnah and become deserving of the gifts distributed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Those who observe I’tikaf are so fortunate that they spend each of their moments in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ (if they abstain from those acts contrary to Shari’ah). As long as a Mu’takif remains in the state of I’tikaf, he stays safe from many evils and is granted a reward of one Hajj every day.

Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: A Mu’takif gets a reward of one Haj every day. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 425, Hadees 3968)

Furthermore, Sayyiduna ‘Ata Khurasaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The example of a Mu’takif is like a man wearing an Ihram who has come to the house of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and says: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I will not leave this place unless you forgive me. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 426, Hadees 3970)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the revival of the Sunnah of the last ten-days of I’tikaf, Dawat-e-Islami (a global non-political movement of Quran and Sunnah), in its Madani environment, arranges the last ten-day congregational I’tikaf in many places in the country and overseas as well.

A complete schedule is planned for those who observe the Sunnat I’tikaf so that these honourable guests of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ may succeed in achieving what they came for. Efforts are made to provide them with good facilities so that the lovers of Ramadan and I’tikaf can attend the Halqah of learning and teaching with great interest. The recitation of the Holy Quran with its correct Makharij, basic rulings on Salah, rulings on Wudu and Ghusl, Sunan and manners, Du’as, Kalimahs, Surahs and many other Madani pearls are learnt and taught.

In addition to these, Madani Dars (i.e. Dars from the book Faizan-e-Sunnat), Sunnah-inspiring reformatory speeches, audio Madani Muzakarahs are also played. Furthermore, a Madani mind-set is also given to the Mu’takifeen so that they may abstain from sins, repent of their previous sins, offer Qada Salahs, live a Sunnah-inspiring life, associate themselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, do Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami in their

homes, areas and cities, act upon the Madani In’amaat, travel with Madani Qafilahs and persuade other Muslims to perform Madani activities by making individual efforts, obey responsible Islamic brothers and parents and fulfil the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His bondmen. Therefore, all Islamic brothers are requested to attend this congregational I’tikaf.

www

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’

(Sunan Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 4, pp. 115 Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, then it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

3. It is Sunnah to use antimony (kohl / Surmah) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

1. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl. Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application). Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left. Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5 pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

Click here to read

