اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Bad Character of Yazeed

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘O people! Undoubtedly, on the Day of Judgement, the person amongst you who will attain salvation from its terror and accountability, will be the one who would have recited Salat upon me abundantly in the world.’

(Al-Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 471, Hadees 8210)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سے دُرُود اُن پہ سَدا مَیں

اور ذِکر کا بھی شوق پئے غَوث و رضا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: Once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم approached us whilst Hasanayn Karimayn were with him. One was sitting on his right shoulder and the other one was on his left shoulder. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was kissing them again and again. Someone humbly asked: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Do you love them? The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Yes! The person, who loves them, loves me, and the person who has hatred for them, has hatred for me. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 4, pp. 156, Hadees 4830)

This standard of love for the beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given to Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah through the court of Risaalat. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ kept to this standard throughout his life. When Marwan Bin Hukm came to Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ at the time of his death and humbly said: Ever since I adopted your company, I have found that you truly love Hasanayn Karimayn. After hearing this, Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ became restless and sat up and said: Once, we left to go somewhere with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We only travelled some distance when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم heard the sound of Hasanayn Karimayn’s crying. At that time they were both with their mother. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم hurriedly walked and reached them. I heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying to Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: What has happened to my sons? She humbly replied: They are thirsty (and therefore they are crying), The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then took a Mashkeezah (a small leather bag for carrying water) to get some water for them, but it did not have any water because at that time there was a severe shortage of water and people would search for water. Calling out the people, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Does any one of you have water?

Everyone checked their Mashkeezah for water, but found not a single drop of water. The Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: Give me one of them. The Lady of Paradise, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا gave one of them from beneath the Pardah (veil). Having taken the child, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم embraced him, but he was constantly crying due to extreme thirst. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

then put his blessed tongue into the child’s mouth, he started sucking it until his thirst was quenched.

(Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has further said) I never heard the sound of his crying anymore, however, the other son was still crying. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: Give me the second child as well. The Lady of Paradise, Sayyidatuna Fatimah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا handed the second child over to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did the same with him as well (i.e. the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم put his blessed tongue into the child’s mouth, he also quenched his thirst and became quiet). Thereafter, both the sons became so quiet that I never heard the sound of their crying again. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then said: Why should I not love them as I have seen the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم do this with them. (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 50, Hadees 2656)

اُن دو کا صدقہ جن کو کہا میرے پھُول ہیں

کیجے رضاؔ کو حشر میں خنداں مثالِ گُل

Explanation of couplet: O my Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! For the sake of the two princes, whom you have called your flowers, i.e. Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا, make Raza like a blooming flower, after saving him from every type of difficulty and worry on the plain of Mahshar. (Sharh Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, pp. 217)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Always remember this, that to love the blessed Companions and the blessed Ahl-e-Bayt is the salvation in this world and the Hereafter. On the other hand, to have hatred towards them will only bring about destruction.

Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was going somewhere. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed by a person who was speaking ill of the blessed Companions Sayyiduna ‘Ali, Sayyiduna Talhah and Sayyiduna Zubayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said to that insulter: Refrain from speaking ill of my brothers or I will curse you. The fearless insulter said that are you frightening me as if you are a Nabi. Sayyiduna Sa’d Bin Abi Waqas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Wudu (ablution), entered the Masjid and after performing two Rak’aat of Salah, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made Du’a with these words in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! If he has displeased You by speaking ill of the glorious Companions of Your Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), then punish him today, show me a sign and make him as an example of warning for the true believers.

(He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had just said these words) when suddenly a camel came charging through the rows of the people and fell upon that insulter with its teeth, the camel then crushed him to death. It is stated: (After his death) people came running to Sayyiduna Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and said: O Abu Ishaaq! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has answered your Du’a and an enemy of the blessed Companions has been destroyed. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 6, pp. 190)

امیں ہیں یہ قرآن و دین ِخدا کے

مدارِ ہُدیٰ اعتبارِ صحابہ

رسالت کی منزل میں ہر ہر قدم پر

نبی کو رہا انتظارِ صحابہ

انہیں میں ہیں صدیق و فاروق و عثماں

انہیں میں علی شہسوارِ صحابہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard about the terrible and admonitory end of an unfortunate person who spoke ill of only a few blessed Companions . It is obvious that to speak ill of those who love Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or to harm them in any way, will bring the punishments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Those who speak ill of and disrespect the pious saints are not only disgraced in this world, but they will also be destined to disgrace and humiliation in the Hereafter. The accursed

Yazeed is also such an unfortunate person who not only committed the sin of disgracing the blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم, but he also martyred the innocent blessed Ahl-e-Bayt. The terrible sin that Yazeed committed, was condemned in every age of the Islamic world, and the filthy name of Yazeed will be used with disgrace until the Day of Judgement. This accursed and evil-hearted person was born on 25 th Hijri in Damascus. He was extremely fat, had ugly features, was ill-mannered and ill-tempered, a drunkard, offensive and cruel. He was a transgressor, a blasphemer and a very disrespectful person. His corruption and immoralities were so great that even wicked people would feel ashamed. (Summary from: Sawanih Karbala, pp. 111)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna Imam Husayn’s presence was a great obstacle for the freedom of Yazeed. He knew that he would not be able to act freely in Sayyiduna Imam Husain’s blessed era, and his evils were not going to be tolerated. He could see that the whip of a religious person like Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is always ready for him, therefore, Yazeed became a great enemy of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his martyrdom brought about pleasure for him.

As soon as Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was martyred, Yazeed became absolutely free and started committing all sorts of sins. He declared Nikah (marriage) between brother and sister, usury, alcohol, forbidden acts (particularly adultery and fornication) to be permissible. Regularly offering Salah was abandoned. Insurgency and disobedience were at their peak. He had surpassed all levels of evil, even Muslim Bin ‘Uqbah at the head of 12,000 or 20,000 soldiers was sent to attack Madinah Munawwarah. The city of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was brutally attacked and such horrifying atrocities were perpetuated upon its citizens, that the very thought of them makes one’s hair stand on end. He plundered the homes of those who live there. He martyred more than 10000 people, including 700 blessed Companions. The boys were imprisoned and such kinds of wrong acts were committed which are unpleasant to mention. Horses were tied to the pillars of Masjid-un-Nabawi (inside the Holy Masjid). People could not offer Salah

for 3 days. Only Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained in Masjid-un-Nabawi under the pretext of being insane. Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Hanzalah رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said: We feared that due to his evil practices, we might be bombarded with stones from the skies. (As-Sawa’iq-ul-Muharriqah, pp.221)

Thereafter, this evil army left for Makka-tul-Mukarramah, the chief of this army died on the way with another person filling his position. Having reached Makkah, these non-Islamic forces [Yazeed’s evil army] showered stones with Minjaneeq (i.e. a catapult). Due to this rain of stones, the sacred compound of the sacred Haram got filled with stones and the pillars of Masjid-ul-Haraam broke and these non-Islamic forces burnt the cover of sacred Ka’bah and its roof. The horns of the ram which was sacrificed in exchange for Sayyiduna Isma’eel, had been secured on the same roof. They were also burnt. The sacred Ka’bah remained uncovered for many days and the people of Makkah Mukarramah suffered the severe tribulation inflicted upon them by Yazeed’s army. (Summary from: Sawanih Karbala, pp. 177 to 179)

Dear Islamic brothers! Yazeed propagated many evil practices during his reign, such as openly permitting Nikah between Mahaareem and the consuming of usury (interest) etc. He dishonoured Madinah Tayyibah and Makkah Mukarramah. He oppressed and martyred the blessed Companions and Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم . He used to listen to songs and music and drink plenty of wine; he would not offer Salah. In short, this unfortunate person used to do all those things which are prohibited by the blessed Shari’ah. Surely, many people become rebellious and bold after obtaining respect, fame, wealth and government positions and then he gradually drifts far away from religion and gets closer to the world. Such an unfortunate person does not abstain from disobeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His dear ones, just to preserve his throne and crown.

The accursed Yazeed also suffered from the love of power and government position and became such so rebellious that م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ he was disrespectful to the blessed Companions and caused them great harm. The blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم are those sacred people about whose glory and

dignity the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself said: ‘ اَكْرِمُوا اَصْحَابِي فَاِنَّهُمْ خِيَارُكُمْ ’ i.e. Respect my Companions because they are the most pious people amongst you. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 413, Hadees 6012)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said: ‘ خَيْرُ اُمَّتِي اَلْقَرْنُ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنِي ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ثُمَّ الَّذِينَ يَلُوْنَهُمْ ’ i.e. The best amongst the people are of my Ummah (i.e., blessed Companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم), then those after them (i.e., Taabi’een) then those after them (i.e., Tab’-e-Taabi’een رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی). (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 1372)

نمایاں ہے اسلام کے گلستاں میں

ہر اک گل پہ رنگِ بہارِ صحابہ

یہ مہریں ہیں فرمان ِخَتمُ الرُّسُل کی

ہے دِینِ خدا شاہکارِ صحابہ

انہیں میں ہیں بدر و اُحد کے مجاہد

لقب جن کا ہے جاں نثارِ صحابہ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The accursed Yazeed could not attain closeness to the blessed Companions even though he was living in their blessed era, nor could he prepare for salvation of the Hereafter by giving respect to them, but he oppressed the blessed family of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The accursed Yazeed did all of this only for the love of his crown and for governance, for worldly possessions and wealth and because this cruel accursed person felt insecure for his governance, with the blessed presence of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had no interest in this mortal world. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the king of the hearts of the Muslim Ummah yesterday, he is the king today and will remain the king until the world exists, but that accursed foolish Yazeed who was intoxicated with wealth, not only destroyed his worldly life, but he also destroyed his Hereafter. Indeed, love of this world is the cause of every mischief. The love of this world has brought about all this destruction. The love of this world makes a person cruel, insensitive and bold, it makes a person stone-hearted

and ruins one’s deeds. The love of this world is the cause of harming the religion. It is a cause of going astray, it diverts a person’s attention away from virtuous deeds and it makes a person bold in committing sins. Let’s listen to 3 blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about the condemnation of this world:

1. Love of the world is the root of all sins. (Kitab Zamm-ud-Dunya ma’ Mawsu’ah Imam Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 5, pp. 22, Hadees 9)

2. Six things ruin a deed: (1) persevering in efforts to discover the faults of people (2) Hard-Heartedness (3) Love for the world (4) Lack of modesty (5) high hopes (6) too much oppression. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 8, pp. 36, Hadees 44016)

3. Two hungry wolves when set free in a flock of goats, do not cause as much harm as the greed of wealth and the love of the world causes to one’s religion.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 166, Hadees 2376)

پیچھا مِرا دُنیا کی محبت سے چُھڑا دے

یا ربّ مجھے دِیوانہ مدینے کا بنا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The world is very inferior. Therefore, it will be very foolish to give importance to this world as it is not even equal to a wing of a mosquito before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, rather, it is like a farm (for planting good deeds) and the harvest will be in the Hereafter. If we sow seeds in the form of good deeds, then we shall reap their crops in the form of rewards. Therefore, instead of greedily increasing the bank balance and hoarding of wealth, or travelling by expensive cars, swindling people out of their properties and living a luxurious life, we should be pleased with the Divine Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and remain content with the blessings that He has granted us and we must protect ourselves from the pollution of greed.

Shaykh-ul-Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Greed is an extremely bad habit. A person should be content with whatever sustenance and blessings, possessions and wealth, honour and rank that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted him. The passion for being worried in the thought of attaining the blessings and wealth of others by making every kind of plan to attain it, is also called greed. Greed is in fact, an inborn quality of a human. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 110)

Dear Islamic brothers! Perform as many good deeds as possible to attain the blessings of the Hereafter instead of making efforts and desiring to attain worldly wealth and do not desire this world. Once, the blessed Companions humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Who is the best amongst us? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: ‘ اَزْہَدُکُمْ فِی الدُّنْیَاوَاَرْغَبُکُمْ فِی الْاٰخِرَۃِ ’ i.e. the best amongst you, is one who does not desire this world and desires the Hereafter a lot. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 343, Hadees 10521)

Commenting on the above-mentioned blessed Hadees, Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: One should dislike the world since it is mortal and flawed, and he should incline towards the eternal abode of the ‘Hereafter’. The wise man is he who protects himself from this mortal world and its filth and uses this world as his servant; he may indulge himself in worldliness according to his needs, thereafter he should abandon this world because when one does so then this mortal world becomes his servant, however, the more one chases this world, the further it drifts away from him as the shade of the sun follows one who walks facing the sun, if he turns his back to the sun, the shade goes ahead of him and if he attempts to catch the shade, it results in failure. (Fayz-ul-Qadeer, vol. 3, pp. 666, Hadees 4114)

دولتِ دُنیا سے بے رغبت مجھے کر دیجئے

میری حاجت سے مجھے زائد نہ کرنا مالدار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a fact that the one who runs after this world, never catches it, and instead, he becomes arrogant and disobedient because of this worldly love and attachment which makes him drift away from Islamic teachings. And the fortunate one who shows disinterest towards the world, then the world becomes a servant at his feet. If we want to get rid of the temptation of worldliness and if we want to develop the contemplation of the Hereafter, we should associate with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the virtue of this, one will be privileged to lead a life according to the Shari’ah and Sunnah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! A great number of pious, well-mannered and reputable people are associated with Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Mufti-e-Dawat-e-Islami, Al-Haafiz, Al-Qaari, Al-Haaj the late Muhammad Farooq Al-Attari Al-Madani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also one of them. He had many great qualities and noble virtues. He was an embodiment of humility, contentment, having fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, patience in the face of hardships, having keen interest in the recitation of glorious Quran, studied abundantly, had profound love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and he had a strong dislike towards worldliness. Along with the obligatory prayers, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was also practicing upon the Sunan and Mustahabbat (recommended deeds). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to respect the value of time, plus he was a great religious teacher and excellent Imam; furthermore, he was also fully engaged in the Madani activities such as calling people towards righteousness and travelling with Madani Qafilahs with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was incredibly obedient to the Madani Markaz. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had an immense love and devotion towards his spiritual guide; and his spiritual guide also showed deep affection towards him.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us steadfastness in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and while saving ourselves from sins, we may have privilege to carry out many good acts.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

یقیناً مُقدَّر کا وہ ہے سکندر

جسے خیر سے مل گیا مدنی ماحول

یہاں سُنّتیں سیکھنے کو ملیں گی

دِلائے گا خوفِ خدا مدنی ماحول

گنہگارو آؤ، سیہ کارو آؤ

گُناہوں کو دیگا چُھڑا مدنی ماحول

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The evil acts which the accursed Yazeed frequently committed are unfortunately widespread in our society nowadays. However, Shari’at-e-Islamiyah has condemned and mentioned the harms of all these acts such as drinking alcohol, listening to music and songs, dealing in usury, missing Salah etc. Let’s listen to some evil practices and their harms:

Drinking alcohol was another evil habit of Yazeed, however drinking alcohol is absolutely Haraam and to consider its drinking as Halal, is Kufr. Unfortunately, this evil act is becoming widespread in our society. Remember! Alcohol is the mother of all evils because after drinking alcohol, a person can easily commit every kind of sin. A drinker loses control over himself and forgets the difference between good and bad. What are the evil consequences of alcohol? Let’s listen to a blessed Hadees regarding this:

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘Refrain from the mother of evils (alcohol) because, in the time of the Bani Israel, there was a very pious man who used to live in seclusion. A woman fell in love with him and she sent her servant requesting him to become a witness in a certain case. The man went to her home. As he entered, the doors were shut behind him, until he came in front of a very beautiful and elegant lady. A boy was standing beside her and there was a glass jug containing alcohol. The woman said, ‘I have not called you here for giving any evidence. Instead, I want you to murder this boy, or indulge in fornication with me or drink this wine, and if you would

refuse, I will shout and disgrace you.’ The man thought that he had no option of getting out of this difficult situation, so he chose to drink the alcohol. The lady made him drink the wine. Out of intoxication, he kept on asking for more and more. He continued drinking until he committed fornication with the woman and also murdered the boy.’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said, ‘Therefore, you must continue refraining from alcohol. Iman (faith) and the habit of drinking alcohol cannot coexist in one’s heart; (if one will drink) then out of Iman and alcohol, one will remove the other.’

(Al-Ihsan bittarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 7, pp. 367, Hadees 5324)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you observed how filthy and destructive alcohol is! By drinking it, one easily falls into every kind of sin. Remember! Drinking alcohol brings about terrible consequences in the Hereafter as well as immense worldly disadvantages.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: The prohibition of alcohol by Islam contains countless physical and spiritual benefits. Even non-Muslims are admitting its ill-effects. Therefore, a non-Muslim researcher comments that though the human body is immune to the detrimental effects of alcohol in the beginning and the drinker enjoys it, after some time the immune system of the body is irreparably damaged, causing the harmful effects of alcohol to become permanent. Alcohol harms the liver the most, causing it to shrink. The kidneys are also badly affected, which eventually leads to their failure. Furthermore, heavy drinking also causes the swelling of the brain and nerves. As a result, the nerves weaken and lose its proper functioning. Alcohol causes swelling of the stomach and weakens the bones.

Alcohol also causes severe deficiency of vitamins in the body, especially of vitamin B and C. If a drinker is a smoker as well, then the harms of alcohol are even worse, giving rise to the danger of high blood pressure, stroke and a heart attack. A heavy drinker constantly suffers from tiredness, headaches, nausea and extreme thirst. If alcohol is drunk in a large quantity, it could cause the heart and the lungs to fail, which causes sudden death.

Dear Islamic brothers! How can one be saved from the destructions of alcohol? Let me tell you a method. Leave your bad friends and develop friendship with righteous people so that by virtue of this you could get rid of the evil of alcohol and other such evils. Currently, the environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a great source of obtaining righteous company which has led millions of bad people to repent and enter the straight path. We should also keep ourselves associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, we would witness positive changes in our lives.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ expresses his good wishes for the Muslim Ummah and shares the following Urdu couplet while giving advice to the people:

تُو نشے سے باز آ مت پی شراب

دو جہاں ہو جائیں گے ورنہ خراب

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another evil that Yazeed was indulged in, was listening to songs and music, whereas songs and music are strictly forbidden in Islam and are acts leading to Hell. But alas! This very evil is widely growing in our society; whether old or young, man or woman, perhaps the majority of them appear to have indulged in this evil. It seems that songs and music have crept into our veins as hardly any place is left which is not affected by it. Whether it is a home or hotel, shop or factory, car or bus, taxi etc. almost everything has fallen prey to the evil of music and songs. Similarly, baby swings and toys are designed with some kind of music and songs. Even in baby cots, musical toys are used to ease babies into sleep in their childhood period. When a child listens to music from such a little age, then how could he save himself from it after growing up?

Currently, listening to music through the mobile has become extremely easy, م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ ; in this modern age while one listens to music all day and night, he also commits impermissible and Haraam acts by making others listen to the

caller tune and various ring tones set by him in his phone. Alas, now in Masaajid, even during the Tawaf around the Holy Ka’bah, ringtones of people’s mobile phones with musical tunes continue ringing in the sacred Masjid-ul-Haraam, م َـعَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَـزَّوَجَـلَّ, whereas musical tunes are not permissible and is a sin even when one is not in a Masjid. (Therefore, this applies more strictly to those who are in the Masjid).

In this way, musical ring tones and the indecent words used in songs violate the sanctity of Masaajid and badly affect the pleasant environment of the Masjid, which contains Zikr, recitation of the Glorious Quran and Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’s. These musical tunes spoils the Khushu’ and Khudu’ (humility of body and presence of the heart and mind) of his own self but also of others.

Dear Islamic brothers! Listening to songs is impermissible and Haraam and an act leading to Hell. This evil act has been prohibited in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to three narrations regarding this:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will pour lead into the ears of the one sitting beside a female singer and listening to her attentively.

(Kanz-ul-Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 96, Hadees 40662)

2. Keep away from music, because it incites the feelings of lust, destroys shame, and it is like wine, it has the effectiveness of intoxication.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 280, Hadees 5108)

3. Song and amusement (anything that makes you neglectful of good deeds), grow hypocrisy in the heart as water grows greenery, I swear by the One in Whose Power is my life, indeed, the Quran and the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make faith grow in the heart as water grows green grass. (Al-Firdaus, vol. 3, pp. 115, Hadees 4319)

Dear Islamic brothers! By listening to the abovementioned narrations, it has been learnt that listening to songs and music is a Haraam act leading to Hell. But, alas, our modern thinkers and lovers of music have termed this fun and

pleasure as food for the soul whereas this horrible thing is a cause of heedlessness and prevents one from remembering Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is not a food for the soul at all, rather it destroys spirituality. The Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is a food for the soul as it is stated in the Blessed Quran:

اَ لَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡ ا وَ تَطۡمَئِنُّ قُلُوۡ بُہُمۡ بِذِکۡرِ اللّٰہِ ؕ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Those who accepted faith and whose hearts gain solace from the remembrance of Allah. (Part 13, Surah Ar-Ra’d, Ayah 28)

Remember! Music and songs are not the food for the soul, rather they ruin spirituality, kills the pleasure of Salah and acts of worship, destroys modesty and chastity, and encourages Muslim women to unveil. In fact, calling it as food for the soul is satanic. (Nayki ki Da’wat, pp. 488)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us from the destruction of songs and music and enable us to only listen to Na’at and the recitation of the Holy Quran, Sunnah-inspiring speeches, Madani Muzakarahs and the faith-refreshing programs of Madani Channel!

میں گانے باجوں اور فِلموں ڈِراموں کے گنہ چھوڑوں

پڑھوں نعتیں کروں اکثر تلاوت یا رسول الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One of the great sins of Yazeed was to promote the major sin of usury (interest); however, usury is absolutely Haraam and an act leading to Hell. The one who says that it is not Haraam, is an unbeliever and the one who takes or charges usury but knows that it is Haraam, is a transgressor and his testimony is not acceptable. But unfortunately, this evil is also spreading

rapidly in our society. If a needy person wants a loan, he goes to organizations which easily grant him a loan on interest, and he happily takes this loan, without even considering it to be an evil act. On such an occasion, if a religious Islamic brother tries to make them understand, then such statements are heard: ‘ O dear, what can we do? It is a compulsion. We are powerless, there is no choice except this; what can we do alone ; etc. however, this is not right, because neither are we powerless and compelled, nor are we left without any choice.

As far as ‘ what can we do alone ' is concerned, then at least we must try to develop the passion to reform ourselves. We should develop the passion to act upon it with courage and sincere intentions. Can the corrupt and oppressive system of the society be reformed only by empty slogans? Can a change be brought about in the society only by feeling sad? Of course not, rather, we must firstly change ourselves; we have to examine ourselves. You can go through the pages of history and see the wonderful achievements of the great commanders of Islam. Changes occurred only when revolutionary steps were taken.

The month of Muharram-ul-Haraam is showering its blessings. The great incident that occurred on the 10 th of this blessed month contains countless Madani pearls of Madani teaching for us. Millions of Salams be upon the great riders who were suffering great cruelties and torture, but none of them missed their Salah! Millions of Salams be upon the chaste women of the Honourable Ahl-e-Bayt, who were witnessing the bloodshed, but continued to act upon the Shari’ah! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to have wisdom, the passion for faith, for the sake of the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُم!

May I be sacrificed upon the Madani thought of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami that he has given us the great ‘Madani aim’ that if we intend to live our lives according to this Madani aim by acting upon it, then Masajid will be filled with Salah-offering people and Sunnah will be practised everywhere, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, in doing so, the slaves of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be able to overcome their sins. What is that ‘great Madani aim’? Let’s repeat it together: ‘ I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

کرم سے "نیکی کی دعوت" کا خُوب جذبہ دے

دُوں دُھوم سُنّتِ محبوب کی مچا یا ربّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We want to be cured without taking any medicine. It is necessary to eradicate usury and other evils from our society for economic prosperity, but remember, a society is made up of its people. As long as the people do not make efforts to reform themselves, the reformation of the entire society is difficult. Let’s listen to some condemnations of interest:

1. (The sin of) usury has seventy parts, amongst them the lowest level is that a person commits the act of fornication with his mother.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 72, Hadees 2275)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Though interest is abundant, its end is shortage. (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 2, pp. 109, Hadees 4026)

3. On the Day of Judgement, a usurer will be raised in such a state that he will be insane and Makhboot-ul-Hawaas. (Mu’jam Kabeer, vol. 18, pp. 60, Hadees 110)

4. Insanity spreads in a nation in which usury spreads. (Kitab-ul-Kaba`ir, pp. 70)

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘During the night of Mi’raaj, I came across such people whose stomachs were like houses with snakes in them, these were also visible from the outside of their stomachs. I asked Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام), ‘Who are these people?’ He replied, ‘They are usurers.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 3, pp. 72, Hadees 2273)

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, if a very small worm enters our stomach, we get sick and we have a very strange feeling. How will we tolerate this severe torment on the Day of Judgement? The usurers’ stomach will be as large as the room of a house with snakes, scorpions, etc. in it. How terrible the torment would be!

For further useful information about the condemnation of interest and its cure, immediately obtain the booklet ‘ Sood aur is ka Ilaj ’ [Interest and its Cure] published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, available from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Read it yourself and offer it as a gift to other Muslims with the intention to protect them from this sin and to attain rewards. You will receive many blessings, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! Take part enthusiastically in the 12 Zayli Madani works to refrain from sins and to propagate the calling towards righteousness. One of the Zayli Madani works is the Madani In’amaat. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی would not only take accountability of themselves but they would also persuade others to do so, as Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated, ‘O people, make accountability of your deeds before the Day of Judgment arrives and you are held accountable for them.’ (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 1, pp. 56)

In this sinful era, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has provided a tool for performing good deeds in the form of a questionnaire namely ‘Madani In’amaat’, a comprehensive blend of Shari’ah and Tareeqah. There are 72 Madani In’amaat for Islamic brothers, 63 for Islamic sisters, 92 for male Islamic students, 83 for female Islamic students, 40 for Madani children. Similarly, Madani In’amaats have also been designed for special Islamic brothers (i.e. blind, mute and deaf) and prisoners. Madani In’amaat cards can be obtained from any branch of Maktaba-tul-Madinah. After thoroughly going through them, you will be aware that it is a systematic program of self-accountability. By the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, hurdles in the path

of becoming pious as well as avoiding sins are removed by virtue of acting upon the Madani In’amaat.

An Islamic brother of New Karachi has stated: The Masjid Imam of my area who is associated with Dawat-e-Islami, made individual efforts upon my brother and gifted him with a Madani In’amaat booklet. My brother brought this booklet home and was amazed to read it, since this brief booklet contains an excellent formula for a Muslim to live his life. Through the blessings of receiving a Madani In’amaat booklet, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he drew inspiration to perform Salah and went to the Masjid to offer Salah with Jama’at. Now, he regularly offers all five Salahs, he has grown a beard and he fills in the Madani In’amaat booklet.

Dear Islamic brothers! One of the evil deeds which the accursed Yazeed was committing was that he never offered Salah and if he ever offered Salah, then he would offer Salah as Qada, though to offer Salah as Qada is also a sin. Furthermore, if someone does not offer it, then this is a bigger sin. Currently, this sin is also widespread.

Firstly, the majority of Muslims are heedless of performing Salah and are inclined to violating the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and for the rest of the Muslims who do perform their Salah, no one knows how many of them perform their Salah with sincerity or with no true sincerity? No one knows how many Muslims take care of Khushu’ and Khudu’ (fear and humility whilst in Salah) and how many Muslims think about their friends, business, houses, etc., in their Salah instead of Khushu’ and Khudu’? No one knows how many Muslims take care of the Sunan, Waajibaat and other factors of Salah and how many Muslims focus on their necessities, desires and plans during Salah?

Remember, among the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Salah has a great importance which can be understood from this that the first question among the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to be asked on the Day of Judgement, will be about Salah. It is

stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَا یُحَاسَبُ بِہِ الْعَبْدُ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ صَلَاتُہ ’ i.e., the first question on the Day of Judgement will be about Salah.

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated regarding this blessed Hadees, undoubtedly Salah is a symbol of Iman (faith) and it is the main act of worship. (At-Tayseer Sharh Jami-us-Sagheer, vol. 1, pp. 391)

Dear Islamic brothers! Salah is a very great act of worship. The act of Salah leads its worshippers to Jannah; Salah is the best act of worship of a Mu`min (believer), Salah is Noor (luminosity); Jannah becomes Wajib for those who offer 2 Rak’aat Salah with Khushu’ and Khudu’ (fear and humility); two Rak’aat Salah is better than the world; Salah is the most favourite of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; in return of each Sajdah of Salah, one virtue is recorded, one sin is wiped away and one rank is raised. A Salah-offering person will be made to enter Jannah with peace on the Day of Judgement. Salah wipes away sins and the filth of sins, one Salah wipes away the sins committed in the span between the present and last Salah; a Salah-offering person passes his night in peace and tranquillity; Salah wipes away evils. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to offer five-time Salah daily in the first row of the Masjid with the first Takbeer and may we be enabled to offer Nafl Salah as well!

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just exposed some sins and we have heard about their harmful effects, which were propagated by the accursed Yazeed. Remember! A sin is harmful whether it is minor or major. It is so harmful and destructive that one can understand this from the following narration:

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated that do not misunderstand the saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

مَنۡ جَآءَ بِالۡحَسَنَۃِ فَلَہٗ عَشۡرُ اَمۡثَا لِہَا ۚ وَ مَنۡ جَآءَ بِا لسَّیِّئَۃِ فَلَا یُجۡزٰۤی اِلَّا مِثۡلَہَا وَ ہُمۡ لَا یُظۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿ ۱۶۰ ﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: For one who brings one good deed, ten for him there are like it; and one who brings an ill-deed, will not be recompensed but with one like it. (Part 8, Surah Al-In’aam, Ayah 160)

Even if the sin is just one, it brings forth ten evil effects with it:

1. A person displeases Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by committing sins, and indeed Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Capable of punishing.

2. The one who commits sins makes Satan happy.

3. He distances himself from Paradise.

4. He gets closer to Hell.

5. He harms his own life – the most precious thing.

6. He corrupts his Baatin (pure Nafs).

7. He causes hurt to Kiraman Katibeen [i.e. angels writing his deeds].

8. Such an individual saddens the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his blessed shrine.

9. He makes all the creation of earth and the Heavens a witness to his disobedience.

10. He breaches the trust of all humans and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The evil effects of sins also bring about various types of harms and disadvantages in this world, some of them are mentioned below:

1. Reduction in sustenance.

2. He is overwhelmed by calamities.

3. Life is reduced.

4. Health deteriorates after a sudden weakness of the heart and all over the body.

1. Remains deprived of acts of worship.

2. Loss of wisdom.

3. Gets humiliated in the eyes of people.

4. The growth of his crops and orchards is reduced.

5. Gets deprived of blessings.

6. Gets frustrated and worried all the time.

7. Falls into an incurable disease at once.

8. Gets accursed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, His blessed Angels, His Ambiya عَـلَيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and His pious people.

9. The Noor of Iman fades away from his face.

10. Loses the sense of honour and shame.

11. Gets surrounded by humiliation, dishonour and failures.

12. Does not utter the Kalimah at the time of death, etc.

These are some of the curses of sins that bring about great worldly loss.

(Jannati Zaywar, pp.143)

آہ! ہر لمحہ گنہ کی کثرت اور بھرمار ہے

غلبۂ شیطان ہے اور نفسِ بد اَطوار ہے

مُجرموں کے واسطے دوزخ بھی شُعلہ بار ہے

ہر گنہ قصداً کیا ہے اسکا بھی اِقرار ہے

ہائے! نافرمانیاں بدکاریاں بے باکیاں

آہ! نامے میں گُناہوں کی بڑی بھر مار ہے

چُھپ کے لوگوں سے گناہوں کا رہا ہے سلسلہ

تیرے آگے یا خدا ہر جُرم کا اظہار ہے

زندگی کی شام ڈھلتی جا رہی ہے ہائے نفس!

گرم روز و شب گُناہوں کاہی بس بازار ہے

بندۂ بدکار ہوں بے حد ذلیل و خوار ہوں

مغفرت فرما الٰہی! تُو بڑا غفار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Today, we have heard about the evil character of the accursed Yazeed. It is a fact that accursed Yazeed was a cruel and insensitive man of bad character. He propagated many sinful practices such as drinking wine, usury, songs and music, animal fighting etc. This accursed person never offered Salah and if he ever offered it, he offered Salah after its stipulated time. All these above-mentioned evils were very widespread.

Therefore, not only we, but also our future generations must boycott these evil practices, which were found in the accursed Yazeed, and we should keep ourselves away from the love of this world and sins. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us from the love of this world and the greed for wealth! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ develop the love of Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in our hearts and enable us to follow in his footsteps! Aameen

اُن دو کا صدقہ جن کوکہا میرے پھُول ہیں

کیجے رضاؔ کو حشر میں خنداں مثالِ گُل

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. When meeting a Muslim, it is Sunnah t o make Salam to him .

2. There is reward for making Salam to Muslims no matter how many times you meet in a day, even if one leaves and enters a room frequently.

3. It is a Sunnah to be the first in making Salam.

4. The one who makes Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

5. The one who makes Salam first is free from pride, as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who makes Salam first, is free from pride.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 433)

6. Ninety mercies descend upon the one who makes Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

7. One receives 10 virtues for saying ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾, 20 virtues if ﴿ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ ﴾ is added and 30 if ﴿ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ is also added.

8. Similarly, one can receive 30 virtues by replying with ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهٗ ﴾ .

9. It is Wajib [obligatory] to immediately reply to a Salam in a voice audible to the one who made the Salam.

10. Learn the correct pronunciation of Salam and the reply of Salam . First, I will say it; then you repeat it after me ﴿ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْـكُمْ ﴾ كُمْ ﴾ – عَلَے – مُ – سَلَا – ﴿ اَسْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, ﴿ وَ عَلَيْـكُمُ السَّلَام ﴾ سَلَام ﴾ – مُسْ – لَیْكُ – عَ – ﴿ وَ .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

***

Click here to read

