اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Fasts of Pious People

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one who recites Salat upon me, his Salat reaches me. I make Istighfar for him, and besides this, 10 virtues are recorded for him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 446, Raqm 1642)

گرچہ ہیں بے حد قُصور تم ہو عَفُوّ و غَفور

بخش دو جُرم و خطا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed the great blessed month full of mercies, blessings i.e. the blessed Ramadan one more time upon us. Today is the first Ijtima’ of the month of Ramadan-ul-Mubarak. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to take the full blessings of this sacred month! If only we could succeed in observing all the fasts with spiritual and apparent manners, in offering Salahs, Nawafil and Taraweeh Salahs with extreme fear and humility! May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to recite the Holy Quran with great passion!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Saalih رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated from Sayyiduna Khulayd Bin Hassaan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to observe Nafl fasts in very hot weather. One day at the time of Iftari we went to him with food. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted to break his fast with our food, someone recited this verse of the Holy Quran:

اِنَّ لَدَیۡنَاۤ اَنۡکَالًا وَّ جَحِیۡمًا ﴿ۙ۱۲﴾ وَّ طَعَامًا ذَ ا غُصَّۃٍ وَّ عَذَ ابًا اَلِیۡمًا ﴿٭۱۳﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed We have heavy shackles and a blazing fire. And food that chokes, and a painful punishment.

(Part 29, Surah Al-Muzzammil, verse 12, 13)

Having heard this verse he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped his hand from eating that food and did not eat even a single morsel and said: Get this food away from here. On the second day again, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه observed a fast. When food was placed

in front of him at the time of Iftar, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه recalled that verse again. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not eat a single morsel and said: Get this food away from me. Likewise, on the third day, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه intended to observe fast without eating anything.

When his son saw his condition that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent three days without eating and drinking anything, he got worried and went to the renowned saints of that time Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani, Sayyiduna Yahya and other Islamic saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and humbly said: Your honour! Please come to help my father as soon as possible. He has observed fast for 3 consecutive days by drinking only a few mouthfuls of water and has not eaten a single morsel of food for 3 days. Whenever we give him food for Sahari or Iftari, he recalls this blessed verse of the Holy Quran:

اِنَّ لَدَیۡنَاۤ اَنۡکَالًا وَّ جَحِیۡمًا ﴿ۙ۱۲﴾ وَّ طَعَامًا ذَ ا غُصَّۃٍ وَّ عَذَ ابًا اَلِیۡمًا ﴿٭۱۳﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed We have heavy shackles and a blazing fire. And food that chokes, and a painful punishment.

(Part 29, Surah Al-Muzzammil, verse 12, 13)

As he recalls this blessed verse, he refuses to eat food. For Allah’s sake! Come with me quickly and solve this problem. Having heard this, all these great people came to Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When the time of Iftari arrived, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه again recalled the same blessed verse and refused to eat food, but upon the insistence of Sayyiduna Saabit Bunaani, Sayyiduna Yahya and other Islamic saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with great difficulty agreed to drink water containing Sattu, thus upon their insistence on the third day he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had Sattu to drink. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 370)

مجھ کو بُھوک و پیاس سہنے کی خُدا توفیق دے

گُم تِری یادوں میں رَہنے کی سَدا توفیق دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed the excellent Madani thought of the pious people regarding acts of worship and their devotion to fasts that no matter how the weather was, whether it suited them or not, even in very hot weather they used to bear hunger and thirst happily. These great people رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to have only one thing on their mind, and that was to attain the pleasure and closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . As it is obvious from the above-mentioned parable that Sayyiduna Imam Hasan Basri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had so much devotion to fasts, that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to observe it even in very hot weather. But unfortunately today a large number of people do not observe fasts, making lame excuses of hot weather.

Undoubtedly, the pious people had a belief that the heat on the plains of Mahshar and of Hell is far more intense than the worldly heat. The fortunate people, who after bearing worldly heat succeed in observing fasts in this world for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, will be in peace in the Hereafter. Therefore, in hot weather whether it is the mandatory fasts of Ramadan or Nafl fasts we should keep in mind that the more we feel the warmth of heat and the intensity of hunger and thirst, the more we will be rewarded, provided that we remain patient on them, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It has been narrated: اَفۡضَلُ الۡعِبَادَاتِ اَحۡـمَزُهَا, the best worship is that which has more hardship. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 685)

Imam Sharafuddin Nawavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If there is more hardship and expenses in acts of worship, they will have more reward and excellence as well. (Sharh Nawavi, Juz: 8, vol. 4, pp. 152)

Furthermore, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The more difficult a good deed will be in the world, the heavier it will be on the scale of good deeds on the Day of Judgement. (Tazkira-tul-Awliya, pp. 95)

عاصیوں کی مغفرت کا لیکر آیا ہے پیام

جھوم جاؤ مجرمو! رمضاں مہِ غُفران ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Islamic brothers! Since our Nafs wants comforts and luxury, and it is annoyed with hardship of acts of worship. For example, when a Muslim tries to observe a fast, then through different plots, the Nafs tries to abstain from observing fasts by reminding him of different reasons such as, it is very hot now, circumstances are not good, how will you perform your work, you will fall ill, observe the fast on another day etc. therefore, we should try not to be deceived by our Nafs. We should never miss the Fard fasts without any Shar’i reason whether they are in cold weather or in very hot weather, but rather we should have in mind the Divine gifts we may get in exchange of observing these fasts. In His Pure Book, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ not only has mentioned those men and women who observe fasts, but He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has also blessed them with the great good news of forgiveness and great gifts:

اِنَّ الۡمُسۡلِمِیۡنَ وَ الۡمُسۡلِمٰتِ وَ الۡمُؤۡمِنِیۡنَ وَ الۡمُؤۡمِنٰتِ وَ الۡقٰنِتِیۡنَ وَ الۡقٰنِتٰتِ وَ الصّٰدِقِیۡنَ وَ الصّٰدِقٰتِ وَ الصّٰبِرِیۡنَ وَ الصّٰبِرٰتِ وَ الۡخٰشِعِیۡنَ وَ الۡخٰشِعٰتِ وَ الۡمُتَصَدِّقِیۡنَ وَ الۡمُتَصَدِّقٰتِ وَ الصَّآئِمِیۡنَ وَ الصّٰٓئِمٰتِ وَ الۡحٰفِظِیۡنَ فُرُوۡجَہُمۡ وَ الۡحٰفِظٰتِ وَ الذّٰکِرِیۡنَ اللّٰہَ کَثِیۡرًا وَّ الذّٰکِرٰتِ ۙ اَعَدَّ اللّٰہُ لَہُمۡ مَّغۡفِرَ ۃً وَّ اَجۡرًا عَظِیۡمًا ﴿۳۵﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed the Muslim men and Muslim women, and the believing men and the believing women, and the men who obey and the women who obey, and the truthful men and the truthful women, and the patient men and the patient women, and the humble men and the humble women, and charitable men and the charitable women, and the fasting men and the fasting women, and the men who guard their chastity and the women who guard their chastity, and the men who profusely remember Allah and the women who profusely remember Allah – for all of them, Allah has kept prepared forgiveness and an immense reward. (Part 22, Surah Al-Ahzaab, verse 35)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In the Holy Quran people who fast are praised and are given the good news of being forgiven and being blessed with great reward, similarly blessed Ahadees are also enriched with the treasure of excellence of fasts which contains different good news for fasting people. In this regard, let’s listen to three blessed sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. The person who observes a mandatory fast in the path of Allah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep him away from Hell at such a distance as is between all seven earths and skies. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 17, pp. 120, Hadees 295)

2. The person who observes a fast on any day for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, his end (death) will be on it and he will enter Paradise.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 90, Hadees 23384)

3. The person who observes fast for a day for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeps him away from Hell at such a distance as a crow covers by flying continuously from its birth to its old age until it dies.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 3, pp. 619, Hadees 10810)

Regarding this Hadees, a renowned commentator, a great thinker of Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The age of a crow is 1000 years and it flies very fast. Here it has been stated to mention the extreme distance from Hell that if the baby of a crow starts flying after its birth and continues to fly until it dies i.e. for a thousand (1000) years, then imagine how far it can reach. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep the fasting person at such a distance from Hell.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 197)

نماز و روزہ وحَجّ و زکوٰۃ کی توفیق

عطا ہو اُمّتِ محبوب کو سَدا یا رَبّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard the great excellence of observing fasts in the blessed Hadees and the Holy Quran that not only do fasting people have forgiveness and a great reward, but they also have the good news of a good end (death). Therefore, we should also develop the passion for observing the great worship like fasting for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in our hearts, or rather, in this regard, we should follow the footstep of the pious people as they did not worry if it was hot or cold weather, being hungry and thirsty due to observing fasts. Instead, they used to fast even in extremely hot weather. Regarding this, let’s listen to a parable by virtue of which the passion for observing fast will also develop in us, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Sayyiduna Abu Musa Ash’ari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Once we were travelling through the sea for Jihad; our ship was advancing towards its destination. In the meantime, a voice from the Ghayb surprised everyone; someone was saying, ‘O people in the ship! Stop! Let me tell you a very important thing.’ The same voice was heard six to seven times. I stood on the terrace of the ship and said, ‘Who are you and where are you? Do you know where we are right now? How can we stay in the centre of the sea?’ I had just completed saying this when the voice of a very strange preacher echoed, ‘Shouldn’t I tell you about the thing which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made compulsory for Himself?’ I replied, ‘Why not? Do tell us about such a thing.’ A voice said, ‘Listen! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made this thing compulsory for Himself that the person who keeps himself thirsty (in the state of fasting) for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in hot days, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give him water in the fatal heat of the Day of Judgement.’ Then Sayyiduna Abu Musa Ash’ari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ made a routine that he would observe fast in such extremely hot days, in which a person feels extremely uncomfortable due to the intensity of the heat.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 2, pp. 345)

دو جہاں کی نعمتیں ملتی ہیں روزہ دار کو

جو نہیں رکھتا ہے روزہ وہ بڑا نادان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Thinking about our Hereafter we should also remember the intense heat and thirst of the Day of Judgement. We should not care for the slight heat of this world regarding the mandatory fasts of the blessed Ramadan, but we should be busy preparing for the long journey of the Hereafter by offering Salahs, fasting, giving Sadaqah (charity) and performing lots of good deeds as long as we are alive.

It has been narrated: ‘ اَلدُّنْیَا مَزْرَعَۃُ الْاٰخِرَۃِ ’, i.e. this world is a farm of the Hereafter . Therefore, whatever we plant in this world, we will reap in the Hereafter. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, if we keep in mind the heat and horror of the Hereafter, then it will become easy to observe fasts in the heat of this world.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ: O Abu Zar! When you intend to go on a (worldly) journey, you prepare yourself for it. What do you think about (the preparation of) the journey of the Hereafter? (i.e. how important is it to prepare for the journey of the Hereafter compared to the preparation of a worldly journey?) O Abu Zar! Shouldn’t I tell about the things that will benefit you that day? It was humbly asked, ‘May my parents be sacrificed for you! Do tell us.’ It was said, ‘Observe fast in extremely hot days for the day on the Day of Judgement; for the horror of the grave, offer two Rak’aat in the darkness of the night; for big matters (which happen to us) perform Hajj and give Sadaqah by giving something to a Miskeen (poor person) or by saying the right thing or by remaining silent from anything bad.

(Mawsu’ah li Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 1, pp. 247, Hadees 10)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard that our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made an individual effort upon his beloved companion Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in a beautiful manner and bestowed precious Madani pearls of the journey of the Hereafter upon him by giving him the example of a journey in this world. It has also been learnt through this blessed Hadees that the way a person keeps the necessary things with him when he sets out for his worldly journey, similarly, before setting out for the journey to the Hereafter, he must accumulate good deeds which will be useful for him.

The pieces of advice which have been mentioned in this blessed Hadees regarding the preparation for the journey of the Hereafter are so effective that Sayyiduna Abu Zar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ passed them to others in the same manner after he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had heard it from the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Sufyan Sawri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Sayyiduna Abu Zar Ghifari رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, whilst standing beside the Ka’bah, called out, ‘O people! I am Jundub Ghifari; come here to your well-wishing kind brother.’ When all the people gathered around him, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ asked them, ‘Tell me if any of you intend to go for a journey, will you not get provisions with you that will be useful for you and will take you to your destination?’ All humbly said, ‘Yes, why not.’ Then he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said (advising them to remain safe from the greed for the world and develop the greed for the Hereafter): ‘Certainly, the journey of the afterlife is much longer than the journey you have intended to undertake, so get those things for the journey that may benefit you.’ People asked about those things. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Perform Hajj for great purposes; observe fast in very hot weather keeping in mind the long day of the Day of Judgement; offer Nawafil in the darkness of the night in order to be safe from the horror of the grave; keeping in mind the act of standing on that Big Day, say good things and refrain from bad things; give Sadaqah from your wealth in the hope of being safe from the difficulties of the Day of Judgement.

(Saffa-tus-Safwah, Juz: 1, vol. 1, pp. 301, Raqm 64)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should get into the habit of offering at least some Nawafil in the night for the betterment of our Hereafter and protection from the darkness of the grave by acting upon these pieces of advice. We should always give Sadaqah and charity as per our financial ability. By observing Qufl-e-Madinah of the tongue, we should protect our tongue from speaking anything unnecessary and when needed, we should speak only good things. Furthermore, in order to seek protection from the scorching heat of the Day

of Judgement we should observe fasts in hot weather. Due to the thought of the Hereafter, our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to observe fast abundantly as some of them used to spend many years observing fasts continuously.

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would always observe Nafl fasts. Having taken rest during the initial part of the night, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would spend the rest of the night for Qiyam (worship).

(Musannaf Ibn Abi Shaybah, vol. 2, pp. 173, Raqm 6)

Sayyiduna Aswad Bin Yazeed رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would make lots of effort in worships and spiritual exercises. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would worship so much and would fast abundantly that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even turned light green and yellow in complexion. (‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 1, pp. 51)

Sayyiduna Dawood Taa`ee رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه observed fasts continuously for forty years. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so sincere in his worship that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not even let his family know about his fasts. While going to work he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would take lunch with him and give it to someone on his way. After Maghrib, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would return home and eat food. (Ma’dan-e-Akhlaq, part 1, pp. 182)

Sayyiduna Mansoor Bin Mu’tamir رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent 60 years worshipping at night and fasting in the day. (152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat, pp. 78)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Shaykh ‘Imaaduddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great jurist and Mufti. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great worshipper and a pious person. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would observe Nafl fasts and offer Nafl Salah abundantly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would observe a fast after one day gap. (152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat, pp. 260)

Sayyiduna ‘Isa Bin Zaazaan Ubulli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to observe fasts abundantly due to which his back became bent and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lost his voice.

(152 Rahmat-Bhari Hikayaat, pp. 272)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard how enthusiastic our pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی had been that they observed fasts for 40 years, 60 years, or rather some observed fasts throughout their lives. The state of their sincerity was that they did not use to inform their family members about their fasts. Therefore, we should also observe the Nafl fasts of Rajab-ul-Murajjab, Sha’ban-ul-Mu’azzam, Shash Eid (six fasts after Eid-ul-Fitr), Monday, Thursday and days of Bayd (i.e. 13, 14, 15 of the Madani month) etc. in addition to the mandatory fasts of blessed Ramadan as Nafl fasts also have lots of excellences.

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: If someone observes a Nafl fast and (even if he) is given the whole earth full of gold (as a reward) his reward will still remain incomplete, he will be given his reward on the Day of Judgement only.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 5, pp. 353, Hadees 6104)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه also loves Nafl fasts. That’s why he observes fasts very often except the days of the year in which a fast is prohibited. In addition to this, he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه not only observes fasts throughout the month of Rajab-ul-Murajjab and other sacred months along with the fast of every blessed Monday, but also persuades other Islamic brothers to do so. By virtue of his persuasion many Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters are privileged either to observe the fasts of the whole Rajab-ul-Murajjab, or they observe fasts most of the days of Rajab-ul-Murajjab. Furthermore, there is a large number of those Islamic brothers who also fast on the blessed Monday.

Dear Islamic brothers! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for becoming righteous and making others righteous, attaining success in the world and the Hereafter, refraining from immodesty in the society, observing fasts steadfastly without any worry of hot days and for developing the passion for Nafl fasts in the heart. In order to further develop righteous acts, take part enthusiastically in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. One of the Madani activities of the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is ‘Yaum-e-Tateel for I’tikaf’. Therefore, all Islamic brothers are requested to observe ‘Yaum-e-Tateel I’tikaf’ for earning Sawab.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! This I’tikaf is observed in a Masjid which also fills Masajid with those who offer Salah. By virtue of respecting the Masjid and abstaining from every type of disrespect, every moment we spend in the Masjid will be considered to be in worship. To love the Masjid and to spend more time in it have great excellences.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When you see someone coming and going abundantly to a Masjid, then bear witness of his faith, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said:

اِنَّمَا یَعۡمُـرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰہِ مَنۡ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰہِ وَ الۡیَوۡ مِ الۡاٰخِرِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the Masajid of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, verse 18)

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who loves the Masjid, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes him His beloved. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 2, pp. 135, Raqm 2031)

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s sinful time, the global non-political Masjid-filling movement of preaching Quran and Sunnah, Dawat-e-Islami is providing a Sunnah-inspiring pure environment, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ,

having been associated with this Madani environment countless sinners have been able to repent of their sins and have started offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnah regularly and are living their lives as practicing Muslims of good-character. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, currently, keeping in mind the regularity of Salah and fasts and the respect and reverence for Masajid, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is playing a very important role in filling the Masjid. Therefore, if we also want to develop love for Masajid, have the privilege of filling them with Salah-offering people and want to correct our beliefs and deeds by Islamic knowledge, then we should have the privilege of observing Ijtima’ee I’tikaf at different venues arranged by Dawat-e-Islami as we have a great opportunity in the form of blessed Ramadan.

No one knows whether or not they will be privileged to experience blessed Ramadan again next year. The I’tikaf of the whole month of blessed Ramadan is being observed in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in different cities and countries, therefore, all Islamic brothers should have the privilege to attend it, otherwise they should try to observe I’tikaf at least of the last ten days. For persuasion, let me tell you a Madani parable out of the blessings of observing I’tikaf in the Madani environment. Listen to it and rejoice and make an intention to observe I’tikaf in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in this sacred month of Ramadan.

It is stated on page 507 of the 693-page book ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan ’ [Blessings of Ramadan], published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah – the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

Sixty-year-old uncle Kaalu from Madina-tul-Awliya, Ahmadabad, Gujrat, India, attended the collective I’tikaf organized by Dawat-e-Islami during the last ten days of Ramadan (2004, 1425 A.H.) in Shahi Masjid, Shah Aalam, Ahmadabad. Even though he was already associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, but this was the first time that he attended the collective I’tikaf with lovers of the Beloved Rasool. He learnt a lot during the I’tikaf and started offering Salah in the first row of the Masjid enthusiastically, which is the second Madani In’aam out of 72 Madani In’amaat.

On the 2 nd of Shawwal, the second day of Eid-ul-Fitr, he travelled with a Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah for 3 days in the company of the lovers of Beloved Rasool. On the 11 th of Shawwal 1425 AH (2004), just five or six days after he had returned from the Madani Qafilah, he went to the market to purchase something. As there was the possibility of missing the first row of the Jama’at in the Masjid in case of staying in the market any longer, he reached the Masjid before the Azan went, by immediately leaving the market. As soon as he stood up after performing his Wudu, he suddenly fell to the ground, recited the Kalimah and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi and passed away.

اِنَّا لِلّٰہِ وَ اِ نَّاۤ اِلَیۡہِ رٰجِعُوْنَ

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Due to the blessings of the collective I’tikaf, the enthusiasm for acting upon the second Madani In’aam of performing Salah in the first row took uncle Kaalu from the market’s environment of heedlessness to the merciful atmosphere of the Masjid where he was blessed with the privilege of reciting the Kalimah and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi at the time of his death.

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The one reciting Kalimah at the time of death will succeed in the grave as well as on the Day of Resurrection as the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one whose last words are لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ will enter Heaven.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 132, Hadees 3116)

Listen to further blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami: A few days after the death of uncle Kaalu, his son had a dream in which he saw his late uncle Kaalu wearing white clothes and a green ‘Imamah (turban), he said with a smile, ‘Son! Keep doing the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami as I have been blessed due to the blessings of this Madani movement.’

مَوت فضلِ خُدا سے ہو ایمان پر مدنی ماحول میں کرلو تم اِعتِکاف

رَبّ کی رَحمت سے پاؤ گے جنّت میں گھر مدنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اِعتِکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

No matter how hot the summer is, even a single mandatory fast should not be missed at all without any Shar’i reason. If we keep in mind our pious predecessors’ manners of worship and we make just a little effort, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, instead of facing difficulties we will feel pleasure in the fasts of summer. There were so many pious people who either would spend fasting the whole year or would spend fasting most of the days of the year, especially for the fasts in hot weather, they used to feel so much pleasure that if they had any kind of grief at the time of their death, it would have been this that they would not be privileged anymore to experience the pleasure of the fasts of hot weather.

دو جہاں کی نعمتیں ملتی ہیں روزہ دار کو

جو نہیں رکھتا ہے روزہ وہ بڑا نادان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to more incidents of those who fear Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, regarding their passion for worship and fasting in hot weather so that we may also develop the passion for this.

When the time of Sayyiduna Mu’aaz Bin Jabal’s death approached, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly submitted a request to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have Your fear [throughout my life] and today I have hopes from You. O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! You know that I did not love this world and to live in it for a long time for digging streams and planting trees, but rather I loved a long life so that I could bear the intensity of thirst in severe hot days (in fasting), to bear great pains in long nights (by worshipping) and could sit on my knees before the Islamic scholars in gatherings of Islamic knowledge. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 573)

At the time of his death, Sayyiduna Yazeed Raqqaashi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started weeping, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was humbly asked: Why are you weeping? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I am weeping for the reason that now I will not be blessed

anymore with the opportunity of worshipping in the nights, fasting during the days and attending the gatherings of Zikr. (Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn, pp. 132)

Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that Sayyiduna ‘Aamir Bin ‘Abd-e-Qays رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started weeping at the time of his death. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was asked the reason for his weeping, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: I am not weeping for the fear of death or for the love of this world, but rather I am weeping for being separated from the afternoon thirst of the fasts of summer and Nafl Salah in the long nights of winter.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 575)

You have just heard that these blessed people would love the intense thirst of the fasts of intense hot weather that they were weeping at the time of their death as to how they would get the taste of the intensity of thirst of the fasts of hot weather after their death. They would offer Salahs and observe fasts so abundantly, that it seemed as if they had not taken any interest in any worldly things.

Sayyiduna Mus’ab Bin Saabit رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was very pious and used to worship a lot, would offer 1000 Nawafil daily and would always observe fast.

(‘Uyoon-ul-Hikayaat, part 2, pp. 324)

Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that one worshipper fell ill, so we visited him. He started feeling sad by sighing deeply. I asked him: Why are you feeling sad? He replied: For the night which I spent by sleeping and for the day I did not fast and for the moment I was heedless of the Zikr of Allah. (Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn, pp. 133)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder over those who due to a little heedlessness in their Nafl Salahs and Nafl fasts in their life were so sad at the time of their death, so how can we imagine that they would be lazy in Fard Salahs and Fard fasts. Just ponder over the difference between us and them as generally we, at the time of death, feel sad because of leaving this world and they feel sad because of being deprived of worship. We only think about

worldly betterment, but these great personages think about the grave, Day of Judgement and the Hereafter. For us, life is colourless without worldly luxury and wealth and for those pious people life is colourless without Salahs, fasts and other acts of worship.

Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to say: If there were not three things, I would prefer death. It was humbly asked: What are those three things? He replied: To perform Sajdahs before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ day and night, to remain thirsty in very hot days (i.e. to observe fast) and to sit in the gatherings of those who speak good things as nicely as we choose nice fruit.

(Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer, pp. 324, Hadees 870)

Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said: I like three things in the world: (1) ‘ اَلضَّرْبُ بِالسَّیْفِ ’ i.e. to perform Jihad with the sword (2) ‘ اَلصَّوْمُ بِالصَّیْفِ ’, to observe fast in summer and (3) ‘ اِکْرَامُ الضَّیْفِ ’, to extend hospitality to a guest.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 62, pp. 264)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to more virtues and rewards for fasts.

Faqih Abul Lays Samarqandi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: On the Day of Judgement people will be raised hungry and thirsty from their graves, the person who observed Nafl fast in the hot days of summer, for him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will send Heavenly food and drinks; his fast will come and will give him a goblet full of water keeping people away from Hawd (pond).

(Qurra-tul-‘Uyoon, pp. 396, Raqm 202)

After the burial of Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Ghalib Haddaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه the fragrance of musk used to emanate from the soil of his blessed grave. Someone saw him in a dream and asked: ‘ مَا صُنِعْتَ ؟ ’ i.e. How were you treated? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I was treated well. It was asked: Where were you taken? It was replied: To Paradise. It was asked: For which deed? It was replied: For perfect faith, Tahajjud and fasts of summer. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was then asked: Why is the fragrance of musk emanating from your grave? So it was replied: It is the fragrance of my recitation and the thirst of fasts.

(Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 266, Hadees 8553)

The Leader of the believers, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to one of the Prophets of Bani Israel commanding him to inform his Ummah that if anyone fasts a day for My pleasure, I will grant him good health and reward him greatly.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 3, pp. 411, Hadees 3923)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has written on page 105 of his book ‘ Faizan-e-Ramadan ’ [Blessings of Ramadan]:

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in the book Al-Malfooz (part 2, page 143), ‘Once I saw my respected father Sayyiduna Maulana Naqi ‘Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in my dream a few weeks before Ramadan. He said, ‘Son, you will fall severely ill in the following Ramadan, but be careful, you should not miss even a single fast.’

As my father predicted, I really fell severely ill in Blessed Ramadan but I did not miss even a single fast. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted me health by the blessing of fasts. The Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ صُوۡمُوۡا تَصِحُّوۡا ’ Observe fast; you will get healthy .’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 6, pp. 147, Hadees 8312)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed the excellent method that Islam has bestowed upon us to attain the blessing of health and to attain lots of Sawab, that the person who for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ observes only one fast, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blesses him with health along with an excellent reward! Just ponder when this is the reward for just one fast, then who can guess the reward and the gifts which are given to the fortunate ones, who observe fast for the whole month of blessed Ramadan, by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?

Alas! Some people have been heard saying that we fast in such-and-such a month or fast the whole month of Ramadan regularly, but instead of being healthy we fall ill and cannot do anything while fasting; we feel as if our body has become lifeless etc. Remember! This has absolutely nothing to do with fasts, but rather problems lie in us. For example, some people eat and drink more than they should, in this way if they put more burden on their stomachs and eat fatty, oily and spicy foods, butter loaves, burgers, barbecue items, Samosas, rolls, pakoras, cold drinks, biryani and many other such foods too much in Sahari and Iftari, then how many things can the stomach digest? As a result, the digestive system will get disturbed; the stomach will become upset and will cause illnesses to the body.

As our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has rightly stated, ‘The stomach is like a pond in the body and the veins are the streams which proceed towards this pond. If the stomach is healthy, the veins return with health and if the stomach is ill, the veins return with disease.’

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 66, Hadees 5796)

Therefore, one should be very careful when whether fasting or not. Furthermore, one should avoid working more than his normal strength in fasts, because if he works more than his strength in the state of fasting, it will leave bad effects upon his body and it will become difficult for him to observe fast or to accomplish the work whilst fasting. Unfortunately, in Ramadan, due to the greed of earning money some unwise Muslims instead of worshipping abundantly in fasts, they do more tough work than their strength can handle and this causes weakness to their body. As a result, they are no longer able to

observe fasts, and when they do fast then very often they break it, though there is no Shar’i permission of doing such a thing in the days of Ramadan that weakens the body and raises the strong possibility of breaking the fast.

A legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: In blessed Ramadan, to do a piece of work that causes weakness and raises the strong possibility of breaking the fast is not permissible, therefore, the baker should bake loaves until the noon, then the remaining day he should take rest. The same has been stated for masons and labourers and for others who labour hard. If there is a fear of being weak, one should reduce his work so that he may observe fast. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 5, vol. 1, pp. 998)

Dear Islamic brothers! Keep this in mind as well that if somebody is suffering from a disease which can become more serious by observing a fast, then the Islamic jurists have recommended guidelines in the light of Quran and Hadees, through which he is allowed to miss his fasts. Therefore, those who do not have sufficient strength to observe fasts due to a disease, should seek guidelines from a Sunni Islamic scholar (who has correct beliefs) or from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat according to his condition as to whether he is allowed to miss fasts or not as per Shari’ah. Do not miss fasts only because of your own speculation or thought.

Remember that Dawat-e-Islami has more than 103 departments; one of them is Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, up to now, 4 Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are working in Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi, besides that, Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat are also serving the grieved Ummah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Zamzam Nagar (Hyderabad Bab-ul-Islam Sindh), Sardarabad (Faisalabad), Markaz-ul-Awliya (Lahore), Rawalpindi and Gulzar-e-Taybah (Sargodha) in Shar’i guidance.

Apart from this, the Islamic brothers of ‘Dar-ul-Ifta Online’, an online department, working under ‘Majlis Ifta’, are carrying out this responsibility

with great care on a global scale by immediately responding to questions via phone & internet, from Muslims throughout the world.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Islamic brothers connected to this department answer hundreds of questions daily. Questions can also be asked through this email (darulifta@dawateIslami.net) from anywhere in the world. People from all over the world can contact this department on the following numbers for immediately seeking Shar’i guidance.

F 0300-0220113 – 0300-0220112

F 0300-0220115 – 0300-0220114

People may contact these numbers from 10 am to 4 pm. Friday is a holiday. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to observe all the fasts with good intentions.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Firstly, two blessed sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. When two Muslims shake hands while meeting and ask each other about their well-being, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends down a hundred mercies between them, of which ninety nine mercies are for the one who meets the other more warmly and asks about the well-being of his brother in a more beautiful manner. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 380, Raqm 7672)

2. When two friends meet, shake hands, and recite Salat upon the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, their past and future sins are forgiven before they separate. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman lil-Bayhaqi, vol. 6, pp. 471, Hadees 8944)

3. When two Muslims meet, it is Sunnah for them to shake hands using both hands after saying Salam .

4. Say Salam when leaving as well. You may also shake hands.

5. While shaking hands; if possible, recite the following Du’a as well after reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi:

یَغْفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَـنَا وَ لَ ـ کُمْ

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive me and you .

6. The Du’a that two Muslims make while shaking hands will اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ be answered and both will be forgiven before their hands are separated, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 4, pp. 286, Hadees 12454)

7. Shaking hands with each other removes enmity.

8. You can shake hands every time you meet.

9. It is not Sunnah f or both to just shake hands by using one hand each. The Sunnah is to use both hands for a handshake.

10. Some people just touch their fingers; this is not the Sunnah either.

1. It is Makruh to kiss one’s own hand after shaking hands.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 115)

2. The Islamic brothers who have habit of kissing their own palms after shaking hands should give up this habit.

3. If one feels lust while shaking hands with an Amrad (attractive young boy) then it is impermissible to shake hands with him. Even just looking at that boy is a sin if one feels lust by seeing him.

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 2, pp. 98)

4. The Sunnah of shaking hands is that both the palms should be empty and touch each other; there should not be anything in the hands stopping them from touching, such as a handkerchief etc.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 98)

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

www

Click here to read

