اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Madani Mashwarah

Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

The Blessed and Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whoever recites Salat one time upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes one Qiraat reward for him and Qiraat is equal to the mountain ‘Uhud’.

(Musannaf Abdur Razzaq, vol. 1, pp. 51, Hadees 53)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

­­­

Madani Mashwarah

Central advisory board and Nigran of Kabinaat and Majlis Overseas and ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat

‘Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah

Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi)

16 to 18 Muharram-ul-Haraam, 1437 AH (30 th October to 1 st November, 2015)

It is not permissible to mention any Muslim with a bad name, though; he is a sinner as it is mentioned in the Glorious Quran:

وَ لَا تَلۡمِزُوۡۤا اَنۡفُسَکُمۡ وَ لَا تَنَابَزُوۡا بِالۡاَلۡقَابِ ؕ بِئۡسَ الِاسۡمُ الۡفُسُوۡقُ بَعۡدَ الۡاِیۡمَانِ ۚ وَ مَنۡ لَّمۡ یَتُبۡ فَاُولٰٓئِکَ ہُمُ الظّٰلِمُوۡنَ ﴿۱۱﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And do not insult one another, nor assign evil nicknames; how base it is to be called a sinner after being a Muslim! And whoever does not repent - then it is they who are unjust.’

(Part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, verse 11)

It is stated in Tafseer (commentary) of Khaza’in-ul-Irfan: Do not give bad names to one another which are disapproving for them. Ruling: Sayyiduna Ibn-e-Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said: If any person has sought forgiveness from any wrongdoing, after that, it is prohibited to make him feel ashamed of his that evil act and it is also prohibited. Some blessed scholars have said: To call any Muslim dog, donkey or pig also falls in the same category. Some blessed scholars said: It refers to those titles which defame or disrespect Muslim and those are disapproving for him but words of praising which are true are not prohibited such as the title of Sayyiduna Abu Bakr رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is ‘Ateeq’, the title of Sayyiduna Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is ‘Farooq’, title of Sayyiduna Usman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is ‘Ghani’, the title of Sayyiduna Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is ‘Abu Turab’ and the title of Sayyiduna Khalid رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is ‘Saifullah’ and those titles which become one’s recognition and are not disapproving for him are also not prohibited for example اعمش، اعرج .

Keep yourself attached to the people of knowledge and ask them whatever you do not know as it is mentioned in the Glorious Quran:

فَسۡـَٔلُوۡۤا اَہۡلَ الذِّکۡرِ اِنۡ کُنۡتُمۡ لَا تَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O people, ask the people of knowledge if you do not know.’

(Part 17, Surah Al-Anbiya, verse 7)

It is mentioned in Tafseer Khaza’in-ul-Irfan: Because the person who is unaware has no alternative but to ask the people who know about it and it is the cure of the disease of ignorance that it is asked from the scholar and act upon his instruction.

We should safeguard (all) the trusts and those who do so have been given the glad tiding of Jannah.

وَ الَّذِیۡنَ ہُمۡ لِاَمٰنٰتِہِمۡ وَ عَہۡدِہِمۡ رٰعُوۡنَ ۙ﴿۸﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘And those who keep proper regard for their trusts and their pledges.’

(Part 18, Surah Al-Mu’minoon, verse 8)

It is mentioned in ‘Tafseer Khaza’in-ul-Irfan’: Whether those trusts belong to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or creature, similarly the pledge, be belong to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ or creature needs fulfilment.

The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘Guarantee me six things and I guarantee you Jannah.

1. Whenever you speak say the truth. ‘

2. Fulfil your promises when you make them.

3. When you are entrusted with something, carry that trust.

4. Safeguard your private parts.

5. Lower your gaze.

6. Prevent your hands from harming others.

(Musnad-e-Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 8, pp. 412, Hadees 22821)

Without Shar’i permission, using or spending someone’s trust is called breach of trust. (Umdah-tul - Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 328)

Trustworthiness is Wajib (obligatory) upon every Muslim and breaching of trust is a Haram act leading to Hell. (Al- Hadiqah - tul-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 652)

یٰۤاَیُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡا لَا تَخُوۡنُوا اللّٰہَ وَ الرَّسُوۡلَ وَ تَخُوۡنُوۡۤا اَمٰنٰتِکُمۡ وَ اَنۡتُمۡ تَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿۲۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘O People who Believe! Do not betray Allah and His Noble Prophet, nor purposely defraud your trusts.’

(Part 9, Surah Al - Anfaal, verse 27)

The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: There are three signs, if found in somebody, will be hypocrite though he offers Salah regularly and observes fast regularly: (1) When he speaks he lies. (2) When he promises he breaks his promise. (3) When he is entrusted he betrays the trust.’

(Muslim, pp. 50, Hadees 107)

Some people came to Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا and requested: We have embarked on the journey of Hajj and a man from our Qafilah has died at the place ‘ Maqaam -e- Sifah ’. When we dug a grave for him, we saw a big black snake inside the grave sitting, occupying the whole area of grave, we dug another grave, but we found the same snake inside. Now, we are here to ask you the solution. Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا said:

‘This is the punishment of breach of trust committed by him, bury him any of these two graves. I swear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If you dig any soil of this world, you will face same situation.’ After all, people buried him in the grave occupied by the snake. On return, they returned his luggage to his family and inquired his wife about his misdeed. She said: ‘He used to sell the food and would betray in it such as he would take out some food for his house and would adulterate something else in order to make up the deficiency.’

1. First cause is evil intention. The way good intention is a cure for character and reputation, similarly, evil intention destroys the deeds of the bondsman.

The cure of this epidemic is that one should keep his intention correct and make up his mind that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is All-Powerful to bestow me success in the world and Hereafter by virtue of my honesty and good intention. Therefore, what one can gain by committing breach of trust incurring the loss in the world and Hereafter?

2. Another reason behind committing breach of trust is the ‘habit of deceiving and cheating’. The cure of it is that one should keep the disadvantages of cheating in his mind that cheating is a very wicked and disgusting act and the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has also showed aversion towards cheater and deceiver. Cheating is not the trait of any Muslim. Cheating not only damages one’s reputation but cheater also loses the trust and confidence of others. Therefore, take care of the respect of Muslim every moment and make up his mind that certainly it is not the wisdom to bring oneself into perpetual danger for merely a transitory benefit.

The third reason of following the path of breaching of trust is the lack of trust in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Because one has such thinking that success lies in the way of breach of trust due to his weak conviction. The cure of it is that

one should have implicit faith in Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make up his mind that whatever act or way brings about the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, can never result in success. Therefore I would adopt the way of trustworthiness, giving up the way of breaching of trust. The fourth reason behind following the breaching of trust is fulfilling the worldly desires. The cure of it is that one should make accountability of his Nafs (self), seek the awareness of its dangers and tricks and make up his mind-set to give up the un-Islamic and worldly desires and also make effort for this cause, so that he could protect himself from the grave sin like breach of trust.

4. The fifth reason behind breaching of trust is the ‘Habit of causing loss to Muslims’; and this reason leads to other inner-self diseases and one of them is also a breach of trust. The cure is that one should develop the passion of serving Muslims and keeping the torments of bearing ill-feelings against Muslims in his mind. The sixth reason of breaching of trust is the wicked company; sometimes, human accepts each advantage and disadvantage attached to the environment he lives in which obviously make impact on his personal character and nature, especially by the dishonesty of ill-mannered he impresses so early. The cure of it is that he should have the company of virtuous and Allah-fearing people so that he could protect himself from other ethical and moral epidemics along with this deadly disease. (Baatini Bimariyon ki Ma’lumaat, pp. 175 to 179)

v I like to visit India so much, Ahmedabad is worth-seeing and there are plenty of shrines in this city.

v Pray for peace when circumstances are adverse, pray is also a weapon.

v Getting performance report of Madani activities is also one of the most important activities of Dawat -e- Islami .

v Check the performance of the departments, review the weak points and try to take steps to remove the weaknesses.

v All Nigrans should remain in contact constantly with their Zimmahdaran Islamic brothers who are serving directly under their guidance. This contact should be done in such a close way that parents have generally with their children.

v A subordinate can carry out activities under supervision but cannot perform under pressure.

v Sayyiduna Umar Farooq -e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had launched the ‘Justice System’, which contained the system of examining the governors.

v Islamic brothers while carrying out Madani activities become lazy, questioning and discussion bring improvement.

v There is a great difference between the general Madani activities and institutional activities. The performance of institutional department is always strong.

v Weaknesses may occur in any institution, if that institution admits its weaknesses and tries to remove them then it becomes strong.

v Things are done by visiting in person; it is difficult to bring progress in Madani activities by merely phone calls.

v The member of Shura and Nigran-e-Kabinaat should visit different stalls of animal hides, it encourages the Islamic brothers.

v In case of observing any organisational mistake, try your utmost to make other understand and try to enforce the organisational code of conduct. It is also our organisational responsibility.

v Along with getting performance report it is utmost important to comply in accordance with the organisational code of conduct, to act upon it and persuading others to do so.

Madani Mashwarah is essential for the progress of Madani activities. Ensure to act upon the following Madani pearls:

v Do not be late for Mashwarah, if you get late due to any valid reason then explain it seeking an apology.

v In Madani Mashwarah, do not mention your own act and efforts for persuading others rather relate the parables of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, blessed companions, Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and blessed saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

v Do not tease and taunt others in Madani Mashwarah.

v Make constructive conversation, refraining yourself from criticism.

v Do not make anybody understand directly in Madani Mashwarah rather make understand collectively without mentioning name.

v Try to avoid irrelevant conversation.

v Madani Mashwarah should be concluded at its fix time.

v When talking to the people about the personality of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, discuss only those areas which are according to their wisdom.

v Attend Madani Mashwarah and Bayan on time according to the schedule you had set.

v How great is an organisational responsible Islamic brother, who concludes his Bayan and Du’a in the weekly congregation according to the time fixed by Madani Markaz. The weekly congregation should be finished within two hours after Maghrib Salah. From Zayli level to central Majlis Shura, all responsible Islamic brothers should act upon it and persuade others to do so.

v We all are bound to act upon according to the prescribed method of Dawat-e-Islami.

v Whatever post and position one occupies worldly or religious, he should try to refrain from the destruction of post, arrogance, lust for world etc.

v Study is necessary to prevent ourselves from the destruction of knowledge. Read Ihya-ul-‘Uloom vol. 01, from page 201 to 282.

v The severity and bitterness of being answerable is acute than the pleasure of power.

v The designation of Nigran-e-Kabinaat is the most sensitive post. All departments work under Kabinaat.

v ‘Muta’di’ (the act that brings about others’ benefit) is greater than the act ‘Laazim’ (the act that is good to one’s own self). (Nayki ki Dawat, pp. 31)

v Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami should be carried out in every institution.

v Have deep yearning of devotion to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also a reward-able act.

v Keep such Islamic brother with you who informs you when you commit any mistake and should be such a trustworthy who does not disclose it to others.

v No reformation can be attained unless one stops committing mistake.

v It is a job of Nigran and Zimmahdaran to conceal others’ faults, not disclosing them.

v New Madani work should be assigned to new emerging Islamic bother. If it is assigned to an already busy Islamic brother then sometimes that work lacks perfection.

v Correct word is پوچھ گ َ چھ, it is not پوچھ گُچھ . (There is diacritic mark on گاف)

v Capable Islamic brothers should be promoted, Madani Tarbiyat (training) should be imparted to them, they should also be encouraged in the presence of other Islamic brothers and they should be assigned responsibilities.

v It is necessary to keep in view the aims and objectives of Shari’ah.

v Responsible Islamic brothers of different departments should strengthen their department by cooperation and coordination with each other. One department should help the other department.

The member of Shura, Nigran-e-Kabinaat and the responsible Islamic brothers of Pakistan level should make the schedule of attending weekly Madani Muzakarah of different cities. Nigran e Kabinah, Nigran e Division, city Mushawarat should prepare for the city where Rukn-e-Shura is supposed to visit and after Madani Muzakarah, Islamic brothers should be persuaded to travel with Madani Qafilah. In this Madani Muzakarah congregation, Maktaba-tul-Madinah and Ta’wizaat-e-

v Attariyyah stalls should also be put up. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ through this city, Madani activities in many other cities will also be strengthened.

v On Saturday, offer your Isha prayer where you have to attend Madani Muzakarah.

v Like 11 Madani Muzakarahs held in Muharram-ul-Haram, more or less 13 in Rabi’-ul-Awwal and 11 Madani Muzakarah in the month of Rabi’-ul-Aakhir will be held اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Nigran-e-Pakistan Administrative Kabinah should make the schedule of Shura members and Nigran e Kabinaat, where would they attend the Madani Muzakarah of Giyarhween Sharif and Bharween Sharif, and email the concerned responsible Islamic brothers and Nigran-e-Shura. Target: 15 Safar-ul-Muzaffar 1437.

v When Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ meets Islamic brothers, the responsible Islamic brothers should make individual efforts upon them. The responsible Islamic brother should not meet rather let other Islamic brothers meet and if they want to meet then they should meet along with those Islamic brother whom they have brought.

Madani Date

Gregorian calendar

Day

Shuraka-e-Kabinah

29 Safar, 1, 2 Rabi’-ul-Awwal, 1437

12, 13, 14 December 2015

Saturday, Sunday, Monday

Seerani KABINAT

3, 4, 5 Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1437

15, 16, 17 December 2015

Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

Jilaani (KPK) and Meeladi (Gilgit-Baltistan)

6, 7, 8 Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1437

18, 19, 20 December 2015

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Barakati (Baluchistan)

9, 10, 11 Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1437

21, 22, 23 December 2015

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

Muhammadi (Kashmir)

28, 29 Rabi’-ul-Awwal,

1st Rabi’-ul-Aakhir 1437

09, 10, 11 January 2016

Saturday, Sunday, Monday

Hajweri

2, 3, 4 Rabi-ul-Aakhir 1437

12, 13, 14 January 2016

Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

Siddiqui

5, 6, 7 Rabi’-ul-Aakhir 1437

15, 16, 17 January 2016

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Chishti

8, 9, 10 Rabi’-ul-Aakhir 1437

18, 19, 20 January 2016

Tuesday, Wednesday, Monday

Ghazali

12, 13, 14 Rabi’-ul-Aakhir 1437

22, 23, 24 January 2016

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Suhurwardi

19, 20, 21 Rabi’-ul-Aakhir 1437

29, 30, 31 January 2016

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Maherwi

26, 27, 28 Rabi-ul-Aakhir 1437

5, 6, 7 February 2016

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Junaydi

3, 4, 5 Jumadal-Aula 1437

12, 13, 14 February 2016

Friday, Saturday, Sunday

Ashaabi

v If you want to flourish the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami then you will have to increase the Madani donations.

Sayyiduna Habeeb Bin Ubayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: I saw Sayyiduna Miqdaam Bin Ma’di Karb رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ in this condition in the Bazar that his maid was selling milk and he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was sitting there taking money (i.e., Dinar) for milk from the people. To which somebody asked him about it, he said: I have listened the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: Dirhams and dinars will become so important that in the last era people’s Deen and world will depend on it.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 20, pp. 279, Hadees. 660)

v Everyone is not capable of increasing the Madani donations.

v There is a quotation: لِکُلِّ فَنٍّ رِجَالٌ i.e., every skill has its own expert; therefore, search such Islamic brothers who have the capability to increase the Madani donations. A committee under Rukn-e-Shura Haji Abdul Habeeb Attari to be formed consisting of 26 such Islamic brothers and Haji Abdul Habeeb Attari would train them. The Madani Mashwarah of this Majlis will be held on 31 st December 2015 after the weekly congregation and on the next day (Friday), there will be a congregation of personalities in Sardar Abad (Faisalabad) اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

v Safety of Madani donations is necessary and the system of safeguarding should so strong that no one could commit breach of trust.

v It is easier to accuse somebody of breach of trust but difficult to prove it.

Nigran-e-Kabinaat should hold Madani Mashwarah of different departments. Along with other Madani pearls, income and expenses should also be discussed and the mind-set of self-sufficiency should be made, in this way, each department should be made self-sufficient.

v Madani Qafilah is the soul and essence of our movement.

v The blessed act of area visit for calling people towards righteousness is a machine to prepare Madani Qafilahs, all Islamic brothers should carry it out at least once in a week. All responsible Islamic brothers should be habitual to travel with Madani Qafilah in a month and at least once in a week they should attend area visit for calling people towards righteousness.

v All Madani Qafilahs of Kabinah should travel as per schedule to those Masjids / cities of Kabinah where famous Urs take place and set the Qafilah date according to the schedule of Urs.

v Those Imam Islamic brothers of Dawat-e-Islami who are unable to travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah must spend three days of Madani Qafilah in their Masjid and persuade their Muqtadis (followers) to join Madani Qafilah and spend 3 days according to the schedule. (Majlis A’immah, Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madrasa-tul-Madinah and Islamic brothers related to other departments who are doing Imamat [leading prayers] all are included in this category)

v The members of Shura and the Nigran-e-Kabinaat should hold Madani Mashwarah of the teachers and students of Jami’a-tul-Madinah and persuade them to carry out Madani activities.

v All Jami’a-tul-Madinah under Kabinaat should be given time.

v There will be many Jami’a-tul-Madinahs in a big city; their teachers and students should be gathered at one place. (Consultation with the responsible Islamic brothers of Jami’a-tul-Madinah is necessary for this)

v The members of Shura should make a schedule to visit Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madrasa-tul-Madinah and other Sunni Madaris as well.

v Those new Islamic brothers who show distinctive performance should be invited and encouraged while giving them importance.

v Visit the sick Islamic brothers, comfort and extend condolences to them.

v Under Majlis-e-Rabitah, one responsible Islamic brother should be appointed for each Police Station who will pay visits to Police Station for calling people towards righteousness. Target: 126 days.

v Majlis Social Media has been formed whose Nigran is Rukn-e-Shura Haji Abdul Habeeb Attari.

v In Central Majlis Shura, Rukn-e-Shura Sayyid Muhammad Luqman Bapu has been given the responsibility of Majlis-e-Ta’miraat.

v The responsibility of ‘Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub’ has been given to the Rukn-e-Shura Muhammad Baghdad Raza Attari.

v The responsibility of constructing Masajid in the posh areas has been given to Haji Ya’foor Raza Attari and the same responsibility of constructing Masajid in the villages has been given to the Rukn-e-Shura Muhammad Farooq Jilaani Attari.

v Whatever booklet or book is published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, do buy it.

v Without reading and studying, life is desolated, do read which will change your way of contemplation and pondering and whoever reads can deliver Bayan easily.

v When preparing Bayan, think on this aspect too that who are the listeners? Then make preparation accordingly. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ your Bayan will be effective and revolutionary.

v The parables of the lives of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی play an important role in reforming people.

v Booklet ‘Faizan-e-Baba Fareed’ contains best material.

v All the members of Shura and the Nigrans of Kabinaat should bring performance report of their reading-habit from the month of Muharram 1437 to the next Madani Mashwarah. It may also consist of the performance of the recitation of Glorious Quran.

v All the responsible Islamic brothers should pay attention to the Sunnat-e-Qabliyyah, Nawafil-e-Badiyyah, Takbeer-e-Tahreemah and daily Fikr-e-Madinah along with other Faraaid, Wajibat and Sunnat-e-Muakkadah and make themselves habitual of these acts.

v Wear badge (prescribed by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat), this is also a source of calling towards righteousness.

v Those monthly schedules of responsible Islamic brothers which lack a 3-day Madani Qafilah are imperfect.

v It is necessary for us to safeguard the waqf-Amlaak and Maliyaat etc., of our city and division.

v Prepare the content containing questions and answers about the Waqf Amlaak. All responsible Islamic brothers should read it and should give a test so that they remember the necessary laws and rulings of Waqf. (Muhammad Aqeel Attari will carry out this Madani activity. Target: 63 Days)

Strengthen the system; for this, it is mandatory to find capable Islamic brothers. Think before assigning any responsibility to anybody that whether he abides by Shari’ah or not? Is he suitable for it? Will he fulfil the prerequisites of this position? Does he have a mind-set to seek Shar’i guidance from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat according to the organisational way of Madani activities? Will he fulfil the Shar’i

v requisites in spending Madani donations? Is he careful about Deen? etc.

v Our responsible Islamic brothers should be capable of understanding the Shar’i laws and rulings along with organisational matters.

v Every responsible Islamic brother should be sensitive in Shar’i matters and capable of leading prayers.

v Make such a Madani training system that your subordinates are trustworthy and submissive to Shari’ah and organisation.

v In order to bring substitute, train capable Islamic brother, this is not an easy job, it requires sufficient time.

v Islamic brothers from Kabinaat should visit their divisions and hold Madani Mashwarah there with concerned Islamic brothers in Safar-ul-Muzaffar 1437 and persuade them to strengthen the 12 Madani activities. There should be such capable preachers who could hold Madani Mashwarah at Division level. Choose adequate Islamic brothers in a Kabinaat who could hold Madani Mashwarahs of 5 Divisions. Complete these Mashwarah from 10th Safar-ul-Muzaffar to 20 Safar-ul-Muzaffar 1437 A.H. Nigran-e-Pak Kabinah Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari will train those Islamic brothers who would hold Madani Mashwarahs via Satellite on Sunday 22 November from 8.p.m to 11.00 p.m. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

The son of Attar, Maulana Al Hajj Abu Usayd, Ubayd Raza Attari Madani will visit different cities (of Pakistan) along with Arakeen-e-Shura (members of Shura), Haji Muhammad Ammad Attari Madani and Haji Baghdad Raza Attari, deliver Bayan in the congregations of Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub and meet people. In this Madani Qafilah, Ameer-e-Qafilah will be Rukn-e-Shura Haji Muhammad Ammad Attari Madani. Nigran-e- Kabinah and Nigran-e-Kabinaat will also participate in these congregations . Invite the Islamic brothers of ‘Majlis Izdiyad-e-Hub’ and after the Bayan

v if there is no Shar’i and organisational obstacles, assign them any organisational responsibility.

v The 12-day Madani course of Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Amjadi Kabinaat is continued and approximately 900 students are taking part in this course.

Safar-ul-Muzaffar: Haji Muhammad Zahid Attari (Nigran Junaydi Kabinaat).

Rabi’-ul-Awwal: Haji Muhammad Mansur Attari, Haji Muhammad Aslam Attari, Haji Muhammad Anwar Attari, Haji Muhammad Imtiaz Attari (Member of Majlis overseas) Haji Muhammad Ameen Attari, Haji Muhammad Riyaz Attari (Member of Majlis overseas).

Rabi’-ul-Aakhir: Haji Muhammad Waqar Al-Madinah Attari, Qaari Muhammad Khalid Attari, Haji Ghulam Ilyas Attari, Haji Barkat Ali Attari, Abdul Wahab Attari, Haji Muhammad Asad Attari Madani, Haji Muhammad Arif Bapu (Rukn-e-Majlis overseas).

Jammad-ul-Aula: The Prince (son) of Attar Haji Ubayd Raza Attari, Haji Muhammad Imran Attari (Nigran-e-Shura), Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari (Nigran-e-Pak Kabinah), Haji Muhammad Farooq Jilaani Attari, Haji Muhammad Rafique Attari, Haji Muhammad Altaaf Attari (Rukn-e-Majlis overseas).

Jammad-ul-Aakhir: Qaari Muhammad Saleem Attari.

Shawwal-ul-Mukarram: Haji Muhammad Bilal Attari, Haji Muhammad Mas’ood Attari (Rukn-e-Majlis overseas)

v During 12 month duration, 12-day Madani course should be conducted 3 times at Kabinaat level.

v All responsible Islamic brothers should prepare their Nigran and the members of Kabinah, Nigran and the members of Division Mushawarat for this course, similarly, try to prepare Pakistan level Shuba Zimmahdaran and the members of Majlis for this course as this is a character-building course.

v Just before the end of 12-day Madani course, any responsibility of Majlis Madani In’amaat should be assigned to those who are doing this Madani course. (Who do not have any other responsibility previously)

v During the weekly congregation, the shop/ stall of Maktaba-tul-Madinah should not be opened.

v Hold a meeting with other stall owners and persuade them to keep their business closed during the Bayan. Strictness is not allowed here.

v The stalls of Maktaba-tul-Madinah to be increased as per need in the weekly congregations in the big cities.

17 Muharram 1437 H

Madani Muzakarah after Isha

31 st Oct 2015

v The high position holder should forgive the trivial matters, issues and mistakes of their subordinates; it is the need of that high position.

v One should remain content what Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed and heart will be satisfied اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and there will be no tension.

v Accelerate the movement ‘Save virtues’ and try to avoid every act which causes to lose virtues.

v A blessing is a trial for somebody.

v Hidden enmity in the heart is malice.

v Whoever tells jokes repeatedly, he loses his honour especially telling more jokes with children brings shamefulness.

v Some people toss their children up with affection and pull their organs, it is not a good thing, people should avoid it because it may cause them to fall and damage their organs.

v When anybody asks for suggestion, only give him a good suggestion.

v Many years prior to the founding of Dawat-e-Islami, I used to call people towards righteousness.

v It is also impermissible for the one to hurt his children’s feelings.

v Use your tongue carefully; carelessness may cause you to speak disbelief and blasphemous words. For the protection of Iman, go through the book ‘Kufriyah Kalimaat kay baray mayn Suwal Jawab’, it is an important book containing obligatory knowledge. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by reading it you will strengthen your beliefs. No such an easy and informative book in Urdu language has ever been published on this topic until now.

v Keep yourself attached to the Ahl-e-Sunnat scholars.

v The Mufti of Dawat-e-Islami was a matchless and distinguished person.

v It is advised to people connected to the Dawat-e-Islami that they should build and keep cordial relations with the scholars and show reverence towards them.

v The movement Dawat-e-Islami belongs to all the Sunni people.

v The acceptance of every act depends on sincerity.

Off Air Madani Muzakarah (Participants: Students and teachers of Sunni Madaris)

v Teacher should ponder whether he has the capability of teaching? In case he is eligible then he should teach. Thorough preparation should be done of those lessons which you are supposed to teach. During teaching, avoid such acts which create hurdles in teaching.

v For becoming a successful teacher, treat all students with equality and justice; moreover, it is necessary to show continuous affection towards students. Weak students should not be humiliated.

v Students should not be dismissed from Madrasa as far as possible rather a great effort should be carried out keeping them from leaving Madrasa.

v When teaching, have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in heart and teach with the intention of upholding the truth.

v Less intelligent students need more affection so that they feel no inferiority complex.

v Upon the ethical and educational weakness, students should be punished according to the prescribed method provided by Madani Markaz.

v If students are taught with strategy, it will produce better result.

v People are in acute need of education.

v Teaching should not be done for monetary benefits, rather the aim of teaching should be to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and propagation of Deen e Islam.

v Keep persuading students to perform Salah, observe fast, carry out other virtuous deeds and to adopt courteous manner.

v Make it obligatory upon students to study Ihya-ul-‘Uloom 1 st volume. It contains a chapter of calamities of knowledge too.

v Students of Ilm-e-Deen should make intention that I will rectify my worship by removing illiteracy and ignorance through the knowledge. After seeking knowledge I will serve Islam and spread true knowledge.

v Show reverence towards teachers more than your parents, talk humbly, do not commit evil suspicion for them, and if teacher show strictness still do not ruin your Hereafter by committing backbiting. Respect them in their absence as you do it in their presence and do not sit on their seats.

v The more you respect your teachers, the more blessings of knowledge you will get.

v Do ask if you do not understand anything, if teacher has scolded you; still do not stop asking.

v I had a great yearning to learn Islamic rulings and laws and I was thirsty of knowledge in my childhood. Once a Mufti scolded me, I do not know why he did so, I, humbly said: “Respected Allamah Sahib! I have heard from blessed scholars

فَسۡـَٔلُوۡۤا اَہۡلَ الذِّکۡرِ اِنۡ کُنۡتُمۡ لَا تَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O the people! Ask the people of knowledge if you do not know. (Surah Al-Anbiya, verse 7)

Listening to this, he immediately became gentle and said: ‘Ok ask?’

v Students should repeat what they learn daily and also help the less intelligent students in memorising lesson.

v A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a shining sun.

v May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect the Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah and Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat.

v Do not waste your time and avoid evil glance for strengthening your memory; furthermore, do not eat sour and phlegm causing items.

v After each Salah, recite یَاعَالِمُ، یَاعَلِیۡمُ، یَا حَافِظُ، یَا حَف ِ یۡظُ، یَا نَاصِرُ، یَا نَصِیۡرُ 7, 9 or 11, 11 times, it will strengthen your memory اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

18 Muharram 1437

02 November 2015

v First of all the Dars of Faizan e Sunnat to be started to start Madani activities in those countries whose Islamic brothers’ contacts are available to us.

v Regarding Hajveri and Bukhari countries, those responsible Islamic brothers who have contacts of the influential people or other well-wishers, should give them to the concerned responsible Islamic brothers.

v Those countries where Shafi’i, Hanbali and Maliki are in majority instead of Hanafi, the preachers in those countries should teach Azkaar of Salah instead of ‘Laws of Salah’ in Tarbiyyati (Training) Halqahs.

v Just for sending information about an activity, send audio or text messages, if that activity is supposed to be made a record, such as resolving any issue, consultation of any Madani activity then instead of SMS, send email on this email address: overseasmaktab@gmail.com

v In view of Madani activities in overseas اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the monthly performance report form of 12 Madani Activities of Zayli Halqahs to Kabinah/ country have been prepared with the consultation of the member of Shura and other responsible Islamic brothers, through which obtaining monthly performance has been made extremely easy and the forms are easily understandable.

v New monthly performance forms and information forms have been prepared in Urdu and English both, and if other languages such as Hindi, Arabic etc., are required to be included then English can be replaced and that form can be utilized in other countries .

v For obtaining organizational information, new forms according to area level and country level have been prepared, according to that the information of Zayli Halqah to Kabinah, Ma’ulimeen, Mudariseen, Masajid, surroundings and preachers, teachers and villages etc., will be taken 2 times in each 12 months i.e. in Rabi’-ul-Aakhir and Shawal-ul-Mukarram.

v The set-up (appointment of Zimmahdaran) of Zayli Halqah to country level have also been emailed to the respective countries. Now from Rabi’-ul-Awwal onwards, new appointments will be made according to this set-up اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

v Through Majlis Overseas, Persian and Balochi speaking preachers for Hajveri countries to be made to travel from Pakistan and India.

v The responsible Islamic brothers of Majlis Overseas (travel) should collect the complete data of the preachers and their needs via Email and according to that information make arrangement for their travel accordingly.

v In the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal, Arabic influential personalities and Arabic Islamic brothers to be made to travel to Babul Madinah Karachi in the Madani Qafilah.

v For Madani Qafilah of these influential personalities, the target of 26 Arabic Islamic brothers especially from Sudan, Jordan, and Oman has been set.

v Abdullah Attari Madani should form a Majlis for their training which will prepare a schedule for their training.

v Arabic translator will be arranged During Madani Muzakarah and other Halqahs, for Arabic Islamic brothers and their schedule should also be made.

v Those preachers who are in 12-month Madani Qafilah in Pakistan and are strong organizationally to be taught Arabic language and should be made to travel in Arab counties.

v The Majlis overseas should seek information from Majlis Madani Channel about the dubbing VCDs into different languages and make planning to propagate it in different countries.

v Majlis Madani Channel should plan to broadcast an Arabic program and Madani news updates once in a week for their Arabic viewers.

v Instead of collecting donation round the year, pay the full attention towards the Madani Donations in the month of Rajab, Sha’ban and Ramadan and make progress so that other Madani activities can be focussed in the rest of the months.

v In 12 months, three occasions especially (Telethon, Ramadan, animal hides) are for collecting donations.

v It has frequently been observed that Islamic brothers from neighbouring countries arrive in Pakistan and sacrifice animal in Pakistan; therefore, the members of Majlis overseas should persuade the Islamic brothers living in faraway countries to take part in collective sacrifice.

v Like Pakistan, if the Islamic brothers from all over the world launch campaign of Madani donation from Rajab-ul-Murajjab, a significant increase can be made in the Madani donations.

v Rukn-e-Shura Haji Muhammad Ibrahim Bapu Attari will take the test of those Islamic brothers who collect Madani donation after reading the book ‘ Questions and Answers about Donations ’.

v Rukn-e-Shura should strengthen the Madani activity of Madani In’amaat and should introduce such application system which draws the attention of all towards Madani In’amaat.

v All the responsible Islamic brothers should practice Fikr e Madinah and persuade others to do so.

v اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Under the Majlis-e-Tarajim, plenty of books and booklets have been translated in various languages. The detail of the stock of translated books and booklets to be supplied to the responsible Islamic brothers of other countries.

v In order to improve the performance of Majlis-e-Tarajim, feedbacks and opinions to be sought from the readers around the world who study the literature of Dawat-e-Islami. Such Islamic brothers who are connected to the Internet and are engaged in the Madani activities to be contacted and a Majlis to be formed that not only spreads the booklets and books online at the Dawat-e-Islami website but also seeks the feedbacks from the general readers and send them to Majlis-e-Tarajim.

v For adding diacritic marks in Arabic language for Arab countries, Rukn-e-Majlis Overseas Malik Muhammad Atif Bapu will consult with the Nigran Majlis-e-Tarajim, Rukn-e-Shura Haji Barkat Ali Attari.

v Rukn-e-Shura Haji Muhammad Azhar Attari should make planning to arrange translator for translating books and booklets into Spanish language.

v All responsible Islamic brothers of all countries should get their available waqf amlaak (endowed properties) in their respective countries, checked from Majlis waqf Amlaak so that if there is any Shar’i or organizational hitch, it could be solved immediately.

v Majlis Dar-ul-Madinah overseas should introduce more easy and smooth ways for launching more new Dar-ul-Madinahs abroad, besides fulfilling the other needs and requirements, the expenses Dar-ul-Madinah of 3 years to be collected in advance.

v All the members of Majlis overseas should celebrate Rabi’-ul-Awwal Sharif abroad this time and also prepare a Madani Qafilah with them.

v Those preachers who travel abroad for 6 months or 12 months should hire a professional teacher there for learning native language for a little period during the schedule of their travelling, it will help them to increase Madani activities amongst the natives اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

v In order to strengthen the system of paying salaries in time, Majlis-e-Ijarah will pay salaries itself to the concerned employees belonging to overseas counties for three months.

Majlis-e-Ijarah will examine the overseas countries. If any employee has been hired without the knowledge of Majlis-e-Ijarah then Nigran Majlis-e-Ijarah with the consultation of responsible Islamic brother should

v serve notice to the concerned Nigran Kabinah and the employee to be hired under the prescribed system.

v English speaking Islamic brother to be increased in Ijarah Majlis.

v Majlis Hajj and Umrah (Overseas) persuade the pilgrim Islamic brothers to travel in the first flights, in this way; they will have sufficient time to train pilgrims.

v Nigran e Kabinah/ Kabinaat are not allowed to contact any responsible Islamic sister directly via message or mail. When it is needed to contact, it can be managed through the mother of his children (wife) or Mahrimaat, the male Mahram of responsible Islamic sisters or her husband and information can be gathered from them.

v The members of Shura are allowed to deliver Bayan to the gathering of Islamic sisters, but before it they will seek permission from Rukn-e-Shura and Nigran Majlis Madani activities for Islamic sisters.

v All responsible Islamic sisters should read book ‘ Questions and Answers about Islamic Veil ’ at least once in a 12 month.

v When the members of Majlis Overseas (Islamic sisters) deliver Bayan to the Islamic sisters living abroad and English speaking participants are also the part of gathering then there should be a translator Islamic sister.

‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat

19 Muharram-ul-Haraam 1437 AH; November 3, 2015

v One of the activities of the ‘Majlis for the Madani activities of responsible Islamic sisters’ (Islamic brothers) is to make individual efforts on the Maharim of Islamic sisters. For acting upon this Madani pearl, Madani Halqah or Tarbiyyati Ijtima at Halqah level, area level, Division or Kabinah level have been planned. (As congregation of guardians is held by Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madrasa-tul-Madinah, Dar-ul-Madinah). Which should consist of Sunnah inspiring speech, supplication to be memorized, persuading the Maharim to travel in Madani Qafilah and act upon Madani In’amaat. Whenever there is a schedule of Madani Halqahs and Tarbiyyati Ijtima, Islamic sisters should propagate it fully amongst their Maharim.

v The short courses which are conducted for Islamic sisters should be examined and flaws and faults to be removed from them, these courses are also conducted in foreign countries too which are taught by different Islamic sisters in different ways. It has been decided that Majlis Courses should organise short courses according to the Madani pearls given by Madrasa-tul-Madinah online for females. Cabin should be set up at an appropriate place. For teaching courses, well-trained, organizationally strong employed Islamic sisters to be selected.

v The course which is supposed to be conducted abroad should be consulted with the responsible Islamic sisters by the Mumalik (countries) responsible Islamic sister and planning and amendment should be carried out according to the environment of that place.

v The system of training Islamic sister who conducts short course should be strengthened. Everyone is not capable of doing this.

v There should be a strict system of scrutiny of those Bayanaat which are being delivered by Islamic sisters.

v Those Islamic sisters who are being specified for scrutiny should be trained because scrutiny is not any ordinary task that can be carried out by everybody.

v It is forbidden to deliver Bayan by a non-scholar; therefore, Islamic sisters should deliver Bayan exactly as it is written.

v A brief performance report of last year of every country should be prepared such as how many appointments were required and how many made? How many Dars are being delivered? What is current status? Etc. This performance report will be emailed to Rukn-e-Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari. (Target:7 days)

v No repeated contacts should be made for overseas performance. Obtain performance of 8 Madani activities with soft tone. Every performance is not top urgent.

v Try your best to increase the Madani training centres for Islamic sisters in Pakistan and overseas.

v For finding good location for Madani training centres, Islamic sisters should also play their roles.

v Send email to the member of Shura Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid Attari Madani about what will be the planning of all Kabinah to visit Madani Tarbiyat Gah for populating Madani Tarbiyat Gah and what would be the Madani pearls of fixing the date of courses?

v It is prescribed schedule for Islamic brothers that they will travel three days in a month with Madani Qafilah, similarly, Islamic sisters spend three days in the Madani training centres and invite new Islamic sisters and persuade them to join them.

v The target to establish Madani centers for the Islamic Sisters is 313.

v The ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat is responsible of millions of Islamic sisters.

v By our struggle, how many Islamic sisters associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami? How many Islamic sisters observed Shar’i veiling? How many Islamic sisters are providing Madani training to children according to Sunnah? To ponder over all these things and for materialising it is the responsibility of ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat.

v No strictness to be applied to enforce Madani Pearls upon the Islamic sisters living in foreign countries, every Madani pearl cannot be applied everywhere.

v When the responsible Islamic sisters from overseas relate the problems they face in applying the Madani pearls they should be listened carefully and these points should be noted down and to be submitted in the Madani Mashwarah of ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat, where all will ponder on them, if there is a need to bring change in Madani pearls then with the permission of central Majlis Shura changes can be made.

v Do not dishearten the subordinate Islamic sisters.

v Islamic sisters should make full preparation for 12-day Madani course with great zeal and fervour. Every responsible Islamic sister should try to take part in 12 –day Madani course. It is a character building course and instructors and trainers of this course, needs to be owning good character. Only that Islamic sister present herself for this course as a trainer who possesses following qualities:

Practicing of Madani In’amaat; observing daily Fikr-e-Madinah and submit Madani In’amaat card on the first day of each Madani month; she should be famous amongst the Islamic sisters as less talkative; she should be serious, well-mannered, soft-hearted, carrying out Madani activities regularly, regular reader of the books and booklets of

v Maktaba-tul-Madinah, regular listener of the weekly Madani Muzakarah and the one who protects her gaze. Islamic sisters of these qualities are always distinctive and by the grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the light of worship emits from their faces.

Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighaat

v In Pakistan, test of the teachers of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighaat to be conducted and 26-day Madani Qai’dah course to be started as soon as possible.

v 26-day Madani Qai’dah course will be conducted in each Kabinah.

v Through this course, teachers will be trained.

v The target is within 19 days to start 26-day Madani Qai’dah course.

v After completing the course, Islamic sisters will take test of Islamic sisters in person.

Whenever Nigran-e-Shura and the members of Shura are supposed to visit foreign countries for Tarbiyyati Bayanaat then the members of ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat to be informed in advance through the member of Shura ‘Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari Madani’ so that they could also attend and be aware of Madani pearls.

v For Majlis Maliyaat, a committee of 15 Islamic sisters to be formed at Pakistan level.

v Their appointments will be made at Kabinaat and country level. Only that Islamic sister is made the member who is skilful in calculation and has good insight in ‘Chanday kay baray mayn Suwal jawab.’

v The member of Shura Abu Kumayl (Haji Fuzayl Raza Attari) will respond about the Madani activities of Madani booklets within a week اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

v The job of public dealing cannot be handed over to everybody; this responsibility should be assigned only to those who have great stamina, fortitude and patience.

v Good human is that person who pays attention to his mistakes and weaknesses and tries to reform himself.

v The member of Shura Abu Majid Haji Muhammad Shahid Attari Madani will consult with the member of Shura (Haji Abdul Habeeb Attari) about the teaching Madrasa-tul-Balighaat to the Islamic sisters living abroad via Internet. (Target: 7 Days)

The Madani Mashwarah of Pakistan Majlis Mushawarat (Islamic sisters) will be in Madina-tul-Awliya Multan on Sunday 29 th Nov 2015. The responsible Islamic sisters of ‘Aalami Majlis Mushawarat will call this Madani Mashwarah اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For a long time, in the ‘Aalami Madani Markaz Faizan-e-Madinah, the meetings (Madani Mashwarahs) of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura are held till many days from time to time. Whatever things are approved to be noted down with mutual consultation briefly and in the time of need, it is sent to the responsible Islamic brothers. Take full advantages of these Madani pearls and apply them in your countries, divisions, cities and departments within seven days and also send your precious suggestion. Kindly! Send these Madani pearls to the concerned responsible Islamic brothers and confirm it and then let your Nigran know about it.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ privilege all of us the slavery of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ and to have steadfastness with consistency, safety and sincerity with Dawat-e-Islami.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

The schedule of next Madani Mashwarah of Markazi Majlis-e-Shura

Date: 28 Safar-ul-Muzaffar, 1437 AH; December 11, 2015

­­­

