اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Farooq-e-A’zam’s Devotional Love

Towards the Beloved Prophet صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become obligatory for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees31)

گر لَبِ پاک سے اِقرارِ شَفاعت ہو جائے یُوں نہ بے چین رکھے جوشِشِ عصیاں ہم کو

Explanation of couplet: O the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, if it is acknowledged by you that yes, you will intercede me; irritation of my sins would not make me restless.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! All the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم possess the highest ranks and distinctive qualities (after the blessed Prophets), they are the guiding stars and the closest to the Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, some blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are higher in rank and more excellent than others. The four Rightly Guided Caliphs are superior to all other companions رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq -e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ is the second caliph of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and of Islam and he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced martyrdom on the 1 st Muharram- ul - Haraam . Let’s be privileged to listen to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq’s brightest feature of ‘ Ishq -e- Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)’. Here are some verses in praise of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq -e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ:

خدا کے فضل سے میں ہوں گدا فاروقِ اعظم کا خدا اُن کا محمد مصطفی فاروقِ اعظم کا

کرم الله کا ہر دم نبی کی مجھ پہ رحمت ہے مجھے ہے دو جہاں میں آسرا فاروقِ اعظم کا

بھٹک سکتا نہیں ہر گز کبھی وہ سیدھے رستے سے کرم جس بخت وَر پر ہو گیا فاروقِ اعظم کا

اِلٰہی! ایک مُدّت سے مِری آنکھیں پیاسی ہیں دِکھا دے سبز گنبد واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

شہادت اے خدا عطار کو دیدے مدینے میں کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq -e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was once very sad and grieved, went to him and asked the servant to seek permission for my entry, the servant went in, asked the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and then returned saying, ‘I have spoken to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and mentioned you but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ I then returned and sat with a group of people sitting near the pulpit. But I could not bear this situation and once again I said to the servant, ‘Will you seek permission for ‘Umar?’ He went in and returned, saying, ‘I mentioned you to him but he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observed silence.’ When I returned again the servant called me, saying, ‘The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has given you permission.’

I then entered and saw the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lying on a bed made of stalks of date palm leaves and there was no bedding between it and him. The stalks left marks on his side and he was leaning on a leather pillow stuffed with date-palm fibres. I greeted him and while still standing I said to please him, ‘ اَسۡتَاۡنِسُ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه ’ I want to talk to you and cheer you up, O Allah’s Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) ? We, the people of Quraysh used to have power over our women, but when we arrived in Madinah we found that the men (here) were overpowered by their women.’ The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled and then I said, I approached Hafsah and said to her, ‘Do not be tempted to imitate your companion (Sayyidatuna ‘ Aaishah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), for she is more charming than you and more beloved to the Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ The Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled for a second time. (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab -un- Nikah, vol. 3, pp. 460, Hadees 5191)

Dear Islamic brothers! Ponder over this parable. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq -e- A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ could not tolerate the Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم falling into any kind of grief or sadness, therefore, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ intended to cheer him up and finally he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ succeeded in his blessed purpose and the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم smiled at his efforts. Think seriously! On the one hand we observe the state of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم who become sad when they find the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grieved

and would try to please him in many ways and on the other hand is our miserable state, our days and nights are passing in committing sins, we hurt the Blessed and Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but we do not even realize this.

Remember! Undoubtedly, the Greatest and Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes the entire situation and happenings of the people of his Ummah. Therefore, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘My life is better for you, you talk to me and I talk to you, and my (apparent) death is also better for you, your deeds will be presented to me, when I will see good deeds I will praise Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, when I will see bad deeds, I will ask forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for you.’ (Al-Musnad-ul-Bazzaar, Hadees 1935)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of every action of his Ummati. The blessed eyes of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can view everything whether hidden, apparent. The one whose eyes are filled with the kohl of ‘ مَازَاغ ’ [Maazaagh], the speed of his gaze is beyond our thinking and imagination, he sees everything, and the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم observes everything with his gaze. Mystics say: Here action refers to the state and action of the heart, therefore, the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of the state of our hearts. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, Hadees 439)

تم ہو شہید و بصیر اور میں گنہ پر دلیر

کھول دو چشمِ حیاء تم پہ کروروں دُرود

Interpretation of the couplet: O my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made you witness to each and every particle of the universe where no part of the universe is hidden from you, you are watching everything and you are also watching how fearless I am in my sins, open my eyes of shame and decency so that I may feel ashamed while committing sins. Millions of Allah’s blessings be upon the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt that the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is aware of all our actions, our virtuous deeds make him pleased and evil

actions sadden him. So, we should carry out more and more virtuous deeds, recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly, acting upon the Sunnah and also teach others in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who will make intercession on the Day of Judgement for his sinful Ummatis and would lead us to Jannah along with him.

یا الٰہی جب پڑے محشر میں شورِ دارو گیر امن دینے والے پیارے پیشوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی جب زبانیں باہر آئیں پیاس سے صاحبِ کوثر شہِ جود و عطا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی سرد مِہری پر ہو جب خورشیدِ حشر سیّدِ بے سایہ کے ظِلّ لِوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی گرمِیِ محشر سے جب بھڑکیں بدن دامنِ محبوب کی ٹھنڈی ہوا کا ساتھ ہو

یا الٰہی نامۂ اعمال جب کُھلنے لگیں عیب پوشِ خلق ستّارِ خطا کا ساتھ ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna ‘Umar’s patronymic is ‘Abu Hafs’ and his title is ‘Farooq-e-A’zam’. According to a narration, in the sixth year of the proclamation of Prophet- hood, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the 40 th person to embrace Islam. In fact, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ embraced Islam by virtue of the supplication made by the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his favour. By his acceptance of Islam the Muslims became extremely happy and they received such a great support that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم offered Salah openly in congregation with the Muslims inside the sacred Haram. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remained engaged in Islamic expeditions against evil unbelievers with his splendid efforts. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ contributed in all Islamic campaigns and in all strategic decisions of war and peace headed by the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as a faithful minister and friend. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ nominated Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as the caliph after him. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ executed all the responsibilities of caliphate marvellously and proved to be a worthy successor of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

One of the wicked unbelievers named Abu Loolu Firawz (a fire worshipper) attacked Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with a dagger during Salat-ul-Fajr. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ succumbed to the fatal injury and received the honour of martyrdom on the third day of the attack. At the time of his death he was 63 years old.

Sayyiduna Suhayb رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ led his funeral Salah. On Sunday, the 1 st of Muharram-ul-Haraam, 24 Hijri, this great companion of the Greatest Prophet was buried beside Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ who was resting beside the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah fi Manaqib Al-Asharah, vol. 1, pp. 285, 408, 418)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless them and forgive us without any accountability for their sake!

شہادت اے خدا عطا ر کو دیدے مدینے میں کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! One’s love to his parents, siblings, children, wealth and property is natural. If any person forgets any of his relative or family member and stop loving him then it would not damage his Iman, his Iman will remain intact because Iman does not entail their love whereas having faith in the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, having honour and deep reverence and having devotional love for him is ‘ جُزۡوِ لَا يَنۡفَك ’ i.e., inevitable and unpreventable element for his Deen . So, it is of great importance for the true Muslim to have devotion towards the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم more than any relation and any dearer thing of the world.

A beautiful Hadees is reported in Sahih Bukhari: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin Hishaam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: We were sitting in the blessed company of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, who w as holding the hand of Sayyiduna

‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ كُلِّ شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ i.e., O Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! You are dearer to me than everything except my own self. The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ لَا وَالَّذِي نَفۡسِي بِيَدِهِ حَتَّى اَكُونَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡكَ مِنۡ نَفۡسِكَ ’ No, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, (you will not have complete love) till I am dearer to you than your own self. Then Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘ وَاللّٰهِ لَاَنۡتَ اَحَبُّ اِلَيَّ مِنۡ نَفۡسِي ’ O Beloved Prophet (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you are dearer to me than my own self.

Listening to this, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘ الۡآنَ يَا عُمَرُ ’ Now, O ‘Umar, (your love is perfect) . (Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, Hadees 6632)

Dear Islamic brothers! This love is not just specific to Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ alone but it is for each and every individual Muslim who is alive until this world exists because the love of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is such a thing without which our faith remains incomplete. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said:

لَايُؤۡمِنُ اَحَدُكُمۡ حَتّٰي اَكُوۡنَ اَحَبَّ اِلَيۡهِ مِنۡ وَّالِدِه وَ وَلَدِه وَ النَّاسِ اَجۡمَعِيۡن

None of you can be a true believer [Mu`min] until I am dearer to him than his father, his children and all the people. (Sahih Bukhari, pp. 17, Hadees 14, vol. 1)

Undoubtedly, a Muslim should have reverence and love for the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم because it is the most priceless and valuable asset of his life.

تُمہاری یاد کو کیسے نہ زِندگی سمجھوں یہی تو ایک سہارا ہے زِندگی کیلئے

میرے تو آپ ہی سب کچھ ہیں رَحمتِ عالَم میں جی رہا ہوں زَمانے میں آپ ہی کیلئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The deep and devotional love of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ towards the Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is beyond any description! He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would be in tears whenever he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ remembered the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Aslam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated, when Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would speak about the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would grieve and begin to weep and would state, ‘The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most merciful to the people, a father to the orphan and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the bravest person amongst the people; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had a luminous face, sweet & pleasant fragrance and according to lineage, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most worthy and honourable, none is like him from the predecessors and successors.’ (Jam’-ul-Jawami’, vol. 10, pp. 16, Hadees 33)

ہے کلامِ اِلٰہی میں شَمس و ضُحٰے ترے چہرۂ نور فَزا کی قسم

قسمِ شبِ تار میں راز یہ تھا کہ حبیب کی زُلفِ دوتا کی قسم

تِرے خُلق کو حَق نے عظیم کہا تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہوا ہے نہ ہوگا شہا ترے خالِقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Dear Islamic brothers! The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is our Master and we are his humble bondsmen and no matter how great a rank somebody gets, his true love for his Master always remains in his heart, he never forgets his favours, he glorifies his Master in public with great pride and loves to be his bondsman. Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was a true lover, one who was guaranteed Jannah and possessed a high rank amongst the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also proud to be a bondsman and servant of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Sa’eed Bin Musayyab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was appointed as caliph, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ addressed them from the pulpit:

كُنۡتُ مَعَ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَسَلَّمَ فَكُنۡتُ عَبۡدَه ٗ وَخَادِمَهُ

I have been in the blessed company of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, therefore, I was his slave and servant. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, pp. 332)

میں تو کہا ہی چاہوں کہ بندہ ہوں شاہ کا

پر لُطف جب ہے کہہ دیں اگر وہ جناب ہُوں

Interpretation of couplet: I say that I am the slave and servant of my Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! It will be of great pleasure if you say: Yes you are my bondsman.

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam’s claim of having deep devotion towards the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not bound to just his lip service rather he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was truly a loyal and staunch follower of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ acted upon the Sunnah throughout his life. But alas! We claim to be loyal to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that:

جان بھی میں تو دے دوں خُدا کی قسم!

کوئی مانگے اگر مُصطفٰے کے لئے

But our character and deeds do not reflect this. Remember! To love the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم does not mean holding congregations, making Zikr, reciting Na’at loudly or chanting slogans whilst raising our hands, remaining awake all the night long then sleeping without offering Salat-ul-Fajr, missing the five times Salahs even the Jumu’ah Salah, shaving off the beard or keeping it to less than the length of a fist, adopting new fashions & style whilst abandoning the Sunnah way of living, showing ill-manners and other evils instead of treating others with courtesy; how could these actions lead to sincere and perfect love? On the other hand true love demands that we should acknowledge the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to be the most

Eminent and Highest Ranked of all people while fulfilling the rights, it is to be understood in this way that we accept the Deen brought by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we show deep reverence to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, everyone should maintain the pleasure of the blessed personality of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم over our family, wealth and property.

(Ashi’a-ul-Lam’aat, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 50)

Strive to refrain from what is forbidden and if as a human weakness, any wrongdoing is committed then seek true forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the hope of being spared by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and seeking the intercession of Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Judgement and never have any such thought in future to commit the same sin again.

Let’s make a true and sincere intention that from now we shall not miss any Salah اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ rather we would perform all past Salahs which are missed اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; we would try to refrain from sins such as lying, backbiting, cheating, deceiving etc.; we would wear clothing according to the Sunnah, we shall rid ourselves of fashionable clothing اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ and we would watch only Madani Channel, whilst abandoning movies, songs, music اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

میں بچنا چاہتا ہوں ہائے پھر بھی بچ نہیں پاتا گُناہوں کی پڑی ہے ایسی عادت یا رسول الله

کمر اعمالِ بَد نے ہائے! میری توڑ کر رکھ دی تباہی سے بچا لو جانِ رحمت یا رسول الله

مِرے منہ کی سیاہی سے اندھیری رات شرمائے مِرا چہرہ ہو تاباں نورِ عزّت یا رسول الله

بوقتِ نزع آقا ہو نہ جاؤں میں کہیں برباد مِرا ایمان رکھ لینا سلامت یا رسول الله

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

One of the signs of perfect and true love is also that the one who has devotion deeply loves everything that is associated and attached with his beloved. How remarkable and excellent is the devotional love of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ to the most Renowned and

Revered Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he not only had true devotion to the Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also had profound devotion and love to the Beloved’s descendants, even everything which had some Nisbah (connection) to the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and this very thing is required for true and sincere devotion. The blessed biography of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ contains plenty of beautiful parables which reveal his profound devotional love to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to one such beautiful parable.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in the 1 st and 2 nd verse of Surah Al-Balad, part 30:

لَاۤ اُقۡسِمُ بِہٰذَا ا لۡبَلَدِ ۙ﴿۱﴾ وَ اَ نۡتَ حِلٌّۢ بِہ ٰ ذَ ا ا لۡبَلَدِ ۙ﴿۲﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: I swear by this city (Makkah) – For you (O dear Prophet Muhammad) are in this city. (Part 30, Surah Al-Balad, verse 1-2)

Dear Islamic brothers! The great commentators of the Glorious Quran have consensus upon this fact that the blessed city for which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ takes an oath is ‘Makka-tul-Mukarramah’. Indicating to this blessed verse, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said to the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! Your exalted rank and status is so high that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ took an oath of sand beneath your blessed feet through ‘ لَآ اُقۡسِمُ بِهٰذَا الۡبَلَدِ ’.

(Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 493)

Dear Islamic brothers! Through the aforementioned narration, we have learnt that Sayyiduna Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to love the sacred city of Makka-tul-Mukarramah, because the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was living there, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had the same profound devotion to the blessed city of Madina-tul-Munawwarah as can be understood from his blessed Du’a which he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to make before his demise; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to ask Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

اَللّٰهُمَّ ارۡزُقۡنِي شَهَادَةً فِي سَبِيۡلِكَ وَاجۡعَلۡ

مَوۡتِي فِي بَلَدِ رَسُولِكَ صَلَّي اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّمَ

i.e., O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant me martyrdom in Your cause and let my death be in the blessed city of Your Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 622, Hadees 1890)

Both the Du’as of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ were answered. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on him and may He forgive us without holding us accountable for his sake!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

شہادت اے خدا عطا ر کو دیدے مدینے میں کرم فرما اِلٰہی! واسطہ فاروقِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If a person loves someone, then he should become like him; he should try to spend his entire life by emulating his style and obeying him. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be judged by this that he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ followed the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ once wore new clothing, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ then asked for a knife and said, ‘O son! Pull its long sleeves from the beginning and cut it from the place ahead of my fingers.’

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘I cut it but it was not cut straight but from top and bottom (of sleeves).’ I humbly said, ‘Father! If it had been cut using a pair of scissors, it would have been better?’ He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Son! Leave it the same because I saw the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم cut in the same way.’ I, therefore, cut my sleeves with a knife. When Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ had cut the sleeves, the clothing was in such a poor condition that threads were falling down from it. (Al-Mustadrak lil-Haakim, Hadees 7498)

The beloved companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were indeed true lovers of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and with true devotion, love and obedience, nothing could prevent him from acting upon the blessed Sunnah, he cut his sleeves with a knife resulting in the cutting not being straight but he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ did not feel any shame wearing that clothing. This was the remarkable obedience he had to the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم indeed.

Sayyiduna Hasan Basri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ (who was the chief of the Muslims of that area) was once eating food when a morsel fell from his hand on the ground. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ picked it up, cleaned and then ate it. Seeing this, some uncivilized people who were present over there gave him a contemptuous look. Someone said to him, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bless our chief! O our leader! These uncivilized people are looking scornfully at you because you have eaten a fallen morsel despite the availability of food.’ Listening to this, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ replied, ‘I cannot give up what I have learnt from the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم merely because of these ‘Ajamis [non-Arabs]. If a morsel of food ever fell down, we would ask each other to pick it up, clean and eat it, and not leave it for Satan [to consume].’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 17, Hadees 3278)

رُوحِ اِیماں مَغزِ قرآں جانِ دیں ہَست حُبِّ رَحمةٌ لِّلعٰلَمِیں

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how intensely Sayyiduna Ma’qil Bin Yasaar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, an eminent companion, loved the Sunnah! Paying no attention to the insulting and annoying behaviour of the ‘Ajamis, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ continued bravely to practice upon the Sunnah.

Unfortunately, some unwise Muslims these days do not grow their beards assuming it to be a wise act in the modern era. In fact, a true wise act is to grow a beard, wear an ‘Imamah (turban) according to the Sunnah and carry out one’s daily routines like eating, walking etc. Completely in conformity with the Sunnah, no matter how unfavourable the environment is, and how severe is the criticism from the worldly people.

Furthermore, one should also strive to call people towards righteousness. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, our mutual efforts will produce fruitful results, the truth will prevail, Satan will be disgraced and the message of the blessed Sunnah will spread everywhere and every house will be illuminated with the blessed Noor of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

شَہا ایسا جَذبہ پاؤں کہ میں خُوب سیکھ جاؤں تیری سُنَّتیں سکھانا مدنی مدینے والے

تیری سُنَّتوں پہ چل کر میری رُوح جب نکل کر چلے تم گلے لگانا مدنی مدینے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is not the demand of love that we take deep interest in the person we love and confine our love to him only. Instead a lover loves everything that is related to his beloved such as his family, relatives and friends.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that during the period of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ with the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم conquered Madaain and the spoils of war was brought to Madina-tul-Munawwarah. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ spread out mats in Masjid-un-Nabawi and asked for all the spoils of war to be place on them. The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم gathered to get the spoils of war. First of all, Sayyiduna Imam Hasan رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! Give me my share out of the possessions/spoils of war that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon the Muslims. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect be upon you.’

And by saying this he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ also gave 1000 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ received his share and left. Thereafter, Sayyiduna Imam Husayn رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect be upon you’ and gave him 1000 dirhams. Then his son Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Umar رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stood up and asked for his share. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Great respect be upon you’ and gave him 500 dirhams. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly said, ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen! I was participating with my sword in battle with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even from that time when (Sayyiduna) Hasan and Husayn (رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا) were very young. Instead of this you have given me 500 dirhams and to them 1000 dirhams each.

Upon hearing this, overwhelmed by devotion to the Ahl-e-Bayt he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said, ‘Yes, absolutely! (If you want me to give you the share equal to them) then go and first get the father like the father of Hasnayn Karimayn, mother like their mother, maternal grandfather like their maternal grandfather, maternal grandmother like theirs, paternal uncle like theirs, maternal uncle like theirs and you can never do this because ‘ اَبُوۡهُمَا فَعَلِيُّ الۡمُرۡتَضٰى ’ their father is Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم, ‘ اُمُّهُمَا فَفَاطِمَةُ الزَّهۡرَاء ’ Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz- Zahra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their mother, ‘ جَدُّهُمَا مُحَمَّدُ نِ الۡمُصۡطَفٰي ’ Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is their maternal grandfather, ‘ جَدَّتُهُمَا خَدِيۡجَةُ الۡكُبۡرٰى ’ Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is their maternal grandmother; ‘ عَمُّهُمَا جَعۡفَرُ بۡنُ اَبِيۡ طَالِبٍ ’ Sayyiduna Ja’far Bin Abi Taalib is their paternal uncle; ‘ خَالُهُمَا اِبۡرَاهِيۡمُ بۡنُ رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ Sayyiduna Ibraheem (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ) Bin Rasoolullah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is their maternal uncle, ‘ خَالَتَاهُمَا رُقَيَّةُ وَ اُمُّ كُلۡثُوۡمٍ اِبۡنَتَا رَسُوۡلِ اللّٰهِ ’ the daughters of Rasoolullah Sayyidah Ruqayyah and Sayyidah Umm-e-Kulsoom رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا are their maternal aunts. (Ar-Riyad-un-Nadarah, vol. 1, pp. 340)

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, this is a very unique style of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s devotion to the Ahl-e-Bayt. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ gave a double share to the blessed sons of the Ahl-e-Bayt as compared to his own son. From this incident, we may learn this Madani pearl

that we should treat the Sadaat-e-Kiram kindly and affectionately and respect and revere them a lot because apart from the blessed companions and the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم Sadaat-e-Kiram also deserve reverence and honour in connection with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, today the devotion of Sayyiduna Farooq-e-A’zam to the Ahl-e-Bayt can be seen in his devotees as well. It is for this reason that Ameer-e- Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـ ه has great reverence and respect for the Sadaat-e- Kiram. When meeting somebody, if Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـ ه is told that he is a Sayyid Sahib, it has been seen many times that he, very humbly, kisses the hand of that Sayyid Sahib. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـ ه makes him sit beside him. He treats the sons of Sadaat-e-Kiram kindly and affectionately; whenever things are given out are distributed, he gives them twice the amount.

Dear Islamic brothers! The people who love Sadaat-e-Kiram are many in number. Unfortunately there are such people as well who are unaware of the importance and excellence of Sadaat-e-Kiram or they are lazy in serving them. They are ready to provide every type of luxuries to their children, but for the offspring of the Beloved Prophet i.e. Sadaat-e-Kiraam, they are hesitant to spend even a single cent. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: One who treats any of my Ahl-e-Bayt well, I will reward him for this on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami-us-Sagheer, pp. 533, Hadees 8821)

So we should treat Sadaat-e-Kiram well to make this world and Hereafter better for us. We should continue serving them for gaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

ہم کو سارے سیّدوں سے پیار ہے

ان شاء الله دوجہاں میں اپنا بیڑا پار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! If you want to read the incidents of the devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of other blessed companions like Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, do study a very good 274-page book regarding devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم named ‘ Sahabah Kiram ka ‘Ishq-e-Rasool ’ [The Blessed Companions’ Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. This book can be read online from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net, or downloaded as well. Likewise, to develop devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the blessed companions and the Ahl-e-Bayt رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, always associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will be able to receive plenty of wealth in the form of good deeds, make your mind of hating sins. It will also make your Hereafter better.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, In today’s Bayan we have had the privilege of getting beautiful parables and by the way important Madani pearls of Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam’s devotion to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ By the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ due to this perfect devotion, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ received authority and power in the world and reverence and respect in the Hereafter.

§ Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has taught the Muslims till the Day of Judgement the manner of loving the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by establishing a beautiful example of devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ In this sinful era, it is necessary that we associate ourselves with such a Madani environment in which the lovers of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are talked about and the incidents of devotion to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are mentioned. By virtue of this, the devotion to Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will develop in our hearts and it will also increase the passion for practising.

§ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, such a lovely environment is offered by Dawat-e-Islami, therefore, we all should associate ourselves with this Madani environment. We should attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and weekly Madani Muzakarahs from beginning to end. We should continue striving to travel with Madani Qafilahs and act upon the Madani In’amaat. It will bring about a Madani transformation in our lives and we will also become regular in practicing the blessed Sunnah to become righteous Muslims, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us true lovers of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and enable us to spread the Sunnah everywhere, keeping in mind the demands of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Several departments have been established in the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami for calling people towards righteousness and spreading the Sunnah. One of these departments is ‘Majlis Special Islamic Brothers’. In the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, blind, deaf and dumb Islamic brothers are called special Islamic brothers. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this Majlis is playing its role to spread the call towards righteousness among these Islamic brothers and to make them people of good character of the society. In addition to this, Majlis Special Islamic Brothers intends to publish books comprising of (Fard ‘Uloom) compulsory knowledge for every Muslim. This Majlis also intends to introduce worldly knowledge/sciences to the blind, deaf and dumb Islamic brothers in addition to providing them with Islamic knowledge. Similarly, for blind Islamic brothers Madrasa-tul-Madinah will be established very soon, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تیری دُھوم مَچی ہو!

In order to gain further religious knowledge and to act upon Sunnahs and to spread the call towards righteousness all over the world, participate in the twelve Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami. One of them is the ‘Weekly Ijtima’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the weekly Ijtima’ held by Dawat-e-Islami is adorned with the flowers of recitation of the Holy Quran, Na’at, Sunnah-inspiring speeches, highly emotive Du’as with weeping, Zikr and Salat-‘Alan-Nabi, Madani pearls of Salat and Salaam and Islamic knowledge. Undoubtedly, to attend such Ijtima’aat is a means of obtaining plenty of rewards and blessings. The weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ begins after Salat-ul-Maghrib with the recitation of Surah Al-Mulk; blessed Na’at is recited after the recitation of the Holy Quran, then Sunnah-inspiring speech is delivered. Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also done in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’.

After Zikr, Du’a is also made, nobody knows as to how many people’s Du’as are answered and how many sinful people become people of good character. Let me relate a Madani parable to you.

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi has stated: Which sins of mine should I mention! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, not offering Salah, playing computer games, watching obscene programmes on television every day, lying and even stealing were some of the sins I used to commit fearlessly.

Luckily, in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1421 A.H. 2000, I was blessed with the privilege of taking part in the congregational I’tikaf with some lovers of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of Dawat-e-Islami in Jaami’ Masjid Aaminah, situated in Shakeel Garden, Aukhai complex, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. After the congregational I’tikaf, I joined the Madrasa-tul-Madinah that was held on the second floor of Aaminah Masjid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I began to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami which was held in Faizan-e-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my efforts, a Madani atmosphere has been created in my home. I play the cassettes of Sunnah-Inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah at

home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have memorised the entire Holy Quran and I’m currently doing Dars-e-Ni z ami in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. I also teach in Madrasa-tul-Madinah and I am trying to spread the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami under the guidance of the Nigran of my Zayli Mushawarat.

­­­

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘He who loves my Sunnah, loves me, and he who loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

1. It is Sunnah t o say Salam when meeting a Muslim.

2. Here is a summary of a section on page 102, volume 16 of Bahar-e-Shari’at published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah: ‘One should say Salam with the intention that the wealth, reputation and dignity of this person is under my protection and I consider it Haraam [unlawful ] to violate these rights .’ (Bahar-e-Shari’at, pp. 102, vol. 16)

3. It is Sawab to say Salam to Muslims at every meeting, even if one is frequently leaving and entering a room.

4. It is Sunnah to be the first in saying Salam .

5. The one to say Salam first, is closer to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

6. The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘The one to say Salam first is free from pride. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 433, vol. 6)

7. Ninety mercies descend upon the one who says Salam first and ten mercies descend upon the one who replies. (Kimiya-e-Sa’adat)

8. 1. One receives 10 good deeds for saying اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ, 20 good deeds if وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ is further added, 30 if وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ is also added. Some people add جنَّت الْمَقام and دَوزَخُ الْحَرام but this is incorrect. Some people add other words according to their whims, regarding which, Imam-e- Ahl -e- Sunnat, Mujaddid of the Ummah, reviver of the Sunnah, destroyer of Bid’ah, scholar of sacred law, guide of spirituality, fountain of blessing, ‘ Allamah, Maulana, Al- Haaj, Al-Hafiz, Al- Qari, Ash -Shah, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن writes in his classical work of Fiqh, Fatawa Razawiyyah: One should at least say the words اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ ; it is better to add وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہِ and it would be best to add وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ, but nothing more. The one replying must say at least the same words however, it is better to add the aforementioned words. For example, if one is greeted with اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ then one should reply with وَ عَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ الل ّٰ ہ . If he is greeted with اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ, then one should reply وَعَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ الل ّٰ ہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ . If one is greeted wi th اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ وَ رَحْمَۃُ اللّٰہ ِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ, then one should reply with the same words nothing more . وَاللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى اَعۡلَم

9. 2. The one replying can receive 30 good deeds as well by saying وَ عَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ وَ رَحْمَۃُ الل ّٰ ہِ وَ بَرَکَاتُہٗ in return.

10. It is Wajib [ obligatory] to reply with Salam immediately in a voice audible to the one who greeted you with Salam .

11. Learn the correct pronunciation of the Salam . First, I will say it then you repeat after me (اَسْ۔سَلَا۔مُ۔عَلَی۔کُمْ) اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ, now I will say the reply and you repeat it after me, وَ عَلَیْکُمُ السَّلَامُ (وَ۔عَ۔لَیْكُ۔مُسْ۔سَلَام) .

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar -e- Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Aadaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba - tul -Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat -e- Islami . One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat -e- Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read.

