اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Forbearance of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever recites Salat 100 times upon me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and Hellfire, and will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement .’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 253, Hadees 17298)

باغِ جنَّت میں محمد مُسکَراتے جائیں گے

پھول رَحمَت کے جھڑیں گے ہم اُٹھاتے جائیں گے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Intentions of delivering the Bayan

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Each of us wants to attain the goodness of this world and the Hereafter, for this we have to follow and obey our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every matter of ours, because the blessed sayings, blessed acts, blessed etiquettes, blessed habits and all the blessed qualities and virtues of the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are the sources of salvation. Today, we will listen to the Hilm (forbearance), one of the pure qualities, of the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . What is forbearance? What is its definition and importance? Let us first listen to a faith-refreshing parable about the Hilm of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم bought a camel in exchange for a Wasq (540 pounds of dates). When he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived at his blessed home for the dates, they were not found. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم returned to that Bedouin and said, ‘Abdullah! We bought a camel in exchange for a Wasq, but despite searching a lot, the Wasq of dates could not be found.’ Having heard this, the Bedouin started crying loudly, ‘Alas! I have been deceived! Alas, I have been deceived!’ When the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم heard this they rushed to reprimand the Bedouin and said to him, ‘You speak such things about the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Leave him, because the person who has a rightful claim has the right to speak.’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said this twice or thrice, but despite the Bedouin being made to understand, he still did not understand, then the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ordered a blessed companion to go to Khaulah Bint-e-Hakeem and say, ‘If you have a Wasq of dates, give us! اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will return it to you.’

That companion went to Khaulah Bint-e-Hakeem رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and told her, ‘The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: If you have a Wasq of dates, give us, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will be returned to you.’ She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا said that she did have some and asked him to send someone to fetch them.’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Take this Bedouin and give him the dates which are his due!’

When the Bedouin returned with his dates, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was present among the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . He humbly said, ‘ جَزَاكَ اللّٰهُ خَيۡرًا! (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ give you a good reward) You gave what was due to me in a very good manner.’ The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Amongst people the best are those who give the whole share in a good manner.’ (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 7, pp. 20)

خُلقِ عظیم سے مجھے حصہ عطا کرو! بے جا ہنسی کی خصلتِ بَد کو نکال دو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was very forgiving and extremely kind and tolerant. Despite having the power to take revenge, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forgave the one who accused him of denying the purchase in public, and displayed excellent manners. From this narration, we have also learnt that during buying and selling in business one should be tolerant, truthful and honest. If someone says something that is painful to the one who is either a salesman or a buyer, then in order to store good deeds for the Hereafter, he should remain tolerant. By taking revenge, hatred will develop with each other besides adding fuel to the fire. By using offensive language and laying allegations, a person may start committing grave sins. Therefore, each of us must exhibit patience and not only protect ourselves but also try to protect others from sins instead of being angry, staring angrily others and exaggerating the situation. We should treat everyone well as this has great blessings.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’labah Khushani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Undoubtedly amongst you the most beloved and the closest to me in the Hereafter will be that person who will have the best manners, and amongst you the person I dislike the most and who will be far away from me in the Hereafter will be that person who has the worst of manners.’

(Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vo. 6, pp. 220, Raqm 17747)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘The most favourite people to me are those amongst you who are best in manners, soft-hearted, love people and whom people love, and amongst you the most disliked people to me are the backbiters who sow the seeds of discord between two friends and find faults in those people with a righteous character.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, Kitab-ul-Adab, vol. 8, pp. 47, Raqm 12668)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the blessings of having good manners! The person who is good-mannered succeeds in the world and the Hereafter both, whereas the one who is ill-mannered is not liked by anyone. He is considered bad in the world, and in the Hereafter disgraced in his destiny.

Narrating the signs of good manners, Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali عَـلَـیۡـهِ رَحْـمَـةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـوَالِی has said: The embodiment of courtesy and politeness is that person who is the most modest, does not harm anyone, performs good deeds, speaks the truth, remains habitually silent, is habitual of practising deeds, prevents himself from mistakes as much as possible, avoids useless talks, is righteous, dignified, tolerant, content with the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thankful, soft-hearted, of pure character, and affectionate. He should not be the one who curses, abuses, backbites, makes haste, bears malice, is not stingy and jealous rather he should be cheerful, and he should love just for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and is pleased and displeased with someone for the sake of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom .vol. 3, pp. 86)

Therefore, we should not only refrain from bad deeds and being impolite ourselves but also have good wishes for our Muslims brothers and persuade them to also have excellent manners. To obtain more information about the excellences and blessings of courtesy and politeness, read the 99-page book ‘ Husn-e-Akhlaq [Islamic Manners] ’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

This remarkable book contains precious Madani pearls about courtesy and politeness. It can be downloaded from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

اس کو مولٰی تُو گناہوں سے بچانا ہر گھڑی

اس کو با اَخلاق با کِردار نیک انساں بنا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had such a distinctive and unparalleled rank of good-manners and courtesy that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself has stated in the Glorious Quran:

وَ اِنَّکَ لَعَلٰی خُلُقٍ عَظِیۡمٍ ﴿۴﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed you possess an exemplary character. (Part 29, Surah Al-Qalam, verse 4)

The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ بُعِثۡتُ لِاُتَمِّمَ مَكَارِمَ الۡاَخۡلَاق ’, i.e. I have been sent for the completion of good manners.

(Nawadir-ul-Usool lil-Hakeem Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 1107, Hadees 1425)

Therefore, that blessed personality whose purpose of being sent is to teach good manners, then what would be the state of his great manners!

Dear Islamic brothers! Out of the pure attributes of our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم one beautiful attribute is forbearance. Forbearance means to suppress the anger by your own character. (Footnote: Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 293) i.e. to suppress anger when a person is filled with it, is called forbearance. Remember! Anger is in the human nature and a fact where we

have no power; we are not responsible for it, but to become uncontrollable due to being angry is a bad deed. Therefore, when a person gets angry, suppress it by displaying forbearance. Suppressing one’s anger and remaining patient has countless virtues. Please listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Amongst you the strongest is the one who controls his anger when filled with it and the most tolerant is the one who despite having power, forgives. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Akhlaq, vol. 3, pp. 207, Hadees 7694)

2. Desire respect and piety from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked, ‘How?’ It was said, ‘Those who break ties with you, have a kind relationship with them, those who deprive you, bestow upon them, and those who treat you ignorantly, adopt tolerance towards them. (Mawsu’ah Imam Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 2, pp. 22, Hadees 4)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed the extent to which we have been persuaded to have tolerance in the blessed Ahadees! We should also make efforts to adopt this noble quality. In the beginning, it may be difficult, but things will get easier with true love and effort. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Knowledge is obtained by gaining it. Forbearance is developed by the virtue of tolerance and one who tries to attain goodness, is given goodness and one who wants to be safe from evil, is saved.

(Tareekh-e-Madinah Dimashq, vol. 18, pp. 99)

Just ponder over the part of this blessed Hadees, ‘ Forbearance is developed by the virtue of tolerance ’ and make an intention that we will also make efforts to develop the attribute of tolerance in ourselves, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Regarding forbearance and soft-heartedness, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has no example at all. Praising the soft-heartedness of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in verse 159 of Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, part 4:

فَبِمَا رَحۡمَۃٍ مِّنَ اللّٰہِ لِنۡتَ لَہُمۡ ۚ وَ لَوۡ کُنۡتَ فَظًّا غَلِیۡظَ ا لۡقَلۡبِ لَا نۡفَضُّوۡ ا مِنۡ حَوۡ لِکَ ۪

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So what a great mercy it is from Allah that you (O dear Prophet Muhammad), are lenient towards them; and if you had been stern and hard-hearted (unsympathetic) they would have certainly been uneasy in your company. (Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, verse 159)

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Amr رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: I have seen the qualities of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the earlier books; he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is neither narrow-minded nor hard-hearted, nor one who makes a noise in the markets nor one who does evil in response to an evil, but rather he is one who forgives. (Tafseer Ibn Kaseer, vol. 2, pp. 130)

Dear Islamic brothers! The most Compassionate and Merciful Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had such a great and illustrious personality due to his blessed habit of forgiving others without taking any revenge despite having the ability and power to do so that there is no example in history. When the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم journeyed to Taif to spread the message of Islam, Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Haarisah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ accompanied him. There were many influential and rich people in Taif. Amongst these influential people, the family of ‘Amr were distinguished from all the tribes; they were three brothers ‘Abd-e-Yaaleel, Mas’ood and Habib. Upon reaching the city, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم went straight to the houses of these three brothers, he invited them to Islam but they did not embrace Islam, on the contrary, they responded in the most discourteous and vulgar manner. These unfortunate people were not only stubborn but they incited the wicked people to attack the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and as a result they began to throw stones at the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from all sides, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was badly wounded, his blessed feet were bleeding and his blessed shoes were filled with blood, due to the unbearable pains of the wounds he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would sit, these cruel and barbaric people would force him to stand by mercilessly and ruthlessly holding his arms and when

he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would begin to walk again, they would stone him again and would insult him.

Sayyiduna Zayd Bin Haarisah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ tried much to defend him and protect him by receiving the stones on his own body that even he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was also bleeding so badly and was wounded all over his body. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then sought refuge in an orchard of grapes.

(Al-Mawahib-ul-Ladunniyyah, vol. 1, pp. 136, 137)

حق کی راہ میں پتھر کھائے خوں میں نہائے طائف میں

دِین کا کتنی محنت سے کام آپ نے اے سلطان کیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A long time after this journey, once, Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly asked the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Did you have any tougher day than the battle of Uhud?’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Yes, O ‘Aaishah! That day was tougher day than the day of the Battle of Uhud, when I called the chief ‘Ibn ‘Abd-e-Yaaleel’ to Islam. He rejected it with disgust and the people of Taif stoned me. Filled with this grief, I kept walking until I reached a place called ‘Qarn-us-Sa’aalib’ and gathered myself.

Having reached there when I raised my head I saw a cloud with its shadow over me. (Sayyiduna) Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام) called out to me from the cloud and said that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has heard the saying and answer of your nation and now the angel of the mountains is present before you to obey your command. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said that after making Salaam to me the angel of mountains humbly said that O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! If you want me to overturn both the mountains ‘Akhshabayn’ (Abu Qubays and Qu’ayqi’aan) over these unbelievers, I will do so. Having heard this, the Prophet

of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘No’, but rather I hope that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will create such bondsmen out of their races who will only worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and will not commit Shirk (attribute partners to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 386, Hadees 3231)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that after experiencing such cruelty, the Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not take revenge and nor did he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم curse them. Thus, the whole blessed life-history of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is adorned with such matchless parables. But, the most distinctive forbearance and gentleness showed by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is on the occasion of the conquest of Makkah which is truly beyond imagination and no such example can ever be found in history.

It is reported that when Makkah was conquered and the disbelievers and Satan along with their followers were badly humiliated and dishonoured, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم inquired from the people of Makkah: O Quraysh! What do you think, how will I treat you?’ They humbly said: ‘ نَظُنُّ خَيۡرًا ’ i.e., We expect goodness from the (Beloved) Prophet, ‘ نَبِيُّ كَرِيۡمٌ وَ اَخٌ كَرِيۡمُ وَ ابۡنُ اَخٍ كَرِيۡمٍ وَ قَدۡ قُدِرۡتَ ’ because you are a Prophet, you have a sweet and gentle disposition and you are the son of our kind and merciful brother; Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) have empowered you upon us . To this, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had stated, ‘I will say to you the same thing which my brother Yusuf (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام) said to his brothers (then the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم recited the following blessed verse):

لَا تَثۡرِ یۡبَ عَلَیۡکُمُ ا لۡیَوۡ مَ ؕ یَغۡفِرُ اللّٰہُ لَکُمۡ ۫ وَ ہُوَ اَرۡحَمُ ا لرّٰ حِمِیۡنَ ﴿۹۲﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: There is no reproach on you, this day! May Allah forgive you – and He is the Utmost Merciful, of all those who show mercy. (Part 13, Surah Yusuf, verse 92)

Go! You are all free. (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 5, pp. 242)

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What a great eminence and glory, the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم possessed! The people, who greatly persecuted him and hurt him in so many different ways during his preaching of Islam to such an extent that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had to even abandon his native land, but their atrocities were not yet over, even after the migration, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was not left in peace rather they put him into severe hardships and troubles and on the day of the conquest of Makkah when the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم had the dominance over Makkah, then instead of taking revenge, the Merciful Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم showed great forbearance and affection and forgave them all.

جان کے دشمن خون کے پیاسوں کو بھی شَہرِ مکہ میں

عام معافی تم نے عطا کی کتنا بڑا احسان کیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Our condition is such that we make the trivial disagreements of each other our problems for our whole lives and do not want to reconcile. It was the practice of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he never took revenge for himself. Let’s listen to 4 parables about the Beloved Prophet’s forbearance in order to develop the Sunnah of forbearance of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in our character:

1. Once during a journey, the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asleep. Meanwhile, Ghawras Bin Haaris grabbed his sword and unsheathed it to kill him. When the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم awoke, Ghawras asked, ‘O Muhammad! Who will save you from me?’ ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ replied the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Upon hearing the voice of Prophethood, he was stunned and the sword dropped from his hand. The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took the sword and asked, ‘Now who will save you from

1. me?’ Ghawras begged for his life to be spared. The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forgave him and let him go. When Ghawras returned to his tribe, he told them that he had returned from a person who is the best of all mankind. (Ash-Shifa, vol. 1, pp. 107)

سو بار تِرا دیکھ کر عفو اور تَرَحُّم ہر باغی و سرکش کا سر آخر کو جُھکا ہے

2. Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَ ـ عَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, ‘Once I was walking alongside the Merciful Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while he was wearing a Najraani shawl [1] with thick and rough edges. Suddenly, a Bedouin grabbed it and pulled it with such a violent jerk that it left a bruise on the blessed neck of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Thereafter, he said, ‘Order that I be given a share from the wealth, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given under your custody.’ The Prophet of Rahmah صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَ ـ عَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم turned his attention towards him and smiled and ordered that he be given some wealth.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 359, Hadees 3149)

3. Labeed Bin A’sam casted a magical spell on the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, but the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not take any revenge on him. Furthermore, he also pardoned the Jew who had poisoned him. (Ash-Shifa, vol. 1, pp. 105)

4. During Ghazwah [2] -e-Uhud, one of the blessed teeth of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, was martyred [broken] and his face was also wounded, but the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said nothing to them except: اَللّٰهُمَّ اهۡدِ قَوۡمِيۡ فَاِنَّهُمۡ لَا يَعۡلَمُوۡنَ (i.e. ‘ O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide my people, for they are unaware of me ’).

(Ash-Shifa, vol. 1, pp. 105)

مجھ پہ چشمِ شِفا کیجئے دُور بارِ گنہ کیجئے

قلب پتھر سے بھی سخت ہے اس کو نرمی عطا کیجئے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would treat everyone with love and affection, never becoming angry for anything personal, but when Shar’i boundaries were violated and the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ were disobeyed then only would he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم get angry.

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: I never saw the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم taking revenge for the injustice done to him; unless the prescribed limits of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ were violated, if that occurred then the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would get very angry. (Ash-Shumaail, pp. 198, Hadees 332)

Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: From the family of Quraysh (Makhzoom) a woman stole something, the Quraysh started thinking as to who would intercede with the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on her behalf. Finally, Sayyiduna Usamah Bin Zayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was chosen as he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was beloved to the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Sayyiduna Usamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ when interceded with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on her behalf, the Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Do you make intercession in the limits of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? Then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood up and delivered a sermon: O people! The people before you were destroyed because if a person of high rank had stolen (something), he would have been released and if a poor man had stolen (something), then he would be punished, by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! If Fatimah, the daughter of Muhammad, had stolen, I would have (even) cut her hand.’

(Sahih Muslim, Kitab-ul-Hudood, pp. 927, Hadees 1688)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that our Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is extremely kind and affectionate! He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even forgave his enemies who were cruel to him but when the violation of the Shari’ah was committed before him, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would get angry. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When anyone of you sees an evil deed, then stop it with your hand and the one who is unable to do that then stop it with your tongue and the one who is unable to that then consider it (the evil deed) bad in his heart, and this is the weakest sign of faith.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 44, Hadees 49)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should question our conscience whether we have ever considered a person committing a sin bad in our heart. Extremely regretfully! If the mother of our children delays in cooking the food, adds more salt to the food, or our children are absent from school, then we dislike it, but if our family members miss their five daily Salahs, we do not show any signs of displeasure; even no efforts are made to advise them. Just ponder! Some play music, no doubt if you are unable to stop him, but is it causing persistent annoyance to you? Are you considering it bad? No, because مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you have a musical tune in your mobile phone as well! If two people are abusing each other on the street, do we consider it bad? No, why, because sometimes we too make abuses. If someone tells a lie, do we get annoyed? Yes, why, because it harms us personally, we do not consider it bad for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we ourselves speak lies.

These examples are given only to make us realize our own condition, no doubt, many have no musical tones in their mobile phones. They do not have the habit of making abuses and speaking lies, but they have no mind-set to consider them bad in their hearts. If the thought of considering an evil as bad in the heart and the habit of being grieved are developed in reality for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a reformation will begin in the society. If we become strong in considering evils as bad, then we will start making people understand that as well. The blessed Sunnah will be practiced everywhere and the call towards righteousness will be propagated.

سُنّتوں کی کروں خوب خدمت ہر کسی کو دُوں نیکی کی دعوت

نیک میں بھی بنوں التجا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دُعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! 92 departments of Dawat-e-Islami are actively working for the propagation of calling towards righteousness. One of them, a very important department is Madani Channel, through which, the message of Dawat-e-Islami is reaching many homes. Prior to launching Madani Channel when there was this mind-set of removing the T.V from the houses of Muslims, it proved to be very difficult. Only one avenue remained. As an example, when the flow of a flood is turned away from destruction towards fields or crops then they are irrigated, thus saving the people from destruction, in exactly the same way, using the very same tool ‘T.V’ that has flooded every home, Madani Channel was introduced in order to awaken the Muslims from this flood of indecency and negligence and help save them from ignorance and sins.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! With the tireless efforts and struggle of the Markazi Majlis-e- Shura, Madani Channel started spreading the message of Dawat-e-Islami from door to door, starting in September 2008 Ramadan-ul-Mubarak 1429 Hijri and producing marvellous results. To what extent, Madani Channel achieved its objective can be estimated though the following attributes:

§ Aim of Madani Channel: Propagation of the pure message of Islam free from false beliefs.

§ Madani Channel being a standard bearer of protection of the pure Islamic faith & beliefs not only spread the message of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and love of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also continues its services in many other Islamic fields.

§ Madani Channel has succeeded in delivering the message to every corner of the globe in a most effective and convincing manner where access was a difficult task.

§ Madani Channel is the only channel where women are not displayed on the media. In this regard, Madani Channel is a 100% purely Islamic channel.

§ Madani Channel is the only channel which has no commercials.

§ Madani Channel is playing a vital role in helping cure the social diseases infecting the community with the invasion of vulgarity & obscenity prevalent on social media.

§ Rulings about beliefs, worship, and ethics, religious and social issues are broadcasted with great care and responsibility.

It is evident that the Muslims will remain safe from other sinful channels as long as they keep watching Madani Channel. By the grace of Almighty Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Channel has achieved success beyond our expectations. We are receiving thousands of messages of congratulations and encouragement daily, from around the world. Apart from congratulations, these messages have also revealed great positive changes taking place in the lives of many people as a result of watching our Madani Channel. Many have repented of sins, started offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnah. Some unbelievers are also reported to have embraced Islam by virtue of watching Madani Channel.

Dear Islamic brothers! You are also requested to keep watching Madani Channel. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will learn thousands of Sunan along with motivations to act upon them, you will have a mind-set to refrain from movies, dramas and songs etc., as well as acquire a deep yearning to immerse yourself in the love of the Noble Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

مدنی چینل کے سبب نیکی کی دعوت عام ہو

عام دُنیا بھر میں یا رَبّ دِین کا پیغام ہو

Dear Islamic brothers! When we find a Muslim submerged in sins, we should reform him upon noticing him violating and transgressing the Islamic Shari’ah, with the intention of the betterment of his Hereafter and if you feel that your admonition and advice may create any conflict then regard it offensive and disgusting in your heart whereas in our personal matters if something contrary to our nature occurs, we should show patience and forgiveness no matter how angry we get, we should restrain our tongues and hands and forgive for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because when the tongue gets out of control, it sometimes worsens the situation and messes up good work, it is for this reason that somebody has truly quoted:

ہے فَلاح و کامرانی نَرمی و آسانی میں ہر بنا کام بِگڑ جاتا ہے نادانی میں

Remember! If we give up taking revenge with good intentions from others over their wrongdoings, our society can become a place of peace and it will be purged from the disgusting elements like disruption, differences and disputes. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes tolerance and gentleness very much, certainly, whoever gets this great blessing, becomes the most fortunate person. Gentleness is the beauty of a human, being impolite all the time is out of etiquettes. A courteous and gentle person is loved by everyone whereas an indifferent and ill-tempered person is hated by everyone. Let’s listen to 4 blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to adopt gentleness and kindness:

1. ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰهَ رَفِيۡقٌ يُحِبُّ الرِّفۡقَ ’ Undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is kind and He loves kindness ‘ وَيُعۡطِي عَلَى الرِّفۡقِ مَا لَا يُعۡطِي عَلَى الۡعُنۡفِ ’ and confers upon kindness which He does not confer upon severity ‘ وَمَا لَا يُعۡطِي عَلَى مَا سِوَاهُ ’ and whatever He confers upon kindness, does not confer upon anything .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1398, Hadees 2593)

2‘ اِنَّ الرِّفۡقَ لَا يَكُونُ فِي شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا زَانَهُ ’ Anything that adds gentleness in it brings beauty ‘ وَلَا يُنۡزَعُ مِنۡ شَيۡءٍ اِلَّا شَانَهُ ’ and anything gentleness is withdrawn from, makes it defective . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1398, Hadees 2594)

1. ‘ مَنۡ يُحۡرَمُ الرِّفۡقَ يُحۡرَمُ الۡخَيۡرَ ’, i.e. One who is deprived of kindness, is deprived of every goodness. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1398, Hadees 2592)

2. ‘ مَنۡ اُعۡطِىَ حَظَّهُ مِنَ الرِّفۡقِ ’, i.e. One who is given a share out of kindness ‘ فَقَدۡ اُعۡطِىَ حَظَّهُ مِنۡ خَيۡرِ الدُّنۡيا وَالۡآخِرَةِ ’, is given a share out of the goodness of the world and the Hereafter both .

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 504, Raqm 25314)

بنا دو صبر و رِضا کا پیکر بنوں خُوش اَخلاق ایسا سرور

رہے سدا نرم ہی طبیعت نبیِّ رحمت شفیعِ اُمَّت

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! There are some foolish people who consider anger to be bravery, manliness, self-respect and great courage. People with such a mind-set should act upon the Beloved Prophet’s Sunnah of forbearance and gentleness because gentleness has countless advantages.

It is reported that a young man arrived in the court of the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly said, ‘O Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Permit me to commit adultery.’ The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم took this very harshly, and were enraged at his words but the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم forbade them from abusing him and said to him, ‘Come closer to me. Would you like anyone to commit adultery with your mother?’ He said, ‘Not at all.’ The Holiest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

said, ‘Then other people would never tolerate such a shameful act with their mothers.’ Then the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked him, ‘If the same act is done with your daughter. Will you like it?’ He humbly said, ‘No’. The Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘If anybody commits such a shameful act with your sister then? And if with your aunt then?’

In the same way, the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked about every relation and he kept refusing and people did not grant their consent either. Then the Noblest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم placed his blessed hand on his heart and supplicated to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Purify his heart, save his private parts and forgive his sins, after that incident, he had hatred towards adultery his whole life. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 285, Raqm 22274)

اِجابت نے جُھک کر گلے سے لگایا بڑھی ناز سے جب دُعائے مُحَمَّد

اِجابت کا سہرا عنایت کا جوڑا دُلہن بن کے نِکلی دُعائے مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard how lovingly and affectionately our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made individual efforts and reformed that young man in a most pleasant manner for preventing him from evils. Therefore, adopting an effective strategy one who presents the call towards righteousness, should show tolerance because the thing which can be done by being gentle cannot be done by losing the temper. As far as the preacher is concerned, he should be softer than wax and cooler than ice. To reform someone by scolding them is very difficult. If only we could also make efforts to help a person who is committing sins, being heedless of Salahs, committing the sins of speaking lies, backbiting, tale-telling, tormenting the heart of Muslims etc., to give up committing sins instead of criticizing him unnecessarily in his absence and by speaking ill of him, thereby committing the sins of backbiting! If only we could get the treasure of rewards of the Hereafter by making him understand with extreme gentleness and love! With sincere intentions if we advise somebody, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will receive its benefits.

Dear Islamic brothers! Listen to a few ways and treatments to have forbearance and giving up the bad habit of losing the temper and try to act upon them:

1. First of all, sincerely repent to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Because without the help of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, a person does not have the power to prevent himself from sins.

2. Read parables consisting of the virtues of forming the habit of forbearance and study the parables of the pious saints رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی .

3. Put fear in your Nafs from the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that the way I have power over this person, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has more power over me than this. If I get angry with him, then I will not be able to be safe from the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Day of Judgment.

4. Similarly, ponder over the medical disadvantages due to anger, that it has a bad effect on the health.

5. Repent abundantly as by its blessings اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will give up this habit and develop hatred (for evils).

Dear Islamic brothers! If we want to adopt these ways of forbearance, suppress the anger, adopt the habit of affection and kindness and become a person of good manners, we must associate ourselves with the Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by its blessings, we will attain countless worldly and religious blessings.

عمل کا ہو جذبہ عطا یا اِلٰہی گناہوں سے مج ھ کو بچا یا اِلٰہی

ہو اَخلاق اچھا ہو کِردار سُتھرا مجھے مُتّقی تُو بنا یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In todays’ Bayan we have heard amazing parables about the forbearance of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . No matter how deeply he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was troubled, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم never got angry for himself, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would even forgive his cruel enemies.

Therefore, instead of taking revenge we must follow in the footsteps of our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and also show tolerance by forgiving the person we are angry with. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to follow our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs by associating ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami to serve the Sunnah. The 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs are very helpful for inviting people towards righteousness and preventing them from evils. ‘Masjid Dars’ is one of the 12 Madani activities. We should attend a Masjid Dars regularly and where Dars is not delivered, arrange it while making individual efforts. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the blessings of this, it will reform others and ourselves as well and we shall attain the reward of learning Islamic knowledge through the Masjid Dars.

Sayyiduna Imam Jalaluddin Suyuti Shaafi’i عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has reported in Sharh-us-Sudoor: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed to Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام, ‘Learn goodness yourself and teach it to others; I shall illuminate the graves of those who learn goodness and teach it so that they do not become terrified.’ (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 6, pp. 5, Hadees 7622)

We should also attend the Masjid Dars and motivate others to do the same. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this will bring an abundance of virtues. Let’s listen to a parable about seeking the persuasion of Masjid Dars:

An Islamic brother living in Madina-tul-Awliya (blessed Multan) has stated a parable of his own reformation in these words: In 1995, I was a student of

FSC. Due to having no Islamic knowledge I developed friendship with a man of corrupt beliefs; I used to spent time, eat and drink with him. It is said that company has its effect, therefore, I also started falling prey to his corrupt beliefs. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant a long life to Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه who laid the foundation of Dawat-e-Islami and did a great favour to the Muslim Ummah, saving countless of people from these people of corrupt beliefs! Surely if the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami had not been there, the friendship of that corrupt person would have misled me. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed me and I got rid of that friend-like enemy.

It actually happened like this that the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat started in our Masjid. One day my father advised me to attend the Dars by saying that by the blessing of sitting in the Dars not only will a great treasure of information be obtained but the privilege of attaining the great excellence of sitting in a gathering of Islamic knowledge is also gained. I therefore began attending the Dars regularly. Certainly by the blessings of sitting in the Dars, I found the golden opportunity of collecting priceless pearls of Islamic knowledge. In addition to this, it brought such comfort to my heart and mind that I cannot express in words.

By the blessings of the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat, I attended the weekly Sunnah- inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami. It was a new environment for me and I was very impressed by the knowledge that I received and its practice which I found everywhere. The Heart-rending Bayan and highly motivating Du’a bringing about tears overturned the world of my heart; I sincerely repented of all my sins and associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I have also had the privilege of taking the Bay’at from Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I take this opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’

(Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to some Madani pearls about sneezing from the booklet named ‘ 101 Madani Pearls ’ written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه:

Madani pearls

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the sneeze and does not like the yawn.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2. When one sneezes and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, the angels say ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ and if he says, ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ the angels say, ‘ May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you’. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3. Lower your head, cover your face as you sneeze, and sneeze in a low voice as it is foolish to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

4. One should say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ after sneezing. It is better to say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ ’ or ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ (it is stated in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan on page 3 with reference to Tahtaavi that it is a Sunnat-e-Muakkadah to recite the Hamd of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after sneezing).

5.

1. It is Wajib for the one who hears to say ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’ (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you) immediately in such an audible voice that the one who sneezed can hear it. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 119)

2. Upon hearing ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’, the person who sneezed should say ‘ يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَيُصۡلِحُ بَالَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

3. Whoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ after sneezing and passes his tongue over all his teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will be safe from dental diseases.

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

4. Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘Whosoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ upon sneezing, he will never suffer from pain in the molars or earache.’ (Mirqat-ul Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499, Taht-al-Hadees 4739)

5. The one sneezing should utter ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ audibly so that it can be heard and answered. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

6. The reply [i.e. يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ] is Wajib [necessary ] on the first sneeze, if the one sneezing says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ on the second sneeze as well, it is not Wajib to reply rather it is Mustahab [desirable]. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

7. The reply is Wajib only when the one sneezing says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’; if he does not say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, there is no reply. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 120)

1. If there are many Islamic brothers present and some have replied then the reply will be fulfilled on behalf of everyone, however, it is better for everyone to reply. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

2. If one sneezes on the other side of the wall and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ then the one hearing it should reply. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

3. If someone sneezes during Salah, he should remain silent; but if he says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, it will not affect the Salah. If he does not say Hamd during the Salah, he can do so after completed the Salah.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 98)

4. If whilst you are offering Salah, someone sneezes and you recite ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ with the intention of replying to his sneeze, your Salah will become invalid. (Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 1, pp. 98)

5. If an unbeliever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ upon sneezing, one should reply ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكَ اللّٰهُ ’ (i.e. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you). (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-Inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

Click here to read

