اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Reciting Holy Quran

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ قَرأ الْقُرْآنَ و حَمِدَ الرّبَّ و صَلَّى عَلَى النَّبِي صَلَّى اللهُ عَلَيْهِ وسَلَّمَ و يَسْتَغْفِرُ رَبَّه فَقَدْ طَلَبَ الْخَيْر َمَكَانَه ’ Whoever recited the Holy Quran, praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, recited Salat upon the

Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and then asked forgiveness from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he has sought goodness from its source. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 373, Hadees 2084)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

4 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Millions of thanks be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has created us in the Ummah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and granted us a great blessing by revealing the Holy Quran to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestows 10 virtues for every letter upon every Muslim who recites the Holy Quran. Let’s listen to further virtues and blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran.

Blessing of Surah Yaseen

Imam Naasiruddin Basti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه once became very ill and fell into a coma. Presuming him to be dead, his close relatives gave him Ghusl [ritual bath] and Kafan [shrouded his body] and then they buried him. When he returned to consciousness in his grave at night, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was greatly surprised to find himself buried in the grave. In the state of worry, he recalled, ‘Whoever recites Surah Yaseen 40 times in trouble, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ removes his trouble and difficulties turn into easiness.’ Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started reciting Surah Yaseen. When he recited 39 times, a shroud thief began to dig open his grave with the intention to steal his shroud. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by his Divinely-bestowed insight, became aware that he was a shroud thief. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, therefore, started reciting in a very low voice 40 th time so that the thief could not listen to it. As he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his 40 th recitation, the shroud thief also dug open his grave completely. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of the grave. Due to the fear, the heart of the shroud thief failed and he died. Imam Naasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه thought that if he returned to the city immediately, people would be very worried and would get frightened. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to the city in the night and called out in front of every door of the street: I am Naasiruddin Basti. Seeing me in a coma you people thought I was dead by mistake and buried me, but I am alive. After that incident, Imam Naasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wrote exegesis of the Holy Quran. (Fawaaid-ul-Fawaad – translated, pp. 139)

فلموں سے ڈراموں سے دے نفرت تُو اِلٰہی

بس شوق مجھے نعت و تلاوت کا خُدا دے

Dear Islamic brothers! What great blessings the recitation of the Holy Quran has! When Imam Naasiruddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه returned to consciousness and

found himself buried, he started reciting Surah Yaseen in this state of worry and by virtue of its blessing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created means from the Ghayb [unseen] for his salvation and hence he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came out of his grave alive and safe. Surely, the Holy Quran is a very beautiful blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the Book of mercy and blessings which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has revealed to the blessed luminous heart of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for the guidance and success of His bondmen. It is sufficient for its greatness that it is Kalamullah (i.e., it is the beloved Kalam [Word] of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ). This blessed Book is absolutely perfect from every point of view. It was revealed by Rabb-ul-‘Aalameen [Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ], brought by Ruh-ul-Ameen [Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ] and the one to whom it was revealed is Rahmat-ul-lil-‘Aalameen [the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ]. The Ummah (nation) for whom this sacred Book was revealed is the best of all, the language in which it was revealed is Arabic, a clear language and the month in which it was revealed is the most sacred amongst all the months and the night in which it was revealed is the most superior night and the places where it was revealed are the most dignified places.

The Holy Quran is a Divine revelation. It is a source of attaining closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is the Divinely revealed book for the guidance and salvation of the entire creation, until the world exists. It is the summary of all revealed books. It is the collection of all branches of knowledge. It is a collection of guidance, a treasure of mercy and a source of blessings. It is such a code which if followed properly, all issues and problems can be solved. It is such a Noor [light] through which all the darkness of misguidance can be removed. It is such a path that directly leads to the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Paradise. It is such a system of reform and Tarbiyyat (learning) that makes a person ideal after purifying himself. It is such a tree that the one who sits under its shade feels inner peace. It is such a faithful companion that stands by us even in the grave and remains faithful to us even on the Judgement Day. It contains cure for sick hearts. The one who holds fast to it will be guided and the one who acts upon it will succeed in both worlds (i.e., in this world and in the Hereafter).

In Ayah 23 of Surah Az-Zumar, part 23, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in praise of the Holy Quran:

The Best Book

اَللّٰهُ نَزَّلَ اَحْسَنَ الْحَدِیْثِ كِتٰبًا مُّتَشَابِهًا مَّثَانِیَ ﳓ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Allah has sent down the best of Books (the Holy Quran), which is consistent throughout, the one with paired statements.’

Two conditions have been stated in Tafseer Khaazin for the Holy Quran to be the best Book [ اَحْسَنُ الْحَدِیث ]: (1) From word point of view (2) From meaning point of view:

1 The Holy Quran occupies the most superior position of eloquence from the word point of view. Neither is it from the kind of couplets of poetry nor is it in the style of public sermons and booklets, but rather it is a kind of Kalam that is different from everything in its manner i.e. writing style.

2 From the meaning point of view, nowhere is there any contradiction and difference in the Holy Quran. It contains pieces of news of the past, events of primitive people, abundant pieces of news of Ghayb [the unseen], promises and warnings, and the Bayan of Paradise and Hell. (Tafseer Khaazin, part 23, Az-Zumar, Taht-al-Ayah: 23, vol. 4, pp. 53)

It is stated in a blessed Hadees اَصْدَقُ الْحَدِیثِ کِتَابُ اللّٰہ i.e., the most truthful Kalam is the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 200, Hadees 4786)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: خَیْرُ الْحَدِیثِ کِتَابُ اللّٰہ i.e., the best Kalam is the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 430, Hadees 867)

Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami (Madani movement of devotees of Rasool), ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه implores humbly in the Blessed Court of Allah Almighty for propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran to Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and to Madani children.

ہر روز میں قرآن پڑھوں کاش خدایا!

الله! تلاوت میں مرے دل کو لگا دے

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, Mufti Ahmad Yar Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned: Hadees categorically means a ‘talk’ and Kalam [speech], therefore, according to this meaning, the Holy Quran is a Hadees and Kalam of the people is also Hadees, but in (Hadees) terminology, only the blessed sayings and actions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are called ‘Hadees’. Here it is in literal meaning. The Kalam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is superior to all other Kalams as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself is to His creation.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 1, pp. 146)

Dear Islamic brothers! You have just heard the virtues and marvels of the Holy Quran. Surely the glory and greatness of the Holy Quran cannot be judged. Its recitation is worship, listening to it is worship, touching it is worship even looking at it is also worship. This sacred Kalam is full of mercy and blessings. Let’s, first of all, listen to the excellence of those who love this sacred Book.

Way of recognising love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abdullah Bin Mas’ood رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The one who likes to know whether he loves Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should see that if he loves the Holy Quran (i.e., he recites it and acts upon it [1] so he also loves Allah Kareem and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, Hadees 8657)

Sayyiduna Sahl Bin Abdullah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The sign of having love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is having love for the Holy Quran, the sign of having love for the Holy Quran is having love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the sign of having love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is having love for the Sunnah [i.e. loving his Ahadees, traditions and life style etc.], the sign of having love for Sunnah is having love for the Hereafter, the sign of having

love for the Hereafter is having hatred towards (the sensual attractions of) this world and the sign of having hatred towards this world is taking it as per need and such a quantity be taken that leads to the Hereafter. (Ash-Shifa, pp. 28)

It is stated in Jami’-ul-Uloom wal-Hikam: Nothing is sweeter and more pleasurable than the Kalam [speech] of the beloved in the sight of lovers. The Kalam [speech] of the beloved brings about pleasure to their hearts and this is the utmost point of their aim. (Jami-ul-‘Uloom wal-Hikam, pp. 482)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how important it is to have love for the Holy Quran! Love for the Holy Quran is being declared to be the sign of love for Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the sign of love for the Holy Quran is also acting upon it along with its recitation. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ In order to recite the Holy Quran daily and develop its love in the heart, Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in Madani In’amaat # 21 out of 72 Madani In’amaat: ‘Today, have you been privileged to recite or listen to at least three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman (with translation and commentary)?’

So we too should form the habit of reciting the Holy Quran daily with its translation and commentary with undivided attention from blessed Kanz-ul-Iman along with Tafseer Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan or Siraat-ul-Jinaan . In this way, besides acting upon the Madani In’aam, we will also attain abundant goodness and blessings of recitation and will also develop the passion for acting upon it. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, the people who love the Holy Quran and also act upon it besides reciting it are very fortunate, but unfortunately, there are a large number of people in our society who are very far away from the Holy Quran and do not recite it even after many months. That is why today we are facing different types of problems. We are seriously facing the issues of strained relations, discords and unemployment. Almost every one of us has the Holy Quran at our homes and it is also a great privilege, but

unfortunately we have forgot after placing it in our homes and do not even open it, though there is great excellence of reciting the Holy Quran at homes.

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: The home, in which Quran is recited, becomes full of blessings for its dwellers; its goodness is abundant; angels visit it and devils go away from it. The home, in which Quran is not recited, becomes confined to its dwellers; its goodness is reduced; angels go away from it and devils enter it. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom – translated, vol. 1, pp. 826)

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: You continue to have relation with Quran; recite it regularly; hence by the One in Whose possession my soul is! Surely Quran runs away (is forgotten) faster than the camels which are tethered [tied to a post] with their ropes.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 412, Hadees 5033)

Therefore, my dear Islamic brothers! Become true devotees of the Holy Quran, pay true attention to it, form a habit of reciting it daily then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will also have its bounties and blessings. Your worries will also be removed from your homes and there will be blessing in your sustenance and اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all the matters will become easy and will start getting resolved.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to something about the greatness and excellence of the recitation of the Holy Quran so that we can also develop the importance of the Holy Quran and desire to recite it daily in our hearts. In Ayah 29 of Surah Al-Faatir, part 22, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّ الَّذِیْنَ یَتْلُوْنَ كِتٰبَ اللّٰهِ وَ اَقَامُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اَنْفَقُوْا مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ سِرًّا وَّ عَلَانِیَةً یَّرْجُوْنَ تِجَارَةً لَّنْ تَبُوْرَۙ(۲۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Indeed those who read the Book of Allah, and keep the prayer established, and spend from what We have bestowed upon them in secret and publicly, are hopeful of a trade in which there is never a loss.’

Regarding this blessed Ayah it is stated in Tafseer-e-Baghawi: تِجَارَۃً means the reward Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has promised; there is no loss at all, that is, this reward will neither be invalid nor be wasted. (Tafseer-e-Baghawi, vol. 3, pp. 492) It is as if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is giving good news of great reward to the reciters of the Holy Quran.

At another place, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in this manner in praise of the reciters of the Holy Quran:

اَلَّذِیْنَ اٰتَیْنٰهُمُ الْكِتٰبَ یَتْلُوْنَهٗ حَقَّ تِلَاوَتِهٖؕ-اُولٰٓىٕكَ یُؤْمِنُوْنَ بِهٖؕ-وَ مَنْ یَّكْفُرْ بِهٖ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ هُمُ الْخٰسِرُوْنَ۠(۱۲۱) Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Those to whom We have given the Book, read it in the manner it should be read; it is they who believe in it; and those who deny it, they are the losers.’ (Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 121)

Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: In this Ayah اُولٰٓئِکَ یُؤۡمِنُوۡنَ بِہٖ ؕ i.e., ‘it is they who believe’ refers to the blessed companions of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who believed in the Ayahs of Allah Kareem and attested to them. (Tafseer Durr-e-Mansoor, pp. 273)

It has become obvious that the recitation of the Holy Quran is the part and quality of believers. Regarding this Ayah, it is stated on page 200 of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 1, a great and easy commentary, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah:

Rights of Holy Quran

It has also been learnt that there are many rights of the Book of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The right of the Holy Quran is that it should be revered, it should be loved, it

should be recited, it should be understood, it should be believed in, it should be acted upon and it should be conveyed to others.

Similarly, countless virtues of the Holy Quran have been mentioned in blessed Ahadees. Let’s listen to 4 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

٭ Recite the Holy Quran as it will come to intercede for its reciters on the Judgement Day. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 403, Hadees 804)

٭ It is a Hadees-e-Qudsi that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated: ‘The one who is prevented by the recitation of the Holy Quran from asking from Me and begging Me, I will grant him better reward than the reward of those who are thankful.

٭ Three types of people will be on the mounds of dark musk [a type of fragrance]. They will not feel any kind of nervousness, nor will they be asked for accountability until people get finished with their accountability. (One of them) is the person who recites the Holy Quran for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and leads the Salah of people who are happy with him. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 348, Hadees 2002)

٭ People of the Holy Quran (i.e., those who recite it and act upon its commandments) (Ithaf-us-Sadah, vol. 5, pp. 13) are Allah-loving ones and His special people. (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 1, pp. 140, Hadees 215)

الله! مجھے حافظِ قرآن بنا دے

قرآن کے اَحکام پہ بھی مجھ کو چلا دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how great the blessings of the recitation of the Holy Quran are! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is praising such people. Moreover, abundant virtues have also been mentioned for them in blessed Ahadees.

The reciters of the Holy Quran have been declared to be the special bondsmen of Allah Almighty. Further, the person who recites the Holy Quran for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will neither feel any kind of nervousness nor will be asked for accountability on the Judgement Day. Just ponder! How great deprival it is to not recite the Holy Quran despite so many blessings and favours!

On the other hand, our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی had such a great yearning for reciting the Holy Quran that they would deeply ponder over each blessed Ayah and would recite the Holy Quran with extreme pleasure and delight. One pious person رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی has stated: I start one Surah and observe such a thing in it that I remain standing until the morning, but the Surah does not get completed. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 852)

It is narrated about another pious person رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who has stated: I do not consider the blessed Ayah, which I recite without understanding and attention, to be a source of reward. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 852)

Sayyiduna Sulayman Daarani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When I recite an Ayah of the Holy Quran, I spend four or five nights pondering over it. If I do not stop myself pondering over it, I do not get time for the next Ayah.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 852)

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ would recite the Holy Quran so abundantly that 2 copies of the Holy Quran were worn-out due to it. Many blessed companions would recite the Holy Quran by looking at it and they did not like to pass a single day without seeing the Holy Quran.

(Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp. 843)

O Allah Kareem عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For the sake of devotees of the Holy Quran, make us devotees of the Holy Quran! May we find no peace without seeing and reciting the Holy Quran!

اٰمِــيْن بِـجَـاهِ الـنَّـبِـیِّ الْاَمِــيْن صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Recitation of the Holy Quran is the best worship. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ اَفْضَلُ عِبَادَۃِ اُمَّتِیْ قِراءَۃُ الْقُرْاٰنِ ’ i.e., the best form of worship of my Ummah is the recitation of the Holy Quran. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, Hadees 2022)

So we should not avoid reciting it. Surely, wise is he who is busy collecting more and more virtuous deeds in this world, therefore, make an intention to recite the Holy Quran regularly without missing a single day in future, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Dear Islamic brothers! For propagating Quranic education, only desire is not sufficient, but rather we should make efforts practically to propagate the teachings of the Holy Quran. Dawat-e-Islami is propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of the blessing of the Tarbiyyat by Ameer e Ahl-e-Sunnat, Dawat-e-Islami is leaving no stone unturned to convey the teachings of the Holy Quran and Hifz-o-Naazirah in the countries, cities, villages and every street and location. You also help Dawat-e-Islami in these efforts. How can you help? Listen! Get Madrasahs built for Dawat-e-Islami from your Halal earnings so that [the Islamic brothers/sisters of] Dawat-e-Islami can teach the Holy Quran to your Madani children [boys and girls]. Fix some amount of money from your salary and income in order to propagate the teachings of the Holy Quran. If you want, you can take the responsibility of paying the expenses of any Madrasa-tul-Madinah or the salary of any Mudarris (teacher). You can also include others in this virtuous deed. If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Wills, you will get abundant reward for propagating the teachings of the Holy Quran. If you have not learnt to recite the Holy Quran, you too should attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic brothers] of Dawat-e-Islami which are usually set up for 41 minutes. There are Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic sisters] in which Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters the Holy Quran free of charge at homes.

یہی ہے آرزُو تعلیمِ قرآں عام ہو جائے

تلاوت کرنا صُبح و شام میرا کام ہو جائے

Importance of individual efforts

Dear Islamic brothers! Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us a Madani aim that ‘ I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ We should act upon Madani In’amaat for reforming ourselves and travel regularly with Madani Qafilahs for reforming the people of the entire world. Similarly, we should start making individual efforts to make Muslims righteous, Salah-offering, make them habitual of following Sunnah and keep them away from sins. Apart from Madani Qafilahs whenever we meet an Islamic brother, we should make individual efforts in an affectionate and loving manner. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will get its abundant blessings.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The persuasion of making individual efforts is included in our Madani In’amaat, as stated in Madani In’aam # 22: Have you persuaded at least two Islamic brothers by making individual efforts to travel with a Madani Qafilah and act upon Madani In’amaat?

It is stated in Madani In’aam #52: Right after the Ijtima’ this week, did you come forward for putting the individual effort on new Islamic brothers, noting down their names, address and contact numbers? (Meet at least four such Islamic brothers and take the contact number of at least one of them. Also stay in touch with them thereafter.)

Surely, fortunate Islamic brothers are the ones who make individual efforts while travelling with Madani Qafilah, delivering Bayan, making Madani visits, having Madani Mashwarah in the surrounding villages/towns/cities and taking part in 12 Madani activities in their Halqah and area etc. By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts the number of Islamic brothers, who offer Salah with Jama’at, increases. By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts the number of Islamic brothers, who attend the Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat and Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah, increases. By virtue of the blessing of individual efforts, Islamic brothers can be persuaded to travel with Madani Qafilahs for learning Sunnah. Individual effort helps to fill Masajid with Salah-offering people. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of an individual effort for persuasion:

Individual effort on driver

While passing by the place where buses, which pick Islamic brothers up from different areas for the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, stand and wait for the return of Islamic brothers, an Islamic brother saw that songs were being played in an empty bus and its driver was smoking marijuana in it. He met the driver with great affection. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the blessings of the meeting appeared immediately and the driver stopped playing the songs himself and put out the cigarette containing marijuana as well. The Islamic brother presented smilingly a cassette of Bayan namely, ‘ First Night of Grave ’ to the driver. He inserted the cassette immediately into the tape recorder. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the cassette exerted a great effect on him and he repented of his sins after being frightened and by virtue of the blessing of the ‘individual effort’ he came out of the bus and sat with that Islamic brother in the Ijtima’.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Quran is the best cure

Dear Islamic brothers! Whoever recites the Holy Quran daily in the morning and evening not only collects abundant reward, but by its blessings he also gets cured of inner (spiritual) and outer (physical) diseases. Once a person made a complaint of his sore throat to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘Start reciting the Holy Quran.’ A man came and humbly said: I have got a chest pain. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘Recite Holy Quran. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: ‘ وَ شِفَآءٌ لِّمَا فِی الصُّدُوْرِ ’ Translation from Kanz-ul-‘Irfan: ‘ And cure for the hearts .’ (Durr-e-Mansur, vol. 4, pp. 366) or rather the Holy Quran is also the best cure for various illnesses. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: خَیْرُ الدَّوَاءِ اَلْقُرْاٰنُ i.e., ‘The best cure is the Holy Quran.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah: Hadees 3501)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, ‘Allamah ‘Abdur Ra`oof Manaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written: i.e., the best Ta’weez (amulet) is that which is done through any Quranic Ayah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ نُنَزِّلُ مِنَ الْقُرْاٰنِ مَا هُوَ شِفَآءٌ وَّ رَحْمَةٌ لِّلْمُؤْمِنِیْنَۙ-وَ لَا یَزِیْدُ الظّٰلِمِیْنَ اِلَّا خَسَارًا(۸۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We send down in the Quran that which is a cure and mercy for the believers, and only loss increases for the unjust because of it. (Part 15, Surah Bani Israel, Ayah 82)

So the Holy Quran is the cure for the body, heart and soul in fact for all. When some Kalams have qualities and benefits what do you think about the Kalam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that is superior to all other Kalams as Allah Almighty is superior to His creation? There are some such Ayahs in the Holy Quran which are for eradicating some specific diseases and troubles, but only specific people attain the Ma’rifat [Divine insight] into these Ayahs.

(Fayz-ul-Qadeer, vol. 3, pp. 628)

Dear Islamic brothers! The whole Holy Quran is a cure for diseases and saves from troubles and difficulties. Every Surah of the Holy Quran has its own excellence and glory that is sufficient to protect life and possession, give pleasure [to the heart] by removing sorrow and grief and eliminate the disease. Let’s listen to the brief virtues of some blessed Surahs of the Holy Quran mentioned in the 679-page book ‘ Jannati Zaywar ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah:

٭ Any Du’a that is made after reciting Surah Al-Fati h ah 100 times will be answered .

٭ Satan flees from the home by virtue of reciting Surah Al-Baqarah.

٭ Recitation of Ayat-ul-Kursi removes poverty.

٭ Whoever always recites Surah Kahf will stay safe from the Fitnahs [mischiefs] of Dajjaal.

٭ By virtue of reciting Surah Yaseen at the graves of parents every Friday the sins of parents equal to the number of its letters are forgiven.

٭ Recitation of Surah Ad-Dukhan removes difficulty.

٭ If the Dam (i.e. blowing after reciting) of Surah Al-Jaasiyah is made upon the one who is dying, he will die in goodness.

٭ Reciting Surah Al-Hujurat and drinking the water on which its Dam has been made are beneficial for goodness and blessings in the home.

٭ Recitation of Surah Qaaf brings about abundance of fruits in the orchard.

٭ All aims are achieved by reciting Surah Ar-Rahman 11 times .

٭ The one who recites Surah Al-Waaqi’ah daily will never suffer from starvation.

٭ The one who recites Surah Al-Mulk every night will stay safe from the torment of the grave.

٭ Reciting Surah Al-Muzzammil 11 times eases every difficulty.

٭ Making Du’a for memorising the Holy Quran after reciting Surah Al-Muddassir makes it easy to memorize the Holy Quran.

٭ By reciting Surah An-Nazi’aat one will not have the agony of death.

٭ By virtue of reciting Surah Ad-Duha the person, who has run away, will return.

٭ The possession on which Surah Alam-Nashrah is recited will have abundant blessings.

٭ Recitation of Surah At-Teen 3 times improves manners and character.

٭ Surah Alaq has the cure of joint pain.

٭ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will increase the respect of the one who recites Surah Al-Qadr in the morning and evening.

٭ Surah Al-Bayyinah has the cure for leukoderma and jaundice.

٭ Surah Az-Zilzaal is equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran.

٭ Dam of Surah Al-‘Aadiyaat is useful for the animal or man who has become the victim of the evil eye.

٭ Recitation of Surah Al-Qaari’ah protects from calamities.

٭ Debt is paid off very soon by reciting Surah At-Takasur 300 times.

٭ Sorrow is removed by reciting Surah Al-‘Asr.

٭ Surah Al-Humazah and Surah Al-Feel protect from the evils of the enemy.

٭ Surah Quraysh has been proved for the protection/safety of life.

٭ Recitation of Surah Al-Maa’oon is very effective in great difficulty.

٭ By reciting Surah Al-Kawsar a childless couple becomes a couple with children.

٭ Surah Al-Kafiroon is equal to one-fourth of the Holy Quran.

٭ Surah Al-Ikhlas is equal to one-third of the Holy Quran and it has many virtues.

٭ Surah Al-Falaq and Surah An-Naas protect a person from Jinn, Satan and the evils of jealous people. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 588)

May we be blessed with the passion for reciting the Holy Quran! Let’s include ourselves in the Du’a made by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat:

تلاوت کا جذبہ عطا کر الٰہی معاف فرما میری خطا ہر الٰہی

تلاوت کروں ہر گھڑی یا الٰہی بکوں نہ کبھی بھی میں واہی تباہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Buy a very beautiful book of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه namely, ‘Madani Treasure of Blessings’ from Maktaba-tul-Madinah and study in order to know something about the virtues of different Surahs of the Holy Quran and get further information about them. This book should be in every home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it contains famous Quranic Surahs, Duroods and spiritual treatments along

with countless fragrant Madani pearls. It can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

Learn Holy Quran with correct pronunciation!

Dear Islamic brothers! In Ayah 4 of Surah Al-Muzzammil, part 29, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ رَتِّلِ الْقُرْاٰنَ تَرْتِیْلًاؕ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And recite the Quran delightfully in slow distinct stages [1] .

About this blessed Ayah it is mentioned on page 413 of Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan, volume 10: It means that one should recite the Holy Quran with calmness in a way that every letter should be pronounced clearly. He should take special care of the places where Waqf has to be performed and the pronunciation of Harakaat [diacritical marks]. Having said ‘ تَرْتِیْلًاؕ ’ at the end of the blessed Ayah it has been emphasized that for the reciter of the Holy Quran it is extremely necessary to recite the Holy Quran with Tarteel [clearly and distinctly]. (Al-Madarik, Al-Muzzammil, Taht-al-Ayah: 4, pp. 1292)

Remember! The reciter of the Holy Quran will receive Divine blessing if he knows how to recite the Holy Quran correctly. People, in our society, do not avoid paying high fees for gaining modern worldly education, doing English language, computer and different other courses etc., but unfortunately, due to lack of Islamic knowledge, they have no time to learn the Holy Quran free of charge with correct pronunciation. Remember! The people who do not know how to recite the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation commit sins instead of earning reward.

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: ‘Many reciters of Quran are such that (due to reciting incorrectly) the Holy Quran curses them.’ (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, pp: 364)

A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: [Learning] recitation of the Holy Qur'an with correct pronunciation to such an extent that every letter should be clearly distinct from the other letter is obligatory for every individual. Without it Salah is definitely invalid. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 3, pp. 253)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said: ‘Undoubtedly recitation of the Holy Quran with correction pronunciation to the extent that the reciter can pronounce the letters with correct pronunciation/places of articulation according to the rules of correct pronunciation and can refrain from reciting them incorrectly is obligatory for every individual.’ (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 6, pp. 343)

Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: It is Wajib for the one who cannot pronounce letters correctly to make every effort in pronouncing them correctly day and night. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 570)

Dear Islamic brothers! If we also want to recite the Holy Quran with correct rules and pronunciation/places of articulation and we should, we must attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic brothers]. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic brothers)’ are usually set up at different places and in Masajid etc., after ‘Isha Salah in which elder Islamic brothers learn the Holy Quran with correct places of articulation and correct pronunciation of letters and memorize Du’as, correct their Salahs and receive the education of Sunnah free of charge. Besides that thousands of Madaris by the name of Madrasa-tul-Madinah (for Islamic sisters) are also conducted almost daily in homes in different countries of the world in which Islamic sisters receive education of the Holy Quran, Salah and Sunnah free of charge and also memorize Du’as.

How great the virtues of the education of the Holy Quran are! Listen to the two sayings of The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, from page 484, volume 3 of 1197-page book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, a publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami:

1 The best person amongst you is the one who learns the Holy Quran and teaches [it to others]. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 5027)

2 One who is expert in reciting the Holy Quran is with Kiraman Katibeen and for the one who falters in it, and finds it hard [i.e., he cannot pronounce easily, pronounce with difficulty], there are two rewards.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 400, Hadees 798)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to attend Madrasa-tul-Madinah [for Islamic brothers] to learn the Holy Quran with correct pronunciation!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We can get the blessings of the Holy Quran in the true sense when we recite it also keeping in view its manners. If we do not take care of the manners, we will neither get its benefits nor its blessings, but rather in some situations we can commit sins. Let’s listen to some manners of reciting the Holy Quran so that we can attain its blessings by reciting it in a proper way.

1 Amir -ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ used to kiss the Holy Quran in the morning every day, and would say, ‘This is the covenant of my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and His Book.’ (Durr-e-Mukhtar, vol. 9, pp. 634)

2 It is Mustahab to recite Ta’awwuz ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰه ’ when beginning Tilawat, and it is Sunnah to recite Tasmiyah ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the start of a Surah, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

3 It is Musta h ab to perform Tilawat in the state of Wudu, facing the Qiblah, and whilst wearing good garment. (Ibid, pp. 550)

4 Reciting the Holy Quran by looking at it is Afzal (superior) to reciting it by heart, because this not only involves reciting the Holy Quran, but it also includes the acts of looking at the Holy Quran and touching it, and all these are acts of worship. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 495)

5 The Holy Quran should be recited in an exceedingly elegant voice, and if somebody does not possess a pleasant voice, he should try to beautify his voice when reciting. But it is impermissible to recite in such a melodious tone which causes to miss or add letters, like the way singers do. This is impermissible, take utmost care in upholding the rules and regulations of recitation [Tajweed].

(Durr-e-Mukhtar, Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 694)

6 It is Afzal (superior) to recite the Holy Quran in an audible voice, as long as it doesn’t cause trouble to Namazis (Salah-performing individuals) or anybody who is ill or anybody who is asleep. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 497)

7 When the Holy Quran is recited aloud, it is Far d on all attendees to listen to it provided they have congregated for the purpose of listening. Otherwise, it is sufficient even if one of them listens, though others are busy carrying out their activities. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 23, pp. 353)

8 It is Haraam for everybody in a gathering to recite aloud. In gatherings of Isal-e-Sawab, usually everybody recites aloud. This is Haraam [strictly forbidden]. If there are few people for recitation, the ruling for them is to recite quietly. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 2, pp. 552)

9 It is impermissible to recite the Holy Quran aloud in the marketplace, or anywhere where people are busy doing their activities. If people would not listen to it, the reciter will be a sinner. If he has started recitation before people get busy in their activities and that place is also not used for work and people do not listen to it either then people will be the sinners whereas if the reciter starts reciting after they get busy in their activities then he will be a sinner. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 497)

10 There is no harm in reciting the Holy Quran whilst lying down, as long as the legs are folded up [i.e. not stretched out] and the face is not covered

by any piece of cloth, etc. Additionally, it is also permissible to perform Tilawat whilst walking or working, provided attention of the heart is not distracted; otherwise it would be Makruh [disliked]. (ibid, pp. 496)

11 It is impermissible to recite the Holy Quran in the bathroom or in the places of impurity. (ibid)

12 Listening to the recitation of the Holy Quran is better than reciting the Holy Quran or offering Nafl Salah [supererogatory prayers]. (ibid, pp. 497)

13 If somebody recites incorrectly, it is Wajib for the listener to correct him, provided that it does not create grudge and jealousy. (ibid, pp. 498)

14 Recite the Holy Quran with Tarteel (slowly and distinctly), this is the Mustahab way.

15 During recitation, if someone feels laziness and weakness, it is better for him to stop recitation for some time so that he could start recitation again actively and comfortably.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Keep reciting the Holy Quran as long as you remain attentive; then, when you start getting inattentive, stop recitation. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 3, pp. 419, Hadees 5060)

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to learn more etiquette of reciting the holy Quran, read the booklet, ‘Virtues of reciting the Holy Quran’, authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Different departments of Dawat-e-Islami for disseminating the teachings of the Holy Quran

1 Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Baneen

2 Madrasa-tul-Madinah Juz-Waqti

3 Madrasa-tul-Madinah Rihaishi

4 Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat

5 Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan

6 Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat

7 Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Baneen Online

8 Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat Online

Madani children, living in Pakistan and abroad, are provided with the education of Quran Hifz-o-Naazirah in Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Baneen. Those children who go to school are provided with the education of Quran Pak for one or two hours in ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Juz-Waqti’ after their school study. Students are provided with accommodation in ‘Madrasa-tul-Madinah Rihaishi’ where they acquire the education of Quran Hifz-o-Naazirah. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat, Qaariyah Islamic sisters provide the Madani female children with the education of Quran Hifz-o-Naazirah free of cost. Duration of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan is only 41 minutes, in which, Islamic brothers are taught Quran with correct articulation as well as they learn Salah and Sunnah, and memorise Du’as. In Madrasa-tul-Madinah Balighat, Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters the Holy Quran, Salah, Du’as and their specific rulings etc., collectively at homes free of cost.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Baneen online, the Qaari Sahiban, via internet, teach Madani children (boys) and adult Islamic brothers recitation of Quran Pak, Sunnah and make them memorise Du’as.

In Madrasa-tul-Madinah lil-Banaat online, Islamic sisters, via internet, teach Islamic sisters Quran with correct articulation and give them Tarbiyyat according to Sunnah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ students from more or less 86 countries have been acquiring education of the Holy Quran.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! At present, there are approximately 2761 Madrasa-tul-Madinah (lil-Baneen and lil-Banaat) in Pakistan and abroad in which approximately 128413 Madani children are being provided with Hifz-o-Naazirah education free of cost.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Rabitah bil-‘Ulama wal-Mashaaikh

As a result of deep affection of the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, Sheikh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, ‘Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, with Sunni scholars and Mashaaikh, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool established a department namely ‘Majlis Rabitah bil-‘Ulama wal-Mashaaikh’ so that, through this Majlis, the Sunni scholars and great Mashaaikh (Aimmah Masajid, Khutaba, Mudarriseen) are informed about the Islamic services being rendered by Dawat-e-Islami. After building up a healthy relationship, they should be associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Islamic brothers should get their help in Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami. Moreover, they should receive their Du’as as well as Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami should be initiated in the Sunni Madaris and Jami’aat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 55, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunnahs and manners of travelling

٭ If possible, journey should be started on Thursday, because it is Sunnah to start a journey on Thursday. (Ashi’a-tul-Lam’aat, vol. 5, pp. 161)

٭ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said to Sayyiduna Jubayr Bin Mut’am رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ: O Jubayr! Do you want to be better amongst your companions and exceed them in having the provisions for the journey when you embark on journey? (Meaning, you attain prosperity and become free from care and worries during the journey.) He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم said, recite these five Surahs: (1) Surah Al-Kafiroon till the end (2) Surah An-Nasr till the end (3) Surah Al-Ikhlas till the end (4) Surah Al-Falaq till the end (5) Surah An-Naas till the end.

Recite every Surah with ﴿ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحۡـمٰنِ الرَّحِيۡمِ ﴾ and complete it with ﴿ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ﴾ . (In this way, ﴿ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ﴾ will be recited 6 times with these 5 Surahs.) Sayyiduna Jubayr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ said: I started reciting them [those Surahs] and I began to remain the most prosperous and free from the care and worries of the provisions of the journey amongst all my travelling companions throughout my journey.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 314, Hadees 1745)

Announcement

Rest of the important Madani pearls in relation to ‘ Sunnahs and manners of travelling ’ will be mentioned in the learning sessions. Therefore, in order to learn these Madani pearls, do participate in these learning sessions.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 05 July 2018

1 Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2 Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3 Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4 Total duration: 15 minutes

Sunnahs and manners of travelling

٭ If it is convenient, travel in the night because distance at night is covered quicker as Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ narrated, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِـهٖ وَسَـلَّم has stated, ‘Travel at night, as the earth is folded at night.’ (Sunan Abi Dawood, vol. 3, pp. 40, Hadees 2571)

٭ It is Sunnah to say ﴿ اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ ﴾ when going up the stairs, walking upwards or our bus etc. is passing through such a street that goes upwards. Moreover, it is Sunnah to say ﴿ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰهِ ﴾ when coming down the stairs, or walking downwards. Sayyiduna Jabir رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُ narrated: We would say (اَللّٰهُ اَكۡبَرُ) when climbing upwards, and we would say ﴿ سُبۡحٰنَ اللّٰهِ ﴾ when coming downwards. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 307, Hadees 2994)

٭ When you get off at destination, recite the following Du’a from time to time, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be safe from every loss:

اَعُوْذُ بِکَلِمَاتِ اللّٰہِ التَّآمَّاتِ مِنْ شَرِّ مَا خَلَقَ

Translation: I seek refuge in the perfect words of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from the evil that is created by Him. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 6, pp. 301, Hadees 17508)

٭ When [you are] scared of an enemy, recite Surah Lee-Aeelaaf [Quraysh]. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will be safeguarded from every evil. (Al-Hasan Al-Haseen, pp. 80)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a made at the time of drinking Zamzam water

In the Madani Halqahs of the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami today, the ‘ Du’a made at the time of drinking Zamzam water ’ will be taught. The Du’a is as follows:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اَسْئَلُكَ عِلْمًا نَّافِعًا وَّ رِزْقًا وَّ اسِعًا وَّ شِفَآءً مِّنْ کُلِّ دَآءٍ

Translation: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I beg You for beneficial knowledge, vast sustenance and cure for every disease.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1 To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self-accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2 I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3 I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5 I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6 I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7 I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8 I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9 I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1 Made good intentions?

2 Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3 Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4 Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5 Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6 Paid Salam to Muslims?

7 Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8 Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9 Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10 Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11 Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12 Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13 Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14 Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15 Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16 Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17 Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18 Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19 Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20 Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21 Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22 Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23 Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24 Obeyed your Nigran?

25 Refrained from using things asking from others?

26 In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27 Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28 Controlled your anger?

29 Refrained from useless questions?

30 Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31 Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32 Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33 Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34 Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35 Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36 Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37 Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38 Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39 Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40 Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41 Paid back the loan on time?

42 Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43 Kept unified relations?

44 Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45 Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46 While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47 Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48 Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49 Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50 Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1 Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2 Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3 Inquired after an ill person?

4 Took part in Madani Daurah?

5 Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6 Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7 Sent a letter?

8 Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

