اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

A’la Hadrat’s Devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَا جَلَسَ قَوْمٌ مَجْلِسًا لَمْ يَذْكُرُوا اللَّهَ فِيهِ، وَلَمْ يُصَلُّوا عَلَى نَبِيِّهِمْ اِلَّا كَانَ عَلَيْهِمْ تِرَةً فَاِنْ شَاءَ عَذَّبَهُمْ وَاِنْ شَاءَ غَفَرَ لَهُم ’ Those people who sit in a gathering in which they neither do the Zikr of

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ nor recite Salat upon the [Beloved] Nabi (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) will feel remorse over such gathering (on the Day of Judgement). So, if Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Wills, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will punish them and if He Wills, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive them. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 247, Hadees 3391)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The blessed month of Safar-ul-Muzaffar is showering its blessings upon us. This is the blessed month that has a special affiliation with the great leader of Ahl-us-Sunnah, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, revivalist of the Ummah, A’la Hadrat, Al-Haafiz, Al-Haaj, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Allah Almighty blessed A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with various virtues and excellence. Out of them, his most prominent attribute is his devotion towards the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In this relation, let’s listen to some faith-refreshing aspects of his Seerah and some Madani pearls.

A’la Hadrat’s Devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

When A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to perform Hajj for the second time, he kept reciting Salat and Salam in front of the sacred shrine for a long time with the desire of beholding the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ; but the first night, he was not predestined to be blessed with this great privilege. On this occasion, he wrote a famous Na’at. In the opening couplet of it, he expressed the hope of attachment to the Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

وہ سُوئے لالہ زار پھرتے ہیں

تیرے دن اے بہار پھرتے ہیں

Explanation of the couplet: Get bloomed O Spring. The spring of springs is about to be bestowed on you. Look! The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is coming towards the garden.

In the closing couplet, he expressed his humbleness and humility in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the following manner:

کوئی کیوں پوچھے تیری بات رضاؔ

تجھ سے شَیْدا ہزار پھرتے ہیں

In the second line of the above couplet, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used the word ‘dog’ for himself out of humility. However, out of reverence, the word ‘Shayda’ [i.e. one who has deep devotion] has been written here.

Explanation of the couplet: Expressing extreme humility, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه addresses himself and says in this last couplet: ‘O Ahmad Raza! Who are you and what is your worth? Thousands of dogs of Madinah like you are roaming devotionally in the streets of Madinah.’

Having presented this Na’at, while he was sitting with deep reverence waiting to behold the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his fortune smiled as he was blessed with beholding the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the state of wakefulness. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 92)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know that the love for Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was the most precious asset of A’la Hadrat’s رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه life and his entire life revolved around the Zikr of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه kept igniting the love for Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the hearts of Muslims by writing Na’ats in the praise of his Beloved Master صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all his life, and guarded the honour and dignity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through his tongue and pen. The reason because of he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a truly devoted devotee of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, hence the yearning for going to the city of the beloved master kept increasing in his heart. And when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was blessed with the privilege of visiting the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه presented couplets full of devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in that blessed court. The emotional couplets full of devotion attained the rank of acceptance. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم privileged Ala Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to behold his blessed sight by blessing A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with his mercy, thus accepting A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه as a true devotee.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

What is ‘Ishq [passionate love] and Mahabbat [affection]?

While mentioning the definition of mahabbat [affection], Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه states: Someone getting inclined towards something charming is called ‘mahabbat [affection]’; and when this inclination grows firm, then it is referred to as ‘Ishq [passionate love]’. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 16)

I.e. being inclined towards something you like is called affection. And when that inclination grows firm, then it is called passionate love. Whereas, having affection and passionate love for Allah Almighty and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم mean that performing those actions that would become a means of obeying them. Sayyiduna Sahl Bin Abdullah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ states: Sign of loving Allah Almighty is loving the Holy Quran, and the sign of loving the Holy Quran is loving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and the sign of loving the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is loving his Sunnah, and the sign of loving all these things is loving the Hereafter, and the sign of loving the Hereafter is having hatred for this world except for as much as required.

(Al-Jaami’ li-Ahkam-il-Quran, vol. 2, pp. 48)

Advantages of devotion to Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Dear Islamic brothers! We come to know that the true devotee of Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is he who spends his life by obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم after getting rid of the love of this world, and does not run after this world more than needed. People who prioritize devotion to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم over the beloved things of this world attain the following great gifts:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes faith firm in the hearts of such people.

2. Their end is good.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ helps such people through Sayyiduna Jibra’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم .

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make them enter the Paradises which will be everlasting, beneath which streams flow.

5. Such people are called the favourite bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

6. Not only are their desires fulfilled, but they also get more blessings than their expectations.

7. The biggest glad tiding for them is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ gets pleased with them. (Tamheed-ul-Iman, pp. 61)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه

My Master, A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Reviver of Sunnah, Eradicator of Bid’ah, Scholar of Shari’ah, Guide of Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Al-Haj Al-Haafiz Al-Qaari Ash-Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الرَّحْمٰن was born on Saturday, 10 th Shawwal, 1272 A.H., corresponding to 14 th June 1856, at the time of Zuhr Salah in Jasoli, one of the Mahallahs (areas) of Bareilly Shareef, India. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 58 – Maktaba-tul-Madinah, Karachi)

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه derived his year of birth from the following blessed Ayah:

اُولٰٓىٕكَ كَتَبَ فِیْ قُلُوْبِهِمُ الْاِیْمَانَ وَ اَیَّدَهُمْ بِرُوْحٍ مِّنْهُ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: It is these upon whose hearts Allah has ingrained faith, and has aided them with a Spirit from His own.

(Part 28, Surah Al-Mujadalah, Ayah 22)

From a family background, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was Pathan, carrying Hanafi beliefs and was Qaadiri in Tareeqah. His father was Ustaz-ul-‘Ulama [teacher of scholars], Maulana Naqi Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and grandfather was Maulana Raza Ali Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Fadil-e-Baraylvi Ulama-e-Hijaz ki Nazar Mayn, pp. 67)

Birth name of A’la Hadrat is ‘Muhammad’. His blessed mother رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا used to call him ‘Amman Miyan’ out of love. His father and other relatives

used to call him ‘Ahmad Miyan’. His grandfather named him ‘Ahmad Raza’. His historic name is ‘Al-Mukhtar’ and A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to write ‘Abdul Mustafa’ before his name himself (Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 77) through which one can very well get a gist of his devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentions in his poetic book of Na’ats, ‘Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish’:

خَوف نہ رکھ رضا ذرا، تُو تو ہے ’’عبدِ مُصْطَفٰی‘‘

تیرے لئے اَمان ہے، تیرے لئے اَمان ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! After reading or listening about the Seerah, Fatwas [Shar’i verdicts], sayings and Na’atiyyah poetry of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, every sane individual can comprehend the fact very well that the devotion to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was embedded deeply into the heart of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه mentioned the praise of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all his life, strongly refuted those who rose allegations against the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and also specially adhered to the dignity and reverence to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم while translating the Holy Quran. You can say that kindling the flame of love for Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم into the hearts of people was his main aim. Every couplet of his poetic book consisting of Na’ats, ‘ Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish ’, reveals his love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . You can get a gist of his devotion towards the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه not only named his both sons as ‘Muhammad’ but also named his nephews with the same blessed name. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 73)

The blessed personality of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a true reflection of the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would sit, stand, eat, drink, walk, converse, all according to the Sunnah. The state of his love for the Sunnah was such that once, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was invited for a meal. The food was served. Everyone was waiting for Imam Ahmad Raza Khan

عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن to start eating. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه picked up a piece of Kakri [a kind of cucumber, usually thinner and longer than it] from the tray and ate it. Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ate the second piece and then the third. Following him, other people also stretched their hands towards the tray of Kakri, but A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stopped everyone and said, ‘I will eat all the Kakris.’ Therefore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ate all the Kakris.

All the people present were taken by surprise thinking that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه normally eats very less. How come he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ate so much Kakri today? When asked about eating all the Kakris, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said, ‘When I ate the first piece, it was bitter; and so was the second and the third. Therefore, I stopped everyone from eating it in case somebody spits it out after putting it in his mouth due to it being bitter. Since eating Kakri is a Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that’s why I could not stand the fact that anyone spits it out after eating it.’ (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 457)

مجھ کو میٹھے مُصطَفٰے کی سُنَّتوں سے پیار ہے

اِن شَآءَ اللّٰە دو جہاں میں اپنا بیڑا پار ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that the devotion of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made him eat the bitter Kakris, but could not stand the fact that anyone makes a face or expresses disliking it after eating the beloved thing, Kakri, of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Undoubtedly, this is the apparent proof of his passionate love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his Sunnah; because the one who loves the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم actually loves Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . As Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنۡ اَحَبَّ سُنَّتِىۡ فَـقَدۡ اَحَبَّنِىۡ وَ مَنۡ اَحَبَّنِىۡ كَانَ مَعِىَ فِى الْجَنَّةٍ ’ i.e. The one who loved my Sunnah loved me, and the one who loved me will be with me in the Paradise. (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 55, Hadees 175)

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! Due to the blessing of acting upon the Sunnah, one attains the closeness to Allah Almighty. Due to the blessing of acting upon the Sunnah, one attains success in both worlds. Due to the blessing of acting upon the Sunnah, one’s devotion towards the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم increases. And due to the blessing of acting upon the Sunnah, one’s ranks get elevated.

Due to having true love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, A‘la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to revere blessed Ahadees a lot. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would always deliver the Dars of Hadees by sitting in the reverential position. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would neither touch the blessed Ahadees nor teach it without being in the state of Wudu. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would not place any other book on top of the Hadees books. If any person tried to intervene while he was explaining a Hadees, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would become extremely angry; to the extent that his blessed face would turn red due to the anger. He disliked sitting placing a foot on the knee while teaching the blessed Hadees.

(Faizan-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 276)

Dear Islamic brothers! Treading upon the footsteps of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we shall also especially take care of the dignity and reverence for the Holy Quran and the blessed Hadees. We should try to pay full attention along with abiding by all the etiquettes and manners even when listening to the Holy Quran, blessed Hadees and Sunnah inspiring Bayans while refraining from the elements of disrespect, heedlessness and carelessness. Remember! Respect elevates one to the heights of success, whereas disrespect throws one into the pits of failures and deprivation. Alas! The element of disrespect is prevalent all around today. Especially, the respect and reverence for the sacred names and scripts are almost diminishing now. At times, the pages containing the blessed names of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the Ayahs of the Holy Quran are seen lying around in the middle of a road, or even مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the drains. Similarly, some people state such words for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم deliberately or out of inattention that are not worthy of being used for the dignity of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . May Allah Almighty make us among those who are

respectful and safeguard us from the company of disrespectful people and reading their literature.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

There was a special grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم upon A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and the style of his writing was so attractive and charming that even reverence itself would feel proud of him. Normally, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would respect all the great personages from the bottom of his heart, but in the matters of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he would take great care of reverence. If مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the element of disrespect for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is revealed from anyone’s writing or conversation, or if he felt any word to be less respectful for the honour and glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would immediately warn them. Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also avoid using such words in his writings and Na’atiyyah poetry. Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing events in this regard:

Reverence for the sacred names

It is stated on page 173 of the 561-page book ‘ Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: One day, the nephew of Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Maulana Hasanayn Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, was relating some questions to Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked by the people seeking Fatwa from him and was also writing the answers down. He wrote the word ‘ اللّٰه ’ [Allah] on a card. Upon this, A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Remember! I never write three things on a card: (1) Ism-e-Jalalat i.e. ‘ اللّٰه ’, (2) ‘ محمّد ’ and ‘ احمد ’ and (3) any blessed Ayah. For example, If I have to write ‘ رَسُوۡلُ اللّٰه صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم ’, then I do so in the following manner: ‘ حُضُورِ اَقۡدَس عَلَيۡهِ اَفۡضَلُ الصَّلٰوةِ وَالسَّلَام ’; or if I am to write the ‘Ism-e-Jalalat’ i.e. ‘ اللّٰه ’, then I replace it with the word ‘ مَولٰي تَعَالٰي ’. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 73)

Did not write words contrary to reverence

Once, Maulana Sayyid Shah Ismail Hasan Miyan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه requested A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه to write the blessed Salat ‘Alan Nabi that also contained the words ‘Husayn’ and ‘Zahid’ as the attributes of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did write the Salat ‘Alan Nabi but did not write both these words. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه explained that the word Husayn occupies a meaning of being ‘younger’ and ‘Zahid’ is used for that who owns nothing. (Whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has full authority over everything by the Divine bestowal of Allah Almighty. Therefore,) I do not feel appropriate to use these words in the praise of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that what great passion and enthusiasm of respect and reverence was possessed by the blessed personality of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The love of Allah Almighty and His beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had been engraved onto his heart; as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said himself on one occasion: If somebody cuts my heart into two pieces, he will find لَاۤ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللہ on one and مُحَمَّدٌرَّسُولُ اللہ on the other. (Sawanih Imam Ahmad Raza, pp.94)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Qafilahs of 12 days and one month

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to devotionally love A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and attain the priceless treasure of the devotion to Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, remain associated with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and make it your routine to travel with the Madani Qafilahs. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in order to propagate Sunnahs, Madani Qafilahs of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, keep on travelling in the path of Allah Almighty for 12 days and one month. Fortunate devotees of Rasool travel with these Madani Qafilahs and attain its immense blessings. Due to the blessing of travelling in these Madani

Qafilahs, a Madani reformation has taken place in the lives of many individuals till now. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, one attains the company of the righteous people.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, one attains the privilege of observing Nafl [supererogatory] I’tikaf in the Masjid.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, non-Salah offering people become familiar with the importance of Salah.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, one gets the privilege of learning various Islamic rulings.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, activities like Zikr-o-Azkaar, Dars and Bayanaat are continuously carried out in the Masajid.

٭ Due to the blessings of the Madani Qafilahs, Masajid get enlivened.

٭ What can be said about enlivening the Masajid! It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The one who stays in a Masjid for Zikr and Salah, then Allah Almighty becomes pleased with him in such a way as people become pleased upon the return of their loved one who went missing.

(Ibn-e-Majah, vol. 1, pp. 438, Raqm 800)

For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of a 12-day Madani Qafilah.

Beheld the vision in wakefulness….whose?

One Islamic brother attained the privilege of travelling with a 12-day Madani Qafilah for the first time. Their Madani Qafilah stayed in a Masjid of Nawab Shah (Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh). Due to being far away from performing righteous deeds, he was not getting a pleasant feeling in the Madani Qafilah. One day, Sunnah-inspiring Madani Halqah [learning circle] was going on according to the schedule in the courtyard of the Masjid. In the meantime, it became sunny there. One Islamic brother got up and went inside the Masjid. In a little while, a voice was heard from inside the Masjid. Everyone became attentive

to it. In the meanwhile, the same Islamic brother came crying and said, ‘just now in the state of wakefulness, I beheld a pious personality with a luminous face and head adorned with a green turban. He was saying the following: ‘Those learning Sunnahs in the courtyard and sunlight are reaping more reward.’ Listening to this, eyes of all the participants of the Madani Qafilah welled up. That Islamic brother became extremely impressed and made a firm intention in the heart that now he will never leave the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ now, travelling regularly with the Madani Qafilahs has become his habit. Once, their Madani Qafilah was staying in Mirpur Khas (Bab-ul-Islam, Sindh). One devotee of Rasool relayed that at the time of Tahajjud, he saw that Noor is being showered upon the entire participants of the Madani Qafilah. This increased his passion further. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, at the time of mentioning this account, out of the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami, he has been given the responsibility of Madani In’amaat at the ‘Alaqa’ee [area] level.

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you hear that how greatly the travellers of Madani Qafilahs are blessed? It was perhaps not an extremely hot weather. That’s why the devotees of Rasool were probably engaged in learning the Sunnahs in the cool sunlight of the morning and they were encouraged in this way. Otherwise, it is not appropriate to conduct a Madani Halqah in severe sunlight without any reason as one cannot concentrate because of it and the risk of misunderstandings in learning cannot be ruled out too.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه could tolerate everything against himself, but he could not tolerate even a minor form of disrespect and blasphemy against the blessed honour of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is for this reason that whenever A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would come across the blasphemous statements written by the blasphemers, tears would well up in his eyes. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه strongly exposed the conspiracies of the enemies of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم without regardless of criticism and condemnation from anyone. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would remain dignifying and

praising his Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه firmly defended the attacks made against the honour and dignity of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by the heretics throughout his life so that those people could become angry and furious with him and direct their insulting sayings or writings against him (A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه). As is the summary of his writing: اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will not pay any heed to the attacks and sentences full of criticism made against me. I have been assigned with the task by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to defend the honour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, not mine. I am happy for as long as they abuse, insult, and slander me, at least they remain heedless from speaking ill and picking out faults in the blessed Personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for that amount of time. The coolness of my eyes lies in the fact that the respect and honour of mine, my father’s and grandfather’s play the role of being a shield for the honour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, 15; summarised)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Department of Khuddam-ul-Masajid

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to instil the love of Allah Almighty and His Beloved Habib صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in your hearts and to remain associated with A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the Madani environment of the devotees of Rasool is a great blessing. Therefore, remain associated with this Madani environment all the time and support Dawat-e-Islami fully for serving the religious activities.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, is conveying the call towards righteousness in more or less 104 departments. One among them is the department of ‘Khuddam-ul-Masajid’. Formation of this department is the fulfilment of this dream of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه that only if! Our Masajid get enlivened. Their liveliness returns back and the people who have distanced away from their Allah Almighty due to Nafs and Satan come back closer to Him.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, along with trying to enliven the old Masajid, the department of ‘Khuddam-ul-Masajid’ also continues to strive to construct new Masajid. In this regard, the construction of Masajid, etc., keeps going on in one way or the other. The areas or cities that require Masajid, responsible Islamic brothers of the department of Khuddam-ul-Masajid seek Shar’i guidance from Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat through the responsible Islamic brother of the Mushawarat of that area, city or Kabinah, and make the efforts to purchase land there. Furthermore, influential personalities are approached for the construction work of the Masjid. May Allah Almighty enable the department of ‘Khuddam-ul-Masajid’ to carry out this noble task with more steadfastness.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Reason behind reverence for Sadaat-e-Kiraam

Dear Islamic brothers! As in the sight of a true devotee, everything that has a relation or connection with his beloved is devotional, honourable and respectable for him, therefore, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه besides loving everything that is related to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also had special reverence for the Sayyids.

‘Allamah Maulana Zafaruddin Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sadaat-e-Kiraam, by the virtue of having a connection with the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, deserve the most respect and reverence, and I found A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه abiding by it completely. He did not view a Sayyid Sahib as his personal acquaintance or according to his competence but would see him from the point of view that he is a part of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . With such reverence and concept in mind, whatever respect and reverence of Sadaat-e-Kiraam is done is absolutely right. (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 179)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to two faith-refreshing parables of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه filled with the love and affection of Sadaat-e-Kiraam so that we could also develop the love and reverence of the respected Sadaat-e-Kiraam in our hearts.

Reformed the one who took a Sayyid’s name

‘Allamah Maulana Zafaruddin Qaadiri Razavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Maulana Noor Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and Maulana Sayyid Qana’at Ali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه both would gain Islamic knowledge in the blessed company of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Once, Maulana Noor Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by taking the name of a Sayyid Sahib, called out like this: ‘Qana’at Ali, Qana’at Ali!’ When the true devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard this, he did not like the fact that the name of the son of the family of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم be called out in this manner. He immediately called Maulana Noor Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and said by making an individual effort: ‘Is this the way to call the Sayyid Sahibs? Have you ever heard me calling them out like this?’ (i.e. I am the teacher, even then I have never done so in such a manner). Having heard this, Maulana Noor Muhammad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه felt deeply ashamed and lowered his eyes regretfully. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: ‘Go! Be careful in future.’ (Hayat-e-A’la Hadrat, vol. 1, pp. 183)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Wonderful respect of a Sayyid

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal, Muhammad Ilyas ‘Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه writes in his booklet “ A Brief Biography of Imam Ahmad Raza ”: Once, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was invited in some Mahallah (area) of Bareilly Sharif. The devotees arranged for a palanquin to bring him to their house. Therefore, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه got onto the palanquin. Four labourers picked it up on their shoulders and started to walk. After they had just moved a few steps, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suddenly called out from inside the palanquin: ‘Please stop the palanquin.’ The palanquin was stopped. He

رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه immediately got off and asked the labourers in an emotional state: ‘Tell me truthfully which one of you is a Sayyid [1] ? Because my passion of faith is feeling the fragrance of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ Stepping forward, one of the labourers said, Huzoor, ‘I am a Sayyid.’ No sooner had he completed his sentence, leader of the Muslim world, the Great revivalist of his era, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took off his blessed turban and placed it at the feet of the Sayyid. Tears are trickling from the eyes of Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and he is imploring with his hands joined together, ‘Honourable prince! Forgive this mistake of mine. I have unintentionally made this mistake. Oh, how dreadful! I rode on the shoulders of a prince whose blessed slippers are the majestic crown of my head. If, on the Day of Judgement, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم asked me, ‘O Ahmad Raza! Was the delicate shoulder of my son for bearing the burden of your palanquin?’ then what reply would I give? How great an insult it would be to my claim of love and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!’

After obtaining verbal forgiveness from the prince several times, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه expressed his last desire saying, ‘Dear prince! The only way to compensate for what I have done unknowingly is that now you sit in the palanquin and I would carry it on my shoulder.’ Upon hearing this request, people’s eyes welled up with tears and some of them even screamed emotionally. Despite his repeated refusal, the Sayyid prince had to get on the palanquin. What a heart-rending scene it was! The illustrious Imam of the Ahl-us-Sunnah sacrificed the glory of his Allah-gifted knowledge and worldwide fame at the feet of an unknown labourer (prince) by including himself in the labourers, for the sake of the pleasure of the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Anwaar-e-Raza, pp. 415)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Did you hear that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by the Sadaqah of the true love and devotion to Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, came to know by a specific fragrance that there is a Sayyid among those who were carrying his palanquin on their shoulders. Moreover, many people present there were witness to the outstanding expression of devotion by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, whose rank is so high that the renowned and prominent Islamic scholars of ‘Arab and ‘Ajam would regard being his disciple to be a great honour, consider his company a great privilege for themselves, seek permission to narrate Hadees from him, testify that he was the Mujaddid of the time, a perfect blessed saint and a true devotee of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had expertise in more or less 50 sciences and arts, who accomplished a translation of the Holy Quran comprising of the literal, intrinsic, literary and academic brilliance named Kanz-ul-Iman, and Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah consisting of 21,656 pages with 30 volumes covering 206 booklets and adorned with 6847 questions and answers. These are the evidences of his scholarly status and rank, whose depth of knowledge and eloquence are openly talked about everywhere, who in the short span of 2 days and in the state of an illness, wrote a remarkable and researched booklet in Haramayn Sharifayn and produced heaps of evidence for the Beloved Rasool’s صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم knowledge of Ghayb (unseen) and responded to the enemies of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Today, the same Imam, being the image of devotion and love, humbleness and humility, is openly begging for forgiveness from a Sayyid and instead of sitting himself in the palanquin, got the Sayyid Sahib to sit in the palanquin carrying its weight on his shoulder. Moreover, from this blessed practice of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we also learnt the Madani pearl that it is contrary to the respect of Sadaat-e-Kiraam to call them out by their names. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would also consider it to be disrespectful, to the extent that even if any of his associates made this kind of mistake, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would get angry and instruct them to observe respect for Sadaat-e-Kiraam in future.

Just ponder; the one who has so much regard for the love, devotion, and respect of Sadaat-e-Kiraam, then what would be the status of his devotion to the Master of all Sayyids, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Dear Islamic brothers! When someone has immense devotion for someone, then the devotee often uses poetry to express his sincere feelings and to praise his beloved as one can express his hearty feelings very well through poetry. That’s the reason A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also adopted the way of Na’atiyyah poetry to express his devotion. Hadaiq-e-Bakhshish, a Na’atiyyah collection filled with deep love and devotion, is a great achievement of A’la Hadrat’s poetry. Every couplet written by A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is absolutely according to the Shari’ah.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Also keep in mind that not everyone can write Na’atiyyah poetry, nor does everyone have permission for this. For Na’atiyyah poetry, in addition to the principles of the art of poetry, the wealth of Islamic knowledge and the company of righteous Islamic scholars etc., are also essential. Many poets who are matchless in the worldly poetry, when they started writing Na’atiyyah poetry, due to being deprived of the Islamic knowledge and the company of Islamic scholars, they faced such problems that ‘ اَلامَان وَالْحَفِیْظ ’! Anyways, it is safer that ordinary people should exclude the idea of writing Na’atiyyah poetry from their minds because it is not an easy task.

May I be sacrificed on the cautious approach of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that despite being perfectly competent to write Na’at and having expertise in the principles of the art of poetry, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would still consider writing blessed Na’at to be a difficult task. He himself has stated: ‘In reality, to write a blessed Na’at is an extremely difficult task which is considered easy by people. In it, one has to walk on the edge of a sword.’

(Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 227)

Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated regarding Na’atiyyah poetry on page number 232 of his book ‘ Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab ’: ‘It is the Sunnah of the blessed companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم, i.e. writing Na’atiyyah poetry has been proven by some companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم such as Hassaan Bin Saabit رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and Sayyiduna Zayd رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . Anyhow, keep

in mind that writing blessed Na’atiyyah poetry is an extremely difficult art for which one should be an Islamic scholar as well as having expertise in this field. Otherwise, if he is not an Islamic scholar, then he may fall into using words that are contradictory to the honour of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to keep a balance of the words (repeated after rhyme), rhyming words and the meter (i.e. weight of the couplet). It is not appropriate for ordinary people to get the desire of poetry as there is more risk of Kufriyat [statements of disbelief] to occur in poetry rather than in the prose work. Even if the poetry remains safe from Shar’i mistakes, still very few people have the mindset of refraining from unnecessary things. The way unnecessary words are found abundantly in everyday conversations nowadays, similarly, they are found in Bayan and Na’atiyyah poetry as well.’

(Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 232)

Therefore, respect and reverence demand that those who are unaware of the art of Na’at should not develop the interest of writing Na’at themselves as this is better for them in both the worlds.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! As long as A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained alive, due to the Sadaqah of devotion to Rasool, he not only himself kept attaining spiritual grace and refulgence from the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم but also benefited the creation. Furthermore, the favours and bestowals from the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were not limited to his lifetime only, rather, the blessings and favours showered upon him even after his demise.

Waiting in the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

On 25 th Safar-ul-Muzaffar (1340 AH), a Syrian saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه dreamt in Bayt-ul-Muqaddas that he was present in the glorious court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . All the blessed Companions رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and great Awliya were also present there, but there was complete silence in that

gathering. It seemed as if they were waiting for someone. The Syrian saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! Huzoor who is being waited for?’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘We are waiting for Ahmad Raza.’ The Syrian saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه asked, Huzoor ‘Who is Ahmad Raza?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘He is a native of Bareilly in India.’ When the saint awoke, he immediately left for India to meet A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . But when he reached Bareilly Shareef, he found out that A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed away on the same day (i.e. 25 th Safar, 1340 A.H.) when he heard the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying in his dream that ‘We are waiting for Ahmad Raza.’ (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 35 - 36)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls regarding keeping names

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the few Madani pearls of keeping names with good intentions. First, listen to 2 sayings of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ On the Day of Judgement, you will be called with your and your forefathers’ names. Therefore, keep good names for yourselves.

(Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 374, Hadees 4948)

٭ Keep names after the names of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام .

(Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 374, Hadees 4950)

٭ Keeping the Kunyah [patronymic] of a child is permissible, and to gain blessings, it is better to keep the Kunyah with the association of any pious personality. For example, Abu Turaab (this is the Kunyah of Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ), etc. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, part 16, pp. 213)

Announcement

Remaining Madani pearls of keeping names will be mentioned in the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. Therefore, do attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs in order to learn these Madani pearls.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-’Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-’Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَ كَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

Jadwal for the Halqahs [learning sessions] of the weekly Ijtima’ (overseas), 01 November 2018

1. Short Bayan on different topics: 5 minutes

2. Memorising Du’a: 5 minutes

3. Fikr-e-Madinah: 5 minutes

4. Total duration: 15 minutes

Madani pearls regarding keeping names

٭ Keeping the names ‘Abdul Mustafa, ‘Abdun Nabi and ‘Abdur Rasool are absolutely permissible as through this, the aim is to gain the blessings of the association of the names. ‘Abd has two meanings. Bondman and slave. That’s why, there is no harm in keeping these names. Keeping the names Ghulam Muhammad, Ghulam Siddeeq, Ghulam Farooq, Ghulam ‘Ali, Ghulam Husayn etc., those names that contain the association of the word ‘Ghulam’ towards the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and righteous people, is absolutely permissible. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, pp. 213)

٭ Muhammad Bakhsh, Ahmad Bakhsh, Peer Bakhsh and keeping such kind of other names that contain the name ‘Bakhsh’ associated with any Nabi or Wali is absolutely permissible. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, pp. 214)

٭ The names Taahaa, Yaseen shall not be kept as these are among the Muqatta’at-e-Quraniyyah. Their meanings are not known. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, pp. 213)

٭ Bad names shall be changed with the good ones.

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, pp. 213)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Du’a while entering the graveyard

In the Madani Halqahs of Dawat-e-Islami’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ this week, the Du’a ‘ while entering the graveyard ’ will be taught as per the schedule. The Du’a is as following:

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَیْکُمْ یَا اَھْلَ الْقُبُوْرِ، یَغْفِرُ اﷲُ لَنَا وَ لَکُمْ، اَ نْتُمْ سَلَفُنَا وَ نَحْنُ بِالْاَثَرِ

Translation: O the dwellers of graves! May peace be upon you. May Allah Almighty forgive us and you. You came here before us, and we are to come here after you. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 1055)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Pondering (over the Hereafter) for a moment is better than the worship of 60 years.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 365, Hadees 5897)

Let’s make “good intentions” before filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet:

1. To please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, I will carry out today’s Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. self- accountability) myself through the Madani In’amaat booklet and persuade others as well.

2. I will praise (i.e. thank) Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the Madani In’amaat which I practised.

3. I will regret the Madani In’amaat which I did not practise and try to act on them in the future.

4. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, if I have not acted on any such Madani In’aam which saves a person from the sins, I will make a firm intention of not committing sin in the future, along with making repentance and Istighfar.

5. I will not reveal my good deeds without need (for example, I act on such and such or these many Madani In’amaat).

6. I will act afterwards or tomorrow on the Madani In’amaat which can be practised afterwards (for example, one did not recite Salat-’Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم 313 times today).

7. I will try to achieve the actual aim of filling in the Madani In’amaat booklet (for example, Divine fear, piety, correcting manners, progress in the Madani activities, etc.).

8. I will fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet (i.e. carry out Fikr-e-Madinah) tomorrow as well.

9. I will not consider it a usual formality but fill in the Madani In’amaat booklet while pondering.

Mark the boxes given below with a “correct (i.e. inverted tick)” sign for the Madani In’amaat you have practised today and mark them with a “(0) sign” in case you have not practised them.

Attention: Carry out Fikr-e-Madinah while keeping an eye on your own Madani In’amaat booklet only.

Method of collective Fikr-e-Madinah (72 Madani In’amaat)

Daily 50 Madani In’amaat

1. Made good intentions?

2. Offered all 5 daily Salahs with Jama’at and Takbeer-e-Aula?

3. Recited Ayat-ul-Kursi, Tasbih-e-Fatimah and Surah Al-Ikhlas after every Salah?

4. Replied to Azan and Iqamat?

5. Recited Salat ‘Alan Nabi 313 times?

6. Paid Salam to Muslims?

7. Conversed using the words “ Aap ” and “ Jee ”?

8. Said ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ upon intending for permissible things?

9. Replied to the Hamd of the one saying Salam or who sneezed?

10. Used terminologies of Dawat-e-Islami?

11. Applied Qufl-e-Madinah of stomach while eating less than hunger?

12. Delivered or listened to two Madani Dars?

13. Studied or taught in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan?

14. Read or listened to a reformative book for 12 minutes and 4 consecutive pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat ?

15. Performed Fikr-e-Madinah?

16. Offered Salat-ut-Taubah?

17. Slept on mat? Kept Sunnah box by the pillow?

18. Offered Sunnahs before Fard and Nawafil after the Faraaid?

19. Offered Tahajjud, Ishraq, Chasht and Awwabeen?

20. Offered Tahiyya-tul-Wudu and Tahiyya-tul-Masjid?

21. Recited or listened to three Ayahs from Kanz-ul-Iman with translation and commentary?

22. Performed individual efforts on two (Islamic) brothers?

23. Spent two hours in Madani activities?

24. Obeyed your Nigran?

25. Refrained from using things asking from others?

26. In case one committed a mistake, did you reform him?

27. Performed veil within veil? Moreover, faced towards the Qiblah?

28. Controlled your anger?

29. Refrained from useless questions?

30. Observed Shar’i veil from your non-Mahram relatives / neighbours?

31. Refrained from films, dramas, songs and music etc.?

32. Made efforts to establish Madani environment at home?

33. Refrained from slandering and abusing?

34. Refrained from intervening into other’s conversation?

35. Called out Sada-e-Madinah?

36. Kept your gaze lowered while applying Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes?

37. Made the efforts to refrain from peeping into others’ houses?

38. Refrained from lying, backbiting, tale-telling, jealousy, arrogance and breaking promises?

39. Stayed in the state of Wudu for most part of the day?

40. Refrained from staring at the face of the addressee?

41. Paid back the loan on time?

42. Concealed Muslims’ faults?

43. Kept unified relations?

44. Made efforts to create humility and self-mortification during Salah and Du’a?

45. Refrained from uttering such words of humility which your heart does not approve to?

46. While applying Qufl-e-Madinah of tongue, did you converse through gestures and by writing 4 times?

47. Watched or listened to the video/audio of one Bayan or Madani Muzakarah, or watched Madani Channel for 1 hour 12 minutes?

48. Refrained from joking, taunting, hurting feelings and laughing aloud?

49. Used minimum words for necessary conversation?

50. Wore Madani attire the whole day?

Qufl-e-Madinah performance

٭ Conversing through writing – 12 times

٭ Conversing through gestures – 12 times

٭ Conversing without staring – 12 times

٭ Usage of Qufl-e-Madinah glasses – 12 minutes

Weekly 8 Madani In’amaat

1. Attended the weekly Ijtima’ from beginning to end?

2. Performed individual efforts on at least 4 brothers after the Ijtima’?

3. Inquired after an ill person?

4. Took part in Madani Daurah?

5. Made efforts to bring those back who were associated to the Madani environment but do not come anymore?

6. Attended the Masjid Ijtima’ (weekly Madani Muzakarah)?

7. Sent a letter?

8. Kept Sawm on Monday?

Du’a of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat

Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please do not give death to the person until he recites Kalimah who acts upon the Madani In’amaat with the sincerity of the heart, fills in the booklet through Fikr-e-Madinah daily and submits it to his responsible Islamic person on the 1 st of every Madani month.

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

