Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Virtues of Worship in Youth

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰہَ وَکَّلَ بِقَبْرِیْ مَلَکًا ’ undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed an angel to my grave ‘ اَعْطَاہُ اَسْمَاعَ الْخَلَائِقِ ’ who has been granted the ability to hear the voice of every creature. ‘ فلَاَ یُصَلِّیْ عَلَیَّ اَحَدٌ اِلٰی یَوْمِ الْقِیَامَۃِ اِلَّا اَبْلَغَنِیْ بِاِسْمِہٖ وَاِسْمِ اَبِیْہِ ہٰذَا فُلانُ بْنُ فُلانٍٍ قَدْ صَلّٰی عَلَیْک ’ Hence, whosoever recites Salat upon me until the Day of Judgement, he [angel] presents to me that person’s name along with his father’s name [and] says, ‘So and so has recited Salat upon you this time’.

(Musnad Al-Bazzaar, vol. 4, pp. 254, Hadees 1425)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

NOTE: ​

​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The topic of today’s Bayan is ‘Virtues of Worship in Youth ’. Generally, heedlessness and carelessness in one’s youth and not appreciating these beautiful moments bring about regret in the old age. Therefore, as long as one has youth and health, it is essential to constantly spend them in worship.

Young worshipper

It is stated on page number 320 of the book ‘Hikayatayn aur Naseehatayn’, a publication of Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publication department of Dawat-e-Islami: A saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that I saw a young man in a jungle, far away from people and the populated areas, busy worshipping in seclusion. I said Salam to him and he replied to my Salam. I then asked him: ‘O young man! Why are you here at such a deserted place, where you have no helper nor a companion?’ He replied: ‘Why not, By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I do have a helper as well as a companion.’ I asked: ‘Where is your helper and companion?’ He replied: ‘He has superiority over me with His dignity; He is with me with His

knowledge; He is in front of me with His guidance, and His blessing and dignity are on my right and left.’

When I heard this, I humbly asked: ‘Will you allow me to have your company? ’ He said: ‘Your company will make me heedless of worship and I do not like this, (because) the King of the earth from the East to West is sufficient for me.’ I asked: ‘Do you not feel nervous in this place.’ He replied: ‘One whose friend is Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, how will he be nervous?’ I asked: ‘Where do you eat from?’ He replied: ‘When I was unborn yet, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ provided me with food even inside the womb of my mother through His Divine blessings and now that I have grown up, will He عَزَّوَجَلَّ not provide me sustenance? He has a fixed amount of sustenance for me and its time is also written.’

I then requested him to make Du’a, so he made Du’a for me in the following manner: May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect your eyes from His disobedience, fill your heart with His fear, and not make you among those who become heedless of Worship after being occupied with other than Him!’ Thereafter, when he stood up to leave, I went up to him and humbly asked: ‘O my brother! When will we meet again?’ He said smilingly: ‘I will not meet you in this world after today. However! On the Day of Judgement when all the people will be gathered, if you would want to meet me, then you could find me among those who will have Deedar-e-Ilahi (the blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ I asked: ‘How have you come to know about this?’ He replied: ‘By His dignity! I have learnt it through Him because I have prevented my eyes from looking at Haraam things and my Nafs from satisfying the desires and adopted seclusion in the dark nights for His worship (I am hopeful that He will be pleased with me and) in return for this, He will let me have His sight.’ That young man then disappeared and I never met him again. (Ar-Raud-ur-Faaiq, pp. 166, 167)

محبت میں اپنی گما یا الہی نہ پاؤں میں اپنا پتا یا الہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In the abovementioned parable, the young man deviated away from this world and kept himself occupied with worship and spiritual exercises since his youth, and prevented himself from looking at the things that were considered to be Haraam by Shari’ah and resided lonely in the jungle. This parable contains countless Madani pearls of admonition, in particular for those young people who are intoxicated with their youth, and are deceived by Nafs and Satan and are thus involved in committing sins and displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Such people should understand the importance of their

youth and instead of destroying their precious moments in useless things, they should spend them in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, as the blessing of youth is given only once in life.

Hakeem-ul-Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Health, youth, wealth and life should not be wasted; perform good deeds when you have these things as these blessings are not given again and again. (He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه further said that) after wasting one’s youth in (unproductive) entertainments,

when parts of the body become useless in the old age, having a desire for abundant worship is foolishness. Whatever act you want to perform, do so in your youth because a young righteous person has a great elevated status.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 16)

Five questions

Dear Islamic sisters! Youth is undoubtedly one of the greatest blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ which is priceless; once it is gone, it can never be regained even after spending billions. If in this world, we would have spent our youth in obeying and worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then we can be safe from the embarrassment and shame on the Day of Judgement, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Otherwise, we may fall into absolute disgrace due to not appreciating this blessing (of youth); because on the Day of Judgement, the question will also be asked regarding our youth.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: On the Day of Judgement, a person will not be able to lift his foot until he is questioned about five things: (1) In which activities was the life spent? (2) In which activities was the youth spent? (3) From where was the wealth earned? (4) Where was it spent? (5) To what extent did you act upon your knowledge?

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 188, Hadees 2424)

The fortunate one who appreciates her youth overcomes her carnal desires and spends her days and nights in the acts of worship purely for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, she receives a lot of goodness in this world and the Hereafter. In this regard, let’s listen to four blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

Status of a young worshipper

1 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: A young man performing worship in his youth has superiority over an old man worshipping in the old age in the same way as Mursaleen (عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام) have over all the Ambiya.

(Attargheeb fi Fadaail-ul-A’maal, pp. 78, Hadees 228)

Deserving the reward of 72 Siddiqeen

2 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: A young man who gives up the pleasure and luxuries of the world and advances towards the obedience of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his youth, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant him the reward equivalent to seventy-two Siddiqeen.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 43099)

Real bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلّ َ

3 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves most that beautiful young man amongst His creation who spent his youth and beauty in worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Taking pride in him in front of the angels, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says, ‘He is My real bondman.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 332, Hadees 42096)

Beloved bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

4 He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves such young person who has devoted his youth in obeying the Almighty. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 5, pp. 394, Hadees 7496)

تُو اپنی وِلایت کی خَیرات دیدے مِرے غَوث کا واسِطَہ یا الٰہی

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 105)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that those who appreciate their youth, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants them such a favour and grace that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ includes them among His beloved bondmen! Therefore, young Islamic sisters are requested that if they want to live a peaceful and comfortable life in their old age, then appreciate the blessing of youth by trying to make their Nafs attracted to worship instead of running after the mortal world. Though it is very difficult as hopes and desires are at their peak in youth, but along with our other affairs, if we follow the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and act upon the noble and virtuous life of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ there will be a Madani reformation in our lives as well.

Beloved Rasool’s passion for worship

Sayyiduna ‘Ata رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar, Sayyiduna ‘Ubayd Bin ‘Amr رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما and I went to Umm-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyidatuna ‘Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا . Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Umar رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُما humbly asked: ‘Tell us something about the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that would astonish us.’

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا started weeping and said: ‘One night, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to me and said: ‘Allow me to worship my Rab (عَزَّوَجَلَّ).’ I humbly said: ‘I prefer your closeness to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ more than my desire.’ Therefore, the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stood in a corner of the house and started weeping. Then having performed Wudu [ablution] properly, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم started reciting the Holy Quran. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم again started weeping until the tears, coming out of his blessed eyes, fell onto the ground. In the meanwhile, Sayyiduna Bilal Habashi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ arrived. Seeing the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم weeping, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ humbly asked: ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! May my parents be sacrificed for you! What has made you weep? Whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive the sins of the people of the past and the future for your sake?’ He said: ‘Should I not be a thankful person?’’ (Durra-tun-Nasiheen, pp. 253-254)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you heard that our Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, despite being Ma’soom (innocent), rather, Sayyid-ul-Ma’soomeen and Sayyid-ul-‘Aabideen (the leader of Ma’soom and Islamic worshippers), would still worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with so much of weeping, whereas the glory and dignity of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is so great that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made him the owner and granted him the authority. By the bestowment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Greatest and Holiest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede through his authority on behalf of those sinners who would have

become disappointed about not being forgiven on the Day of Judgement. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated his own glory: ‘(On the Day of Judgement), first of all, I will come out (from my luminous shrine). When people will come in the form of groups, I will be their leader. When they will become silent (due to the horrors of the Day of Judgement), I will be their Khateeb (sermoniser). When they will be stopped, I will be their intercessor; when they will become hopeless, then I will be the one who will give them the good news. I will have sublimity and grandeur and the keys of all the treasures (of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) in my hands that day and among the offspring of Sayyiduna Aadam (عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام), I will be the noblest one in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . 1000 servants will be around me. (Sunan Daarimi, vol. 1, pp. 39, Hadees 48)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! May we be sacrificed! Despite being the master of the ancients and the moderns and despite being the owner and having authority over everything by the bestowment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the state of the passion of Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for worshipping was such that due to worship, the marks of swelling on his blessed feet would become apparent and he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would weep for the forgiveness of the sinners of his Ummah. It contains Madani pearls of advice, in particular, for the youth who does not get inclined towards worship and waste their entire night in useless things. Therefore, such people are requested to remember the blessed tears of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In order to attain success in this world and the Hereafter, obey the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and act upon Sunnahs of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and perform good deeds abundantly with the greed of attaining rewards in the Hereafter.

Consider youth to be a blessing before the old age

Dear Islamic sisters! Remember! To be able to worship in youth is a very great blessing because as soon as a person grows up, she falls victim to the dangerous tricks of Satan, impermissible desires of the Nafs, company of bad friends, the worries of bettering the worldly future and earning wealth through impermissible ways by indulging in this mortal world, all these factors lead her towards committing sins. As such, she is unable to get inclined towards the acts of worship.

Remember! We have been sent to the world for a very short period of time and we have to prepare for the very long matters of the grave and the Day of Judgement during this time. Therefore, wise is the one who considers this short period of time to be a blessing and becomes occupied in the preparations of the grave and the Day of Judgement, and does not waste her precious time in the

useless activities; as it is not known whether she will be alive the next moment or death will make her fall into a deep sleep for a long period of time. Therefore, considering one’s youth and life to be a blessing, one should get occupied in performing virtuous deeds.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Value five things before five [other things]: Youth before the old age, health before the illness, affluence before poverty, leisure time before being busy and life before death.’

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 2, pp. 245, Hadees 5174)

If we also occupy ourselves with preparing for the grave and the Hereafter instead of spending our youth heedlessly, then by the blessings of this, not only will it improve our world but the mercies and blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will also shower in our graves abundantly اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In this regard, let’s listen to a very beautiful parable.

Glad tidings of 2 Jannah

In the era of Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, a pious young man used to remain busy worshipping in the Masjid. When he passed away (and after the arrangements for his Ghusl (ritual bath), funeral and burial were made in the same very night), when Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was informed about this incident in the morning, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ went to his (deceased’s) father in order to express his condolences over the death of his righteous son. (Having expressed his condolences), he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Why did you not inform me?’ (so that I could also attend his funeral Salah etc.) He humbly said: ‘O Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! Much part of the

night had passed.’ (Therefore, keeping your rest in mind, it was thought better not to inform you) . So Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ said: ‘Take me to the grave of that pious young man.’ Thus, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and his companions were taken to that young man’s grave. He رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ called out: ‘O so-and-so! (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said):

وَ لِمَنْ خَافَ مَقَامَ رَبِّهٖ جَنَّتٰنِۚ(۴۶)

And for the one who fears standing in the Majestic Court of his Lord, are two Paradises [1] .

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)] (Part 27, Surah Ar-Rahman, Ayah 46)

The (practising) young man replied twice from his grave, ‘Ya Ameer-ul- Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ! My Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon me both of these two Paradises.’ (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 45, pp. 450, Raqm 5320)

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Did you hear that the young man, while protecting himself from sins, spent his whole life performing virtuous deeds? And after his death, this worship brought about his forgiveness and he was also blessed with the great blessings of Paradise too. Remember! Beauty and youth are mortal wealth and being proud of it is an act of foolishness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Instead of boasting over your health and youth and wasting your days and nights in committing sins, develop the passion for worship and yearning for the recitation of the Holy Quran with sincerity and steadfastness. If you get old in this state and the passion for worship also remains intact, then despite having poor health and no power to perform the

virtuous acts, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will continue to get the reward equal to the reward for worshipping in the youth. Therefore,

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: When a person reaches that part of his age (while performing good deeds in the state of Islam) that he does not remember anything (when needed) despite having its knowledge (from beforehand), then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continues to record those good deeds in his Book of deeds as well which he used to perform when he was healthy.

(Musnad Abi Ya’la, vol. 3, pp. 293, Hadees 3666)

Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The elderly person who had been performing worship (abundantly) in his youth but is unable to perform worship abundantly owing to the old age, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ declares him to be ma’zoor (excusable) and records in his Book of deeds the very same acts of worship he used to do in his youth. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 89)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Acting upon Madani In’amaat”, one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to increase the passion for worshipping in youth and remain cautious from the tricks of Satan and Nafs, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and actively take part in the 8 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah. One of the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah is to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, 63 Madani In’amaat, given to us by Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat, are the best method to become righteous. Therefore do Fikr-e-Madinah (i.e. How many Madani In’amaat have I acted upon today?) daily after setting a time. Submit it to your responsible Islamic sister after filling out the blanks given in the booklet on the first day of every Madani month. Further, also persuade other Islamic sisters to act upon ‘Madani In’amaat’ through a book, ‘ Jannat kay talabgaron kay liye Madani Guldasta ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Every Islamic sister should make her effort to have the privilege of being Ajmayri, Baghdadi, Makki and Madani daughter of Attar. Acting upon the Madani In’aam of making an individual effort distribute at least 26 booklets of Madani In’amaat every month and try to get them back as well the next month

Woke up to fact

There was an Islamic sister in Punjab (Pakistan) who, before being associated

with the fragrant Madani environment, would watch films and dramas on TV. Whenever she wanted to go to market, she would go without any purdah; she would not even offer Salah. In this way, she was heedlessly spending her days committing sins. Once, someone gave her cassettes of Sunnah-inspiring speeches released by Maktaba tul Madinah. When she listened to them, she woke up to the fact. By virtue of the blessing of the speeches she was blessed with Divine fear and devotion to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She also started offering Salah regularly and repented all of her sins especially non-observance of purdah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Madani Burqa’ became the part of her dress. The tongue she would use to hum songs now اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, is used to

recite the Na’at of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Parday kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 32)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to act upon Madani In’amaat regularly and submit it to the responsible Islamic sister of our area after filling it by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه  وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Young even in old age by the blessing of worship

Regarding worshipping in youth, Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Zaynuddin ‘Abdur Rahman Ibn Rajab Hanbali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated a very beautiful thing: One who remembered Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when he was young and healthy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will take care of him when he gets old and weak, and will also grant him good hearing, vision, strength, and intellect. Sayyiduna Abut Teeb Tabari [ ابُو الطیب طبری ] رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was over 100 years old, yet he was mentally and physically fit and healthy. Someone asked him the secret of his health. So he رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه replied, ‘I protected my physical abilities from sins in my youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has retained them for me today when I have become old.’ On the contrary, Sayyiduna Junayd Baghdadi عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی saw an old person who was begging. He رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـه said, ‘this person wasted the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in his youth, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wasted his strength in the old age.

(Majmu’ah Rasaail Ibn Rajab, vol. 3, pp. 100)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! You have just heard that the pious people of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ spent their youth in performing worship and spiritual exercises and protected themselves from sins, so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also kept the signs of their youth in their old age too. But alas! Our youths, instead of being occupied with worship and recitation of the Holy Quran, are heedlessly and carelessly destroying their precious time by misusing mobile phones, internet, social media and TV. Mobile phone is a part of modern technology, a need of the time and an important means of communication. Where it is useful for us, at the same time, its misuse is also becoming the cause of many types of harmful effects as well. The male and female students of our schools and colleges who we call the builders of the future have become victims of this terrible epidemic

too. Some are crazy for games and some are harmfully addicted to films and songs; some have memory cards full of indecent videos and some exploit night packages by spending the whole night in obscene talks. Likewise, the internet is an important and useful invention of the modern era with countless worldly and religious benefits. But due to this, many evils are becoming widespread among the youth.

The internet is like a knife which can be used for good and bad. But regretfully! Evil usage of the Internet is more prevalent in our society. The obscene articles and stories, dirty pictures and obscene films and dramas that

arouse one’s carnal desires have devastated the manners, character, habits and behaviour of the young generation. Evils like wasting money and precious time the whole night, telling lies and cheating people and blackmailing are becoming rapidly widespread among the youth of our society. In the beginning, the usage of the internet was confined to the computer only. But since this facility has become available on mobile phones as well, small children are also wasting their future falling prey to this social evil. The youths who are suffering from this epidemic get deprived of education and are seen being disgraced after losing manners and etiquettes instead of getting any status in society.

For Allah Almighty’s sake! Wake up from heedlessness and develop a mindset of reforming your children as well as reforming yourself.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Try to get inclined towards the righteous deeds and do not commit any sin by considering it to be minor; because one sin is a combination of many evil deeds, that is to say, it brings ten other evils with it.

Ten harmful effects of sin

Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has stated: Even if the sin is just one, it brings forth ten evils with it:

٭ When a person commits sin, he attracts the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, whereas, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the power to inflict wrath on that person.

٭ He (i.e. one who commits sin) makes the accursed Satan happy.

٭ He distances himself from Paradise.

٭ He gets closer to Hell.

٭ He harms the most precious thing of his, i.e. his own life.

٭ He makes his heart impure, whereas it is (originally) pure.

٭ He distresses Kiraman Katibeen [i.e. the angels writing his deeds].

٭ Such an individual makes the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم displeased in hisblessed shrine.

٭ He makes the earth and the heavens and all the creation a witness to his disobedience.

٭ He breaches the trust of all humans and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bahr-ud-Dumu’, pp. 30-31)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed that although it is only one sin, but it brings about 10 evils. Therefore, if we commit any sin, we should straightaway repent sincerely in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Alas! Millions of regrets! Some young people are intoxicated due to their youth and fall prey to the deception of this mortal world with having long hopes while observing heedlessness, ignore the commandments of Shari’ah and comfort themselves by continuously putting off the matter of repentance by saying that I am still healthy and young.’ They live with such false and hollow hopes. As the youth starts falling, old age overcomes quickly. Then such people realize that now I should firmly intend to make repentance to protect myself from sins and worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ abundantly. Then although somehow, they do succeed in performing good deeds but feel extreme regret when they recall the beautiful moments of their youth and weep by thinking that: Would that! I had spent my youth in worship. But alas! My youth is now a past and will never return.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis Madani In’amaat

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is busy protecting Muslims from sins and taking them to the virtuous path all over the world. It is busy making efforts in presenting call towards righteousness in approximately 104 departments in order to propagate this Madani activity further. One of them is ‘Majlis Madani In’amaat’. The main aim of this Majlis is to make Islamic brothers, Islamic sisters and the students of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah and Madaris-ul-Madinah practicing and to persuade them to act upon the Madani In’amaat.

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated: May all the Islamic brothers and sisters act upon these Madani In’amaat along with acting upon Fard (obligatory) and Sunan acts and all the responsible Islamic brothers and sisters of Dawat-e-Islami propagate these Madani In’amaat in their Halqahs, areas, cities, villages, Goths (small villages) so that every Muslim practices them sincerely for the betterment of their grave and the Hereafter and attains the greatest reward of being the neighbour of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in Jannat-ul-Firdaus by the grace of Allah Almighty! Let’s all make intention that we will not only try to act upon the Madani In’amaat ourselves, but will also persuade others to do so, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Undoubtedly, wise is the one who appreciates this life, repents of her sins and spends the rest of her life in constantly worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The youth, in particular, should not delay in repenting because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes very much the repentance of a young person. As the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ اِنَّ اللّٰهَ تَعَالٰي يُحِبُّ الشَّابَّ التَّائِبَ ’ i.e. One who repents in his youth is the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ut-Taubah, Al-Juz 4, vol. 3, pp. 87, Hadees 10181)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees: (مَا مِنْ شَيءٍ اَحَبُّ اِلَي اللّٰهِ مِنَ الشَّابِّ التَّائِبِ) i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like anything more than a youth who repents.

(Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, Kitab-ul-Mawa’iz, Al-Juz 15, vol. 8, pp. 332, Hadees 43101)

Reformation of youth and the role of Dawat-e-Islami

Dear Islamic sisters! In this mischievous era, Madani Tarbiyati Course is also offered by the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, for the reformation and moral education of the youths who are far away from Sunnah, intoxicated by greed and lust of this world, and committing sins abundantly falling prey to the trap of Nafs and Satan.

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sunan and manners of eating

٭ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم used to remain hungry for many nights in succession. His blessed household often did not have anything to eat at night and whenever they would get something to eat, it was mostly bread made from barley. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 160, Hadees 2367)

٭ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: My Creator presented me with the option of turning the mountains around Makkah Mukarramah into gold for me but I said, ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I wish that I eat one day and remain hungry the next so that when I am hungry, I plead and remember You, and when I eat, I thank and glorify You’. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 55, Hadees 2354)

Sunan and manners of eating

٭ Hujjat-ul-Islam, Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Whoever eats only when he is hungry and withdraws (his hand) from the food while still hungry, will never be in need of a doctor. Therefore, food should only be consumed when one is absolutely hungry. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 5)

٭ Dear Islamic sisters! Although it is permissible to eat until one is full, countless religious and worldly benefits lie in applying a Madani guard on the stomach.

٭ Abstaining from food in compulsion when it is not available is not something remarkable, but refraining from eating and staying hungry for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when food is available in abundance, is indeed an extraordinary feat.

٭ It is a Sunnah to eat once a day. Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that when the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would eat in the morning, he would not eat in the evening and when he ate in the evening, he would not eat in the morning. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 39, Hadees 18173)

٭ If there is no obstacle in carrying out religious and important worldly activities, and parents are not displeased as well, then one should keep as many Nafl Siyam [fasts] as possible.

٭ Amir-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Umar Farooq-e-A’zam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has stated, ‘Refrain from filling your stomach while eating and drinking as it harms the body, causes disease and brings about laziness in worship. To adopt moderation in eating and drinking is necessary for you, as this improves physical fitness and saves oneself from needless expenses.’ (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 15, pp. 183, Hadees 41706)

٭ It is narrated that the advice of the one whose stomach is full has no effect (on others) and when he is given advice, his mind refuses to accept it. (Nuzha-tul-Majalis, vol. 1, pp. 178)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

