Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Zakah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ مَنْ صَلّٰی عَلَیَّ یَوْمَ الْجُمُعَۃِ کَانَتْ شَفَاعَۃً لَہُ عِنْدِیْ یَوْمَ القِیَامَۃِ ’ Whoever recites Salat (Durood) upon me on the day of Friday, I will intercede for him on the Day of Judgement. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 7, pp. 199, Hadees 22352)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note:​

​The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

7 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

8 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

9 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

Bad end of Qaroon

Qaroon was the son of Yas-her, who was the uncle of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with enormous wealth; 40 such people who were stronger than normal men used to lift the keys of his treasures. In Ayah 76 of Surah Al-Qasas, part 20, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اٰتَیْنٰهُ مِنَ الْكُنُوْزِ مَاۤ اِنَّ مَفَاتِحَهٗ لَتَنُوْٓاُ بِالْعُصْبَةِ اُولِی الْقُوَّةِۗ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And We gave him so many treasures whose keys were a heavy burden for a strong group (of men).

(Part 20, Surah Al-Qasas, verse 76)

When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ revealed the commandment of Zakah to Bani Israel, Qaroon went to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and settled with him that he would pay one dinar for one thousand dinars, one dirham for one thousand dirhams, one goat for one thousand goats and similarly he would pay 1/1000 as Zakah out of his other things as well, but when he calculated his wealth and possessions for Zakah, he found that he had to take out a huge amount of wealth as Zakah. His Nafs did not dare to give so much wealth, therefore he gathered Bani Israel and said: You have obeyed every order of Musa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام). Now he wants to take your wealth. What do you say? They said: You are our elder; you can order whatever you want. Qaroon said: Go to so-and-so woman of bad character and give her a task of slandering Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام by paying her money. When it happens, Bani Israel will stop following Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام . Qaroon made the woman agree to slander Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام by giving her one thousand dirhams and one thousand dinars.

The next day Qaroon gathered Bani Israel and went to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and said: Bani Israel are waiting for you; give them guidance and advice. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام came and stated the punishments for different sins while giving them advice. Qaroon started saying: Is this command for everyone including even you? He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replied: Even for me. He said: Bani Israel assume that you have committed adultery with so-and-so [woman].

Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام said: Call her. When she came Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام asked her, ‘I make you swear by the One Who split the river for Bani Israel and made ways through it and revealed the Tawrah! Speak the truth.’ That woman got frightened and did not dare to hurt Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام by slandering him; she said to herself that it was better to repent of it. She humbly said to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Whatever Qaroon wants me to speak is untruth; the truth is that he tempted me to slander you by giving me a huge amount of money. Having heard this Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام fell into Sajdah in tears and started humbly saying, ‘Ya Rab-e-Kareem! If I am your Rasool, inflict Your wrath upon Qaroon for my sake’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to him: I have ordered the earth to obey you. Whatever command you want you can give to it. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام said to Bani Israel: O Bani Israel! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent me to Qaroon as He عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent me to pharaoh. The one who is with Qaroon should stay with him where he is and the one who is with me should separate from him. Everyone separated from Qaroon except two people.

Thereafter, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام ordered the earth ‘ يَا اَرۡضُ خُذِيۡهِمۡ ’ O earth! Grab them! They sank into the earth [ground] up to their knees. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام again ordered the same command to the earth and they sank up to their waists. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام continued to say the same until they sank up to their necks. Now they started crying and imploring and Qaroon started begging Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام for the sake of his kinship and relationship with Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام and started swearing by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام did not pay attention to him due to being very angry. Finally, they completely sank into the ground and the ground got levelled.

Sayyiduna Qatadah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that they will continue to sink into the ground until the Judgement Day. Bani Israel said, ‘Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام uttered a curse upon Qaroon due to his house, treasure and possessions.’ Having heard this he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made a Du’a then the house of Qaroon, his treasure and wealth all sank into the ground.

(Tafseer Khaazin, vol. 3, pp. 442)

In the Holy Quran, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated the end of Qaroon in this manner: In Ayah 81 of Surah Al-Qasas, part 20 it is stated:

فَخَسَفْنَا بِهٖ وَ بِدَارِهِ الْاَرْضَ-  فَمَا كَانَ لَهٗ مِنْ فِئَةٍ یَّنْصُرُوْنَهٗ مِنْ دُوْنِ اللّٰهِۗ-وَ مَا كَانَ مِنَ الْمُنْتَصِرِیْنَ(۸۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Then We caused him and his home to sink into the earth; so he had no group to help save him from Allah; nor could he take revenge. (Part 20, Surah Al-Qasas, Ayah 81)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed the frightful and dreadful end of unfortunate Qaroon who denied Zakah and incurred the enmity towards blessed Rasool of Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ), due to having love for worldly wealth! Neither did his wealth benefit him nor his treasure, but rather he suffered torment along with his treasure. Through this parable, which has been mentioned in Surah Al-Qasas, not only do we know about the dreadful end of having love for the wealth of the world, but it also clarifies the importance of Zakah.

Obligation of Zakah

Remember! Paying Zakah has also been made obligatory for the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . In Ayah 43 of Surah Al-Baqarah part 1, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ اَقِیْمُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتُوا الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And establish (obligatory) Salah, and give Zakah. (Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 43)

Regarding this blessed Ayah, Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated in Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan: The obligation of Salah and Zakah has been mentioned in this Ayah.

Dear Islamic sisters! Zakah is one of the pillars of Islam. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Islam is based on five things:

1 To testify that there is none worthy of worship, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) is His Rasool.

2 To offer Salah

3 To pay Zakah

4 To perform Hajj

5 To observe Siyam of Ramadan.

(Sahih Bukhari, Kitab-ul-Iman, vol. 1, pp. 14, Hadees 8)

The significance of Zakah can be judged by the fact that Zakah and Salah have been mentioned together 32 times in the Holy Quran.

(Rad-dul-Muhtar, Kitab-uz-Zakah, vol. 3, pp. 202)

Importance of Zakah

Dear Islamic sisters! No matter how economically developed a country is, it surely has a class [of people] that live in poverty due to various reasons. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has assigned the responsibility of such people to the wealthy. Therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made Zakah obligatory on the wealthy so that they help the weak and poor people of the society through their Zakah and their wealth also circulates to the poor instead of being restricted to just a few people, thus maintaining a balance of the economic condition in the society. Remember! If Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wanted, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would make everybody rich and no one would be poor, but by His Divine will, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made some people rich and some poor, so that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ tests the rich by her wealth and the poor by her poverty. In Ayah 165 of Surah Al-An’aam, part 8 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ هُوَ الَّذِیْ جَعَلَكُمْ خَلٰٓىٕفَ الْاَرْضِ وَ رَفَعَ بَعْضَكُمْ فَوْقَ بَعْضٍ دَرَجٰتٍ لِّیَبْلُوَكُمْ فِیْ مَاۤ اٰتٰىكُمْؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And it is He Who made you vicegerents in the earth and has raised one over the other in degrees amongst you, in order that He may test you with what He has bestowed upon you.

(Part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 165)

i.e., make you undergo test and trials to see how grateful you are after gaining a blessing, high status and wealth and how you mutually treat each other. (Khazaain-ul-‘Irfan, part 8, Taht-al-Ayah 165)

It has become obvious that the world is a house of tests and trials, so we should act upon every commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ happily by considering it to be a privilege for ourselves and accumulate abundance of reward for our Hereafter. Moreover, Zakah is such an act of worship which has abundant benefits and virtues for the world and the Hereafter. Let’s listen to fifteen benefits of paying Zakah and make its significance stronger in our hearts.

1. Source of completion of Iman

The first good privilege a Zakah-paying person gets is that it brings about the completion of her Iman. Let’s listen to 2 blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about it.

1 The completion of your Islam is that you pay Zakah of your possessions.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, Kitab-us-Sadaqat, vol. 1, pp. 301, Hadees 12)

2 The one who has Iman [faith] upon Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), for him it is necessary to pay Zakah of his wealth.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 12, pp. 324, Hadees 13561)

2. Abundant Divine mercy

The second privilege a Zakah-paying person attains is that she gets abundant Divine mercy. In Ayah 156 of Surah Al-A’raf, part 9, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ رَحْمَتِیْ وَ سِعَتْ كُلَّ شَیْءٍؕ-فَسَاَكْتُبُهَا لِلَّذِیْنَ یَتَّقُوْنَ وَ یُؤْتُوْنَ الزَّكٰوةَ وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ بِاٰیٰتِنَا یُؤْمِنُوْنَۚ(۱۵۶)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And My mercy encompasses all things; so I shall soon prescribe favours for those who fear and pay Zakah and believe in Our signs. (Part 9, Surah Al-A’raf, Ayah 156)

3. Attainment of piety and abstinence

The third benefit of paying Zakah is that by paying Zakah a person becomes pious. Another sign out of the signs of pious people which has been stated in Ayah 3 of Surah Al-Baqarah, part 1 is that:

وَ مِمَّا رَزَقْنٰهُمْ یُنْفِقُوْنَؕ(۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And spend in Our cause from what We have bestowed upon them. (Part 1, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 3)

4. The path of success

The fourth benefit of Zakah is that the person is included in the list of successful people as paying Zakah is also termed as one of the blessed acts of successful people in the Holy Quran: From Ayah 1 to 4 of Surah Al-Mu`minoon, part 18, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

قَدْ اَفْلَحَ الْمُؤْمِنُوْنَۙ(۱) الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ فِیْ صَلَاتِهِمْ خٰشِعُوْنَۙ(۲) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ عَنِ اللَّغْوِ مُعْرِضُوْنَۙ(۳) وَ الَّذِیْنَ هُمْ لِلزَّكٰوةِ فٰعِلُوْنَۙ(۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Successful indeed are the believers those who humbly cry in their prayers and who do not incline towards indecent matters and who pay the (obligatory) charity.

(Part 18, Surah Al-Mu`minoon, Ayah 1 to 4)

5. Deserving of Divine help

The fifth virtue is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ helps the one who pays Zakah. In Ayah 40, 41 of Surah Al-Hajj, part 17, it is stated:

وَ لَیَنْصُرَنَّ اللّٰهُ مَنْ یَّنْصُرُهٗؕ-اِنَّ اللّٰهَ لَقَوِیٌّ عَزِیْزٌ(۴۰) اَلَّذِیْنَ اِنْ مَّكَّنّٰهُمْ فِی الْاَرْضِ اَقَامُوا الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَوُا الزَّكٰوةَ وَ اَمَرُوْا بِالْمَعْرُوْفِ وَ نَهَوْا عَنِ الْمُنْكَرِؕ-وَ لِلّٰهِ عَاقِبَةُ الْاُمُوْرِ(۴۱)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And indeed Allah will assist the one who helps His religion; indeed surely Allah is Almighty, Dominant. The people who, if We give them control in the land, would keep the prayer established and pay charity and enjoin virtue and forbid from evil; and for Allah only is the result of all works. (Part 17, Surah Al-Hajj, Ayah 40, 41)

6. Making Muslims happy

The sixth benefit is that by paying Zakah the needs of the poor are fulfilled and they become happy. Remember, to make a Muslim happy also brings a great reward. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: In the Sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the most superior deed after performing the obligatory acts is to make happiness enter the heart of a Muslim.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 59, Hadees 11079)

7. Beauty of Islamic society

The seventh virtue is that the act of paying Zakah is the beauty of the Islamic society because a rich Muslim encourages poor Muslims to live their life with respect and honour in the society by paying Zakah to them. Furthermore, a poor person stays safe from having the spiritual diseases like malice and jealousy because she knows that she also has a right in the wealth of a rich Muslim, therefore, she makes Du’as for the blessings in the life, wealth and children of her fellow Muslim. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Undoubtedly, a Mu`min is like a building for another Mu`min; one strengthens the other.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 181, Hadees 481)

8. Strong brotherhood

The eighth benefit is that Zakah plays a very important role in developing a strong brotherhood amongst Muslims, promoting unity in the Islamic society and Muslims become the evidence of the blessed saying of the Beloved

Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by their mutual cooperation: The example of Muslims’ mutual friendship, mercy and affection is like a body; when any part of the body gets sick, the whole body feels it during fever and sleeplessness.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1396, Hadees 2586)

9. Wealth becomes purified

The ninth benefit that the Zakah-paying person receives is that it purifies her wealth; as it is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that the Noblest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Pay Zakah of your wealth as it is a purifier, it will purify you.’ (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 4, pp. 274, Hadees 1239)

10. Getting rid of evil qualities

The tenth benefit is that Zakah not only purifies the wealth, but also bestows purity to one’s Nafs [inner-self] as well. It rids the Nafs from the evil qualities like greed and miserliness. The Glorious Quran condemns miserliness in part 4, Surah Aal-e-Imran, Ayah 180 in the following words:

وَ لَا یَحْسَبَنَّ الَّذِیْنَ یَبْخَلُوْنَ بِمَاۤ اٰتٰىهُمُ اللّٰهُ مِنْ فَضْلِهٖ هُوَ خَیْرًا لَّهُمْؕ-بَلْ هُوَ شَرٌّ لَّهُمْؕ-سَیُطَوَّقُوْنَ مَا بَخِلُوْا بِهٖ یَوْمَ الْقِیٰمَةِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And never must those who act miserly upon what Allah has bestowed upon them of His grace, think that it is good for them; in fact it is harmful for them; soon what they had withheld will be collars round their necks on the Day of Resurrection.

(Part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 180)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

11. Blessing in wealth

The eleventh benefit of Zakah is that the wealth of the Zakah-paying person does not decrease, rather it increases. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says in Glorious Quran, part 22, Surah Saba, Ayah 39:

وَ مَاۤ اَنْفَقْتُمْ مِّنْ شَیْءٍ فَهُوَ یُخْلِفُهٗۚ-وَ هُوَ خَیْرُ الرّٰزِقِیْنَ(۳۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whatever you spend in the way of Allah, He will recompense you with more. And He is the Best of the providers.

(Part 22, Surah Saba, Ayah 39)

And it is stated in part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 261-262:

مَثَلُ الَّذِیْنَ یُنْفِقُوْنَ اَمْوَالَهُمْ فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِ كَمَثَلِ حَبَّةٍ اَنْۢبَتَتْ سَبْعَ سَنَابِلَ فِیْ كُلِّ سُنْۢبُلَةٍ مِّائَةُ حَبَّةٍؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ یُضٰعِفُ لِمَنْ یَّشَآءُؕ-وَ اللّٰهُ وَاسِعٌ عَلِیْمٌ(۲۶۱) اَلَّذِیْنَ یُنْفِقُوْنَ اَمْوَالَهُمْ فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِ ثُمَّ لَا یُتْبِعُوْنَ مَاۤ اَنْفَقُوْا مَنًّا وَّ لَاۤ اَذًىۙ-لَّهُمْ اَجْرُهُمْ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْۚ-وَ لَا خَوْفٌ عَلَیْهِمْ وَ لَا هُمْ یَحْزَنُوْنَ(۲۶۲)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: The example of those who spend their wealth in Allah’s way is similar to that of a grain which has sprouted seven stalks and in each stalk is a hundred grains; and Allah may increase it still more than this, for whomever He wills; and Allah is Most Able, All Knowing. Those who spend their wealth in Allah’s way and thereafter do not express favour nor cause injury (hurt the recipient’s feelings), their reward is with their Lord; there shall be no fear upon them nor shall they grieve.

(Part 3, Surah Al-Baqarah, Ayah 261-262)

Dear Islamic sisters! We have learned that one should whole heartedly pay Zakah having a firm belief that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant her a better recompense. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Sadaqah does not cause reduction in wealth.’ (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 619, Hadees 2270)

Apparently, by giving Zakah, wealth seems to be getting reduced, but in real fact, it continues increasing; like a tree that seems to have fewer branches apparently after pruning, but it [the pruning] brings about its growth.

The renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The one who pays Zakah will find his Zakah increasing each year. This has been experienced. The farmer disperses all his grains over the field, it apparently seems that he returns with empty sacks of grains, but in real fact, he will ultimately be filling them in abundance. The grains stockpiled in sacks at homes deteriorate due to attacks by weevils or mice etc. Or it implies that spend from the wealth from which Sadaqah is being given, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ it will keep increasing. When you keep filling up water from a well, the volume [of water] will continue to rise.’

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 3, pp. 93)

12. Protection from the evil of wealth

The twelfth benefit of Zakah is that whoever pays Zakah becomes safe from the evil of the wealth. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever has paid the Zakah of his wealth, indeed the evil effect of it [the wealth] has been removed from him.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 431, Hadees 1579)

13. Cause of protection of wealth

The thirteenth benefit of Zakah is that it is a cause of protection of wealth; as the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Protect your possessions in strong forts by paying its Zakah and treat your sick with charity’. (Maraseel Abi Dawood, pp. 8)

14. Fulfilling the needs

The fourteenth benefit of Zakah is that, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will fulfil the needs of the Zakah payers. Listen to two blessed sayings of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this connection:

1 Whoever provided ease for a needy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will create ease for him in the world and Hereafter. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1447, Hadees 2699)

2 Whoever relieves a Muslim from a worldly trouble, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remove the trouble of the Day of Judgment from him.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 3,pp. 115)

15. One gets the Du’as

The fifteenth benefit is that one gets the Du’as of the poor which help her attain the Divine mercy and help of Allah Almighty. As the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah, the Owner of Jannah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘You gain the Divine help of Allah Almighty and sustenance through the blessings and Du’as of the poor.’

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 280, Hadees 2896)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Zakah was made Fard in the second Hijri before the Siyam. (Durr-e-Mukhtar, Kitab-uz-Zakah, vol. 3, pp. 202)

When Zakah was made Fard, the rich blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would pay Zakah of their possessions whole heartedly and with a great enthusiasm. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable in this regard.

Passion of the Sahabah Kiraam

Sayyiduna Ubay Bin Ka’b رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ narrated: Once the Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sent me to collect Zakah. I visited a man. When he gathered all his possessions in front of me, I found out that a one year old she-camel was due upon him. I said to him, ‘Your payment is a one year old she-camel, for it is the Zakah of these camels to be paid by you.’ He said, ‘A one year old she-camel will not be of any use. It can neither be used for milking, nor for riding. Here is another she-camel which is strong and healthy. Take this one as my Zakah.’ I said to him, ‘I will not take any such thing for which I have not been commanded; however, the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is close by. If you like, go to the blessed court of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

and present it to him yourself. If he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم accepts it from you, I will take it; if he rejects it, I will not take it.’ He said, ‘All right.’

He accompanied me and took the she-camel with him. When we approached the blessed court of the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he humbly said, ‘O Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, your bearer came to me to collect Zakah of my possessions. I swear by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that never before have I had this privilege that you or your bearer saw my possessions. I gathered all my camels in front of your bearer, and he estimated that a one year old she-camel would be payable by me, but it does not produce milk nor can it be ridden. So I presented him a young and healthy she-camel for the acceptance of Zakah but he refused to take her. O Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, I have brought her in your blessed court, please accept it.’

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘That is what is due upon you; however, if you want to give an older she-camel at your will, then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will reward you for it. We accept her from you.’ He humbly said, ‘O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, this is that very she-camel which I have brought with me. Please accept her.’ The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then gave the permission to take it, and prayed for blessings in his possessions.

(Sunan Abu Dawood, vol. 2, pp. 148, Hadees 1583)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you observed the great and deep passion of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم to pay Zakah that they would present the most excellent possessions in the path of Allah Almighty and would deem it to be a privilege for them; but alas! On the other hand, our condition is such that a majority of us do not pay their Zakah at all, let alone paying it whole heartedly. Remember that the Holy Quran conveys a severe warning for those who do not pay Zakah, as it is stated in part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 34:

وَ الَّذِیْنَ یَكْنِزُوْنَ الذَّهَبَ وَ الْفِضَّةَ وَ لَا یُنْفِقُوْنَهَا فِیْ سَبِیْلِ اللّٰهِۙ-فَبَشِّرْهُمْ بِعَذَابٍ اَلِیْمٍۙ(۳۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And those who hoard up gold and silver and do not spend it in Allah’s way – so give them the glad tidings of a painful punishment. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 34)

Listen to two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم containing warnings for those who do not pay Zakah:

1 First of all, three people will enter the Hell; one among them is also the wealthy person who does not fulfil the right (Zakah) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2 If a person is the owner of gold or silver and does not fulfil its right (i.e., Zakah), then the flat slabs of rock or metal of fire would be laid down for him on the Day of Judgement which would be heated in the fire of Hell and his sides, forehead and back would be cauterized with them. When these [slabs] will cool down, they will be made the same [i.e. hot]. (This process will continue) on the day which is fifty thousand years long until Judgement is pronounced among the bondmen. Now he will see his path, whether he is to go to the Heaven or Hell. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 491, Hadees 987)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’—one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! In order to develop the passion for giving Sadaqah and charity with sincerity, to relish the taste of worship and to refrain from other sins, participate profusely in the 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah by associating with the Madani environment of the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami. Out of the 8 Madani activities, one Madani activity is participating in ‘weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ this Madani activity results in many worldly and Hereafter benefits.

٭ By the blessings of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ Islamic sisters get the opportunity to meet Islamic sisters and greeting them with Salam by acting upon Sunnah.

٭ By the blessings of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ the Madani pearls enriched with knowledge of Deen are spread amongst the Ummah.

٭ The weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ is highly effective in making the non-Salah offering Islamic sisters offer Salah with punctuality.

٭ By the blessings of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami gets propagated.

٭ The Sunnah-inspiring speeches on the blessed biographies of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, blessed Sahabah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُم and blessed Awliya رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی are delivered in the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat.

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima.

I found right path

It is a summary of an account given by an Islamic sister from Punjab, Pakistan: Our family was divided into different groups, each with its own religious creed. I was very worried and desperately wanted to know the right path. I used to pray to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enable me to follow the right path.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My prayer was answered. One day some Islamic sisters invited me to attend the Islamic sisters’ weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, the global and non-political religious movement for the preaching of Quran and Sunnah. Accepting their invitation, I attended the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ in which an Islamic sister delivered a speech from Faizan-e-Sunnat . The speech made me tremble with Divine fear. I was further inspired by the Du’a, Salat and Salam and the sincere manner in which the Islamic sisters met me.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! By the blessing of attending the Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, the belief that the doctrine of Ahl-us-Sunnah is truthful was bestowed upon me. I also started offering the five daily Salah and observing the fast of Ramadan. In this way, I continued to gather the blessings of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. By the time of the writing of this account, I am busy making efforts as responsible for a Tahseel, spreading the ‘call to righteousness’ among other Islamic sisters.

Note: If yo u have also experienced any blessings or Madani parable, please submit it to the Madani Bahar Maktab in the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]

Dear Islamic sisters! As Dawat-e-Islami is bringing Muslims towards the righteous deeds all across the world, at the same time, the Majlis ‘Shu’bah Ta’leem [Education Department]’ has been established to propagate the message of Dawat-e-Islami among the people associated with all the government and private schools, colleges, universities and different educational institutes. The basic purpose of this Majlis is to give Islamic sisters associated with these institutions the Madani mindset of leading their lives according to Sunnah while associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

This majlis creates relationships with teachers and students of colleges and universities with good intentions and makes them acquainted with the Sunnahs of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, it starts Madani In’amaat in the educational institutions; it enriches the future of the country [i.e. the students] with the treasure of the teachings of Holy Quran. Furthermore, it makes profound efforts for their religious and moral development. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, thousands of Islamic sisters associated with this department have repented of their sins and become punctual on offering Salah and acting upon the Sunnahs. May Allah Almighty bless all departments of Dawat-e-Islami with progression! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Madani pearls about contentment

Two blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ Contentment is an endless treasure. (Az-Zuhd-ul-Kabeer, pp. 88, Hadees 104)

٭ Undoubtedly, he is successful who has accepted Islam, who has been provided sufficiently for his needs and been made satisfied by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with what He has given him. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 524, Hadees 1054)

٭ When a person, being content with whatever she receives from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, lives her life and refrains from being greedy, this is called contentment. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 136)

٭ To be content even without the things used in everyday life is also contentment. (At-Ta’reefat lil-Jurjaani, pp. 126)

٭ Remember, real wealth does not mean that a person has plenty of wealth, but real wealth is this that a person has less wealth but he is content with it.

٭ Sayyiduna Musa Kaleemullah عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّنَا وَعَـلَيْهِ الصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَام humbly said to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ)! Who is the wealthiest person among your bondsmen? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, ‘That person who is the most contented with the blessings blessed to him by Me.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 61, pp. 139, Raqm 7741)

٭ The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Wealth does not mean the abundance of possessions, rather, real wealth is richness of the heart. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 233, Hadees 6446)

٭ Remember! One will be granted as much sustenance as is destined for him by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Therefore, it is useless to have greed for more.

