Muballighah must read the Bayan at least 3 times before delivering speech

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Curse of Sins

Along with punishments for committing sins in Ramadan

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

Please note that this speech was originally written for Islamic brothers, we have done necessary changes for Islamic sisters. It may be possible that some words could have been remained unchanged! If so, Muballighah should change the wordings accordingly at the time of delivering this speech. (Majlis-e-Tarajim)

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Jabir Bin ‘Abdullah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who finds Ramadan but does not observe Siyam, is unfortunate; the one who has both his parents or any one of them but does not treat them well, is unfortunate; the one who hears me being mentioned but does not recite Salat, is unfortunate.

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 3, pp. 340, Hadees 4773)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

1 Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

2 The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward she will attain.

Note: ​ The intentions mentioned below can be modified as per situation.

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to the religious discourse.

3 I will make room for other Islamic sisters by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply in low voice with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After Ijtima, I will take the lead to say Salam and shake hands and make individual effort.

6 During the speech, I will avoid the unnecessary use of mobile phone.

7 Neither will I record the speech, nor any kind of voice as it is not permitted.

8 Whatever I listen I will act upon it and later on convey it to others. In this way, I will be privileged to propagate the call towards righteousness.

Blessed speech of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Salman Farsi رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: On the last day of the month of Sha’ban the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم delivered a Bayan: ‘O people! An

auspicious and blessed month has approached you. In this month, there is a night that is better than a thousand months. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has made it Fard to observe Sawm in this sacred month. To offer (Taraweeh Salah) in its nights is Sunnah. If you do a good deed in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out a Fard act in any other month and if you perform a Fard act in this month, it will be equivalent to carrying out 70 Fard acts in any other month. This is the month of patience whose reward is Heaven. This is the month of sympathy, and the believer’s sustenance is increased in this month.

In this month, the one who serves a fasting person with something to do Iftar, will be forgiven for his sins and his neck will be freed from the fire of Hell, and he will be rewarded the same as the one who fasted, without any reduction in the reward of the fasting person.’ The companions asked humbly, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Not all of us possess enough money (to present a meal to the fasting person) for Iftar.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will give this reward to the one who offers a sip of milk, a date or a sip of water to the fasting person, and the one who serves the fasting person with a meal so that his stomach is full will be given water from my pond (Kawsar) such that he will never feel thirsty and will enter Heaven.

The first ten days of this month are mercy, the middle ten days are forgiveness and its last ten days are freedom from the fire of Hell. One who treats his slave leniently in this month (by not burdening him with heavy duties) will be forgiven and freed from the fire of Hell. In this month, there are four things which you should do in abundance, two of them will earn the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for you, and you cannot do without the other two. The two which will earn you the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are:

1 To testify that there is none worthy of worship other than Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

2 To ask for forgiveness.

The two which you cannot do without are:

1 To ask Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for Heaven.

2 To seek refuge of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from Hell.

(Sahih Ibn Khuzaymah, vol. 3, pp. 191, Hadees 1887)

Dear Islamic sisters! We are very fortunate that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has once again blessed us with the sacred month of Ramadan. As the blessed month arrives, the doors of mercy are opened by the grace and mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and a large number of Muslims are forgiven. Therefore, we should be very happy upon its arrival and do preparation in advance to welcome it. Through the blessed Hadees that has just been mentioned, the mercy, blessings and greatness of the sacred month of Ramadan can be judged very well. As we have just heard that the reward for the Nafl acts of worship is given equal to the reward of Fard (obligatory) acts and the reward for the Fard act is given equal to the reward of 70 Fard acts. Similarly, the Muslims who serve Iftari meals to Sawm-observing Muslims are also forgiven and the sustenance of a believer is also increased. In addition, many other countless mercies and blessings are also received during this blessed month. We, therefore, should also give lots of Sadaqah and charity during this sacred month and perform more and more acts of worship, especially we should recite blessed Kalimah in a large number and make Istighfar again and again, that is, we should [try] to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by making repentance abundantly. We should make Du’as as much as possible in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for entering Paradise and seeking protection from Hell. For the sake of the month of Ramadan, may the Merciful Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grant the glad tidings of salvation from Hell to us, the sinners.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! The way performing virtuous deeds during the blessed month of Ramadan is a great privilege, in the same way, committing sins also brings great loss. In fact, during this month we should worship abundantly to please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but unfortunately, there are some people who do not refrain from sins even during this month. Neither do they take care of Salah, nor of Siyam, but rather commit the sins of watching films and dramas, telling lies, commit backbiting, tale-telling and many other types of sins. Similarly, in the blessed nights of the blessed month of Ramadan, many young men play cricket, football etc., in the streets and make plenty of noises, thus depriving themselves of worship and also causing troubles to others; they neither perform worship themselves, nor let others do so. Such types of sports make

a person heedless of the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Righteous people also keep themselves away from such sports. They do not even watch such sports and frolics let alone playing them; they even do not listen to the commentary of such sports. We, therefore, should always stay away from such activities and should not especially waste the blessed moments of the sacred month of Ramadan at all in this way. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 927)

Dear Islamic sisters! Very severe punishments have been mentioned for those who ruin the sanctity of the blessed month of Ramadan. Let’s listen to them and learn a lesson.

One who commits sins in Ramadan

Sayyidatuna Umm-e-Haani رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم warned, ‘My Ummah will not be disgraced as long as it fulfils the rights of Ramadan.’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked as to what was meant by the disgrace of Ummah in this matter, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘Committing sins in this month.’

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has further stated, ‘If anyone fornicates or drinks alcohol in this month Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and all His angels curse him, if he dies before the next Ramadan he will not have a single virtue to save him from the fire of Hell. So fear (Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) concerning Ramadan. As the reward of good deeds is increased in this month compared to other months, the severity of sins also increases.’ (Al-Mu’jam-us-Sagheer, vol. 9, pp. 60, Hadees 1488)

تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَى اللّٰه اَسۡتَغۡفِرُ اللّٰه

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O those who do not give importance! Beware!

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed the extent to which the people who ruin the sanctity of this blessed month are being warned in this blessed Hadees! Therefore, tremble with fear and protect yourself from underestimating the month of Ramadan. If we want to stay safe from disgrace, we will have to

respect and revere Ramadan. The way virtues are increased during this blessed month as compared to other months, similarly, the punishments for sins are also increased as compared to other months. During the month of Ramadan, those who fornicate and drink wine are such unfortunate who will not have any virtuous deeds that could save them from the fire of Hell if they die before the next Ramadan.

Be careful, be careful, be careful! During the month of Ramadan, protect yourself especially from unlawful gazing. Observe Qufl-e-Madinah of eyes as far as possible, that is, make a great effort to keep your eyes lowered. Alas! Sometimes even Salah-offering and Sawm-observing people also suffer torment of fire by incurring the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after disrespecting the month of Ramadan.

Black spot on heart

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: When a person commits a sin, a black spot forms on his heart. When he commits a sin second time, second black spot forms and it continues until his heart gets black. As a result, thing of goodness does not affect his heart. (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansoor, vol. 8, pp. 446)

Now obviously the person whose heart has gone rusty and black, how will the words of goodness and advice affect her? Whether it is the month of Ramadan or not, for such a person it is extremely difficult to abstain or detest sins; she does not turn towards the virtuous deeds. If she starts performing virtuous deeds, so she often does not take interest in the virtuous deed due to the same blackness and plans to escape from the Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment. The Nafs of this unfortunate person gives her high hopes; she becomes heedless and then gets away from Sunnah-inspiring Madani environment.

Cure for the blackness of heart

Dear Islamic sisters! The cure for this blackness of the heart is necessary and an effective way of its cure is also a perfect spiritual guide, that is, to become the follower of a saintly person who is pious and the embodiment of Sunnah, who reminds you of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم when

you see him, whose words inspire the yearning for Salat and Sunnah, whose company increases the passion for the preparation of death and the Hereafter. If you have such a perfect spiritual guide, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ your blackness of the heart will surely be cured. (Faizan-e-Sunnat, pp. 920)

It is a special blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He creates His pious saints to reform the Ummah of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every era; they through their wisdom and spiritual insight make efforts to give this mind-set to people, ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. At present, an example of a perfect spiritual guide is Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه whose spiritual sight has brought Madani transformation in the lives of hundreds of thousands of Muslims especially young ones. For the Islamic sisters, who are not Mureed of any spiritual guide yet, a humble piece of advice is that: For the goodness of the world and the Hereafter, become Mureed of the great saint of the spiritual order of Qadiriyyah, Razawiyyah of this era and a great scholarly and spiritual personality, Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . Surely, there is no aspect of disadvantage of becoming Mureed, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will get only benefits in both the worlds. One never knows when he will glance a spiritual sight to us only once and all the dirt of our inside and outside and all the blackness of our heart and thoughts will get removed.

Remember! It will not be allowed to say at all about a person who you see committing sins all the time that her heart has been sealed or her heart has blackened, therefore, the call to righteousness does not affect her. Surely, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has the power to bless her with the privilege of making repentance by virtue of which she starts following the right path. Therefore, we should try to improve our inside and outside instead of trying to find out the secret of someone. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ remove the blackness of our heart! Aameen

Dear Islamic sisters! Listen to an admonitory parable about committing sins in Ramadan and tremble with Divine fear! The people, who do not abstain from playing cards, chess, ludo, video games, watching films and dramas, listening

to songs and music, etc., should especially learn an admonitory lesson from this parable.

Horrible scene of grave!

Once Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم went to a cemetery in Kufa to visit graves. Seeing a newly-prepared grave, he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ desired to get to know of its internal state, so he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ implored Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ humbly, ‘Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ reveal to me the condition of the deceased buried in this grave.’ Immediately, all the veils between him and the deceased were lifted. What he saw was a horrific scene; the deceased was being burnt in fire and screaming out for help from Sayyiduna ‘Ali رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ:

يَا عَلِيُّ! اَنَاغَرِيۡقٌ فِي النَّارِ وَ حَرِيۡقٌ فِي النَّارِ

O ‘Ali! I am drowned in fire and I am burning in fire.

The dreadful scene of the grave and the screams of the deceased person saddened Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم . He lifted his hands in the court of his merciful Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and began to pray with utmost humility for the forgiveness of the deceased. A voice from Ghayb echoed, ‘O ‘Ali (کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم)! Do not intercede for him as he used to disrespect Ramadan in spite of observing Sawm, he did not refrain from committing sins even in Ramadan, he used to observe Sawm during the day but would indulge in sins at night.’

Listening to this voice, Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم became even more sad; he رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ prostrated and began to cry. (With tears in his eyes) he said, ‘Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Please accept my supplication, this man has called out to me for help with high hopes, O Creator عَزَّوَجَلَّ do not disappoint me in front of him, have mercy on him and forgive this helpless man.’ Sayyiduna ‘Ali کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم continued to pray in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He then heard a voice say, ‘O ‘Ali (رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ)! We have forgiven him for the sake of your grieved heart.’ The man was then relieved of punishment.

(Anees-ul-Wa’izeen, pp. 25)

Dear Islamic sisters! This parable contains countless Madani pearls of admonition for us. A living person feels quite delighted, but when she dies and gets buried in the grave so that time her eyes open in reality instead of closing. Good deeds and the wealth she has given in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ benefit her, but the wealth she has left has almost no possibility of goodness for her. There is a little hope from the heirs that they may spend plenty of money for making their deceased’s Hereafter better.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

“Ghar Dars” (Home Dars) one of the 8 Madani activities

Dear Islamic sisters! Associate yourself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, in order to increase the passion for respecting Ramadan, to protect yourself from sins during Ramadan and rest of the months and to take interest in worship and spiritual exercises. Become the ones who take part actively in 8 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. Home Dars is one of the 8 activities of Zayli Halqahs.

To develop a Madani environment in home, deliver or listen to Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat at least once daily (without non-Mahram). Dars can also be delivered from the booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه (Duration 7 minutes). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by the blessings of Ghar Dars, Sawab (reward) of acquiring knowledge of Deen is attained. At the same time, Ghar Dars is a means to reform inner and outer manners and also serves as an excellent upbringing. Therefore, all Islamic sisters should make the intention to start Ghar Dars. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Home Dars for persuasion:

Started Home Dars

An Islamic sister from Attarwala (Burewala, district Vehari, Punjab) was drowned in the darkness of ignorance and did not make Shar’i Pardah either. Fortunately, someone presented her the renowned compilation of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه namely, ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ as a gift which she studied little by little and realized that it is an extremely interesting and

informative book. After this she started studying not only some pages of Faizan-e-Sunnat daily, but she would also tell them to her grandfather who would listen to them with deep concentration.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! After some period of time, she was privileged to observe the I’tikaf of the last ten days of blessed Ramadan at Masjid-e-Bayt and she intended to read Faizan-e-Sunnat from beginning to end during the I’tikaf. After offering Nawafil and reciting the Holy Quran she would get busy studying Faizan-e-Sunnat and would also carry out self-accountability. She had already been privileged to have the Bay’at of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه, but now she has made her mind to perform virtuous deeds and avoid sins by reading his effective writing. With the same enthusiasm, she started delivering Dars at home. By virtue of its blessing, Madani environment started taking place gradually at her home. She got rid of the curse of TV, started offering Salah regularly and making Shar’i Pardah. In this way, all of her family members associated themselves with Dawat-e-Islami and started acting upon Sunnah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had such a mercy on her that a preacher of Dawat-e-Islami married her in an extremely simple manner. Ijtima’ of Zikr and Na’at was also held at Valimah night. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat and forgive us for his sake!

If you have also attained any Madani parable or blessing through the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, submit it to Madani Bahaar Maktab at the end.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah

Dear Islamic sisters! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of devotees of Rasool, is busy serving Islam approximately in 104 departments. One of them is ‘Majlis Maktubat-o-Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah’ that is busy serving patients and distressed Islamic sisters. Every month approximately more than 400,000 Ta’wizat and Awraad-e-‘Attariyyah are distributed from this Majlis free of charge for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to 125,000 sick and distressed people.

Remember! The blessings of Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah [Ta’wizat for which Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat has given permission.] are not confined to only a specific area or city, but rather thousands of patients are given Ta’wizat ‘Attariyyah free of charge everyday.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

For passing time in the state of Sawm…

Dear Islamic sisters! Some such unwise people have been observed who though observe Sawm, but [feel that] their time does not pass. Therefore such people do not care for the respect of the blessed month of Ramadan and pass their time with the help of Haraam and impermissible acts by becoming busy playing chess, cards, ludo, listening to songs and music, etc.

Remember! If a bet is not placed on chess and cards, etc., even then these games are impermissible. Since cards contain the pictures of living beings, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written the act of playing cards to be absolutely Haraam. A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Ganjifah (a game that is played with cards and) cards are absolutely Haraam as in them there is reverence for the pictures along with sport and frolic. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 141) Similarly, playing chess is also impermissible. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, pp. 511)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! We should perform more and more virtuous deeds for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ instead of wasting time in sports and entertainments of the world because we have not been given this life for sports and frolic and for entertainment, but rather we have been given this life for performing such acts which please Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly, the world is sweet and green and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is about to give you its (the world’s) Khilafat; hence He sees what kind of deeds you perform.

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 357, Hadees 4000)

Hence remember! Everyone will get the fruit of her deeds after death; if she performs good deeds in the world, she will get its reward and if, Allah forbid, she spends her life committing sins after being deceived by Nafs and Satan, she will deserve the punishment of Hell. In Ayah 7 & 8 of Surah Az-Zilzaal, part 30 Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

فَمَنْ یَّعْمَلْ مِثْقَالَ ذَرَّةٍ خَیْرًا یَّرَهٗؕ(۷) وَ مَنْ یَّعْمَلْ مِثْقَالَ ذَرَّةٍ شَرًّا یَّرَهٗ۠(۸)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: So whoever does a good deed equal to an atom’s weight, will see it. And whoever does an evil deed equal to an atom’s weight, will see it.

Surely, wise is she in whose heart and mind the destruction of sins is firmly settled; she not only protects herself from them, but she also attains the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after performing virtuous deeds. But alas! The result of getting away from religion and lack of Islamic knowledge is in front of us as we can see that sins are being committed abundantly everywhere; wherever we see, we find that bad deeds and depravity are being committed, though not following the commandments of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will only bring about destruction and nothing else.

Ten disadvantages of sins

Dear Islamic sisters! Surely, advantages can never be gained from sins, but rather they only bring about disadvantages. Sins have great evil influence; their destruction can be judged by the following: Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna ‘Umar Bin Khattab رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: You do not get deceived at all by this saying of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ:

مَنْ جَآءَ بِالْحَسَنَةِ فَلَهٗ عَشْرُ اَمْثَالِهَاۚ-وَ مَنْ جَآءَ بِالسَّیِّئَةِ فَلَا یُجْزٰۤى اِلَّا مِثْلَهَا Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: For one who brings one good deed, for him there are ten like it; and one who brings an evil deed, he will not be recompensed but to its equal. (Part 8, Surah Al-An’aam, Ayah 160)

No matter if sin is only one, but it brings with itself 10 bad habits:

1 When a person commits a sin, he incurs the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and He [Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ] has the power to do it.

2 He (i.e. the one who commits a sin) pleases accursed Iblees.

3 He gets away from Paradise.

4 He gets close to Hell.

5 He hurts his most loving thing, that is, his own body.

6 He makes his inside impure, though it is pure.

7 He hurts the angels [Kiraman Katibeen] who write deeds.

8 He grieves the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in his blessed Raudah.

9 He makes the earth and the sky and all creation witness to his disobedience.

10 He acts perfidiously to all humans and disobeys Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Bahr-ud-Dumu’, chap. 2, pp. 30)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Everyone knows that sins harm the Hereafter, bring about the punishments of the torments of Hell and cause a person to suffer different types of torments in the grave, but remember; due to the curse of sins a person also suffers different types of great losses in the world. Some of them are as follows: (1) reduction in sustenance (2) suffering great misfortunes (3) reduction in age (4) deterioration of health after developing sudden weakness in the heart and sometimes in the whole body (5) deprival of acts of worship (6) having defects in intellect (7) being humiliated and disgraced in people’s eyes (8) reduction in the production of cultivated land and orchards (9) deprival of blessings (10) the heart being worried all the time (11) suffering from incurable diseases suddenly (12) being cursed by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, His angels, His Ambiya and His pious bondmen (13) face becoming dull because of losing the Noor of Iman [faith] (14) becoming shameless and

immodest (15) becoming disgraced, humiliated and unsuccessful everywhere, etc. (Jannati Zaywar, pp. 143)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s now listen to a few sins and their curse and destruction briefly and make a firm intention to protect ourselves from them. One of them is untruth. It is the bad habit due to which a liar has no place in the religion and the world. A liar is disgraced everywhere and loses respect and trust before every Majlis and every man. The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: A person is not a perfect believer unless he gives up telling a lie and quarrelling even in joke though he is truthful. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 3, pp. 268, Hadees 8638)

Similarly, one of the evil influences of backbiting is that it brings about bad end. The Du’a of the one who commits backbiting abundantly is not answered. A person loses the Nuraniyat [luminosity] of Salah and Sawm due to backbiting. The evil influence of backbiting can also be judged by the saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘ اَلْغِیْبَۃُ اَشَدُّ مِنَ الزِّنَا ’ i.e. Backbiting is a bigger sin than fornication. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 331, Hadees 24)

Similarly, due to tale-telling families are destroyed, strained relations, hatred and malice are bred with one another and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like such a person either. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The righteous bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are the ones by seeing whom we are reminded of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and bad bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are the ones who commit tale-telling, separate friends from each other and find fault with righteous people. (Al-Musnad Imam Ahmad Bin Hanbal, vol. 6, pp. 291, Hadees 18020)

Like tale-telling abusing others also breed Fitnah (discord) and riot and hatred with one another. It also brings about much bloodshed, quarrels and lots of destruction. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: To abuse a Muslim is similar to putting yourself in destruction. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 3, pp. 377, Hadees 4363)

Similarly, jealousy is also an extremely bad habit and a great sin. A jealous person lives her entire life feeling jealous and does not attain peace and comfort. Jealousy eats up virtuous deeds as fire eats up wood. Similarly, if we see arrogance, we find that a person may suffer big losses like displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, displeasure of the creation, disgrace and humiliation in the plains of Hashr, deprival of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the gifts of Paradise and becoming deserving of Hell. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who has arrogance in his heart even equal to a black-mustard seed will not enter Paradise. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 60, Hadees 147)

Dear Islamic sisters! Have you noticed the evils which these sins breed in the society! Therefore, whether the sin is minor or major it is better to protect yourself from it. Sayyiduna Bilal Bin Sa’d رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said: Do not see that the sin is minor, but rather see whose disobedience you are committing. (Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol. 1, pp. 27)

So if we develop the Madani thought at the time of making intention to commit a sin that the Lord Whose disobedience I am committing is seeing me all the time in every state, so اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, we will get rid of sins to a great extent. Another best source of hating sins and getting rid of them is to associate yourself with any good environment. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, in today’s critical age, the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami is a great blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . You also remain associated with this fragrant Madani environment all the time. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will attain the goodness of the world and the Hereafter.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic sisters! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

Madani pearls regarding the reverence of Sadaat

Dear Islamic sisters! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about the reverence of Sadaat (blessed descendants of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). First, listen to the following two blessed sayings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Rasool of Rahmah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Whoever maintains good character with anyone from my Ahl-e-Bayt, I will give him the reward of this on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 533, Hadees 8821)

٭ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Whoever behaves well with any of the offspring of ‘Abdul Muttalib in the world, he has the right to receive its reward from me when he will meet me on the Day of Judgement.

(Tareekh Baghdad, vol. 10, pp. 102, Hadees 5221)

٭ The respect of noble Sayyids is Fard, and to disrespect them is Haraam. (Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 277)

٭ One of the demands of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to also love and respect all noble Sayyids.

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ reverence of Sadaat ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

Madani pearls regarding the reverence of Sadaat

٭ Reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also includes the fact that all those things that are associated to the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم should also be revered. (Ash-Shifa, Juz: 2, pp. 52; Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 8)

٭ For reverence, there is no need for certainty, nor any specific proof is required. Therefore, those who are called Sadaat shall be revered.

(Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 14)

٭ If any heretic claims to be a Sayyid and his heretic beliefs have reached the extent of disbelief [Kufr], then he will not be revered at all. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 17)

٭ Accursed is the one who is not Sayyid in reality but claims to be a Sayyid deliberately. Neither his Fard is accepted, nor his Nafl. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 16)

٭ Reverence of Sadaat is the reverence of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Fatawa Razawiyyah; Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 8)

٭ A teacher should also refrain from punishing a Sayyid. (Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 284)

٭ Sadaat can be employed at such jobs that have no element of disgrace in it. However, it is not permissible to employ them in disgraceful jobs. (Sadaat Kiraam ki ‘Azmat, pp. 12)

٭ To insult a Sayyid because he is a Sayyid is Kufr [disbelief]. (Kufriyah Kalimat kay baaray mayn Suwal Jawab, pp. 276)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

