اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Saintly-Miracles of Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحۡ ـ مَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَالٰي عَلَيۡه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

It is stated on page 251 of the 324 page book, ‘ 152 Rahmat Bhari Hikayaat ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e- Islami: ‘Sayyiduna Shaykh Husayn Bin Ahmad Kawwaaz Bistami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: I prayed to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to see Sayyiduna Abu Saalih Muazzin in my dream. My prayer was answered and I saw him in my dream in a very good condition. I asked him, ‘O Abu Saalih! Tell me something about you?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘I would have been destroyed if I had not recited Salat upon the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in abundance. (Sa’adat-ud-Daarayn, pp. 136)

اپنے خَطا واروں کو اپنے ہی دامَن میں لو کون کرے یہ بَھلا تم پہ کروڑوں دُرُود

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

2. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

3. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An- Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

4. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

5. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is to say, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

6. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘ Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat ’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

7. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

8. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

During the journey to India, when Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed by an area called Sabzwaar (presently called province Khurasan Razavi Iran), he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed in an orchard in the centre of which was a pond of crystal clear water. It was the orchard of the cruel ruler of Sabzwaar. He would come to his orchard, consume wine and after being intoxicated he would create great disturbances.

When Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz Sayyid Mu’eenuddin Hasan Sanjari Chishti Ajmayri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی started performing Wudu from the pond of this orchard in order to perform Nawafil (supererogatory prayers), the guards informed him of the cruelty of their ruler and requested that he leave this place lest the ruler might harm him. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is my Protector and Helper.’ In the meantime, the ruler of Sabzwaar entered the orchard and headed towards the pond. When he saw a mystic stranger (Sufi) at his place of luxury and pleasure, he flew into a rage, and before he could utter anything, the Eminent Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه just glanced towards him, causing his life to instantly change. The ruler could not endure the awe-inspiring presence of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and fell over unconscious. The servants sprinkled water on the ruler’s face. The moment he regained consciousness, he immediately fell at the feet of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and repented of his corrupt beliefs and sins and took the oath of spiritual allegiance on the blessed hand of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

By virtue of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz’s individual efforts, the ruler of Sabzwaar returned the entire wealth, which he accumulated unjustly and forcefully, to their real owners and stayed in the blessed company of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . After some time, having enriched him with spiritual blessings, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه granted him his Khilafat (spiritual succession) and then left that place. (Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 511)

دُنیا کی حکومت دو نہ دولت دو نہ ثَروت ہر چیز ملی جامِ مَحَبَّت جو پِلایا

قدموں سے لگا لو مجھے قدموں سے لگا لو خواجہ ہے زمانے نے بڑا مجھ کو ستایا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how eminent and glorious Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was! Indeed, this was his saintly-miracle that just by looking at a cruel and drunken person once, he completely changed that person’s life by him repenting of his corrupt beliefs and sins, and by virtue of Sayyiduna Khuwajah’s blessed company, the ruler included himself amongst the pious people.

اِستقامت مذہبِ اسلام پر مِل جائے کاش!

ہاتھ اُٹھا کر کر دُعا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Let’s listen to a brief biography of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz Mu’eenuddin Hasan Sanjari Chishti Ajmayri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی was born in 537 Hijri, at a place called ‘Sanjar’, an area in Iran. (Iqtibas-ul-Anwaar, pp. 345)

The blessed name of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is ‘Hasan’. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is a ‘Najeeb-ut-Tarafayn’ i.e., Hasani and Husayni ‘Sayyid’. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has a number of titles, but his most famous titles are

‘Mu’eenuddin’, ‘Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz’, ‘Sultan-ul-Hind’, ‘Waaris-un-Nabi’ and ‘Ata-e-Rasool’ etc. (Mu’een-ul-Hind Hazrat Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Ajmayri, pp. 18)

یا مُعینَ الدِّین اجمیری! کرم کی بھیک دو

از پئے غوث و رضا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The respected father of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Sayyid Ghiyasuddeen رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was amongst the rich chiefs of Sanjar. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was remarkably pious and gifted with miraculous powers. The Honourable mother of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, Bibi Mahnoor رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْهَا was also a woman of excellent character who would remain occupied with worship and spiritual exercises most of the time.

(Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 506)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lost his respected father at the early age of 15. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه inherited an orchard and a watermill which served as his means of livelihood, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would look after the orchard and water the trees himself.

(Mirat-ul-Asrar, pp. 593)

Dear Islamic brothers! This was the same orchard in which by virtue of respecting a saint Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he was blessed with a high rank of Wilayat (sainthood). As Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, founder of Dawat-e- Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 10 of his booklet ‘ Khofnak Jadugar ’ [Terrifying Magician]: Once, when Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی was watering the plants in his orchard, a pious Majzoob saint, Sayyiduna Ibraheem Qandauzi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, entered the orchard. As soon as Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saw this glorious personality, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه rushed towards him, leaving all the work aside, kissed his blessed hand and

made him sat with extreme respect under the shade of a tree and humbly presented him with a bunch of fresh grapes, and then sat on his knees. The saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ was very impressed by the great courtesy of this young man. Pleased with him, he took out a piece of oil cake from his side, chewed it, and then put it into the mouth of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . As soon as he swallowed the piece of oil cake, the state of his heart suddenly changed and he lost interest in the world. Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sold his water mill, orchard and all his goods and distributed the entire money amongst the poor and destitute and became a traveller in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the sake of acquiring Islamic knowledge. (Mirat-ul-Asrar, pp. 593)

اِستقامت مذہبِ اسلام پر مِل جائے کاش!

ہاتھ اُٹھا کر کر دُعا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sultan-ul-Hind, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه started travelling at the young age of 15 to acquire knowledge. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Sayyiduna Maulana Sharafuddin رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and formally started gaining Islamic knowledge in Samarqand. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه firstly memorized the whole Quran (Hifz-ul-Quran) and then acquired other branches of knowledge from him. (Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 508)

The more he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gained Islamic knowledge, the more he developed his yearning for it. So, in order to quench his thirst for knowledge, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to Bukhara and became the student of a renowned Islamic scholar, Maulana Husaamuddin Bukhari عَـلَيْـهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـبَارِی . In a short period of time, under Maulana Husaamuddin Bukhari’s affectionate guidance, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه succeeded in acquiring all the Islamic branches of knowledge which were customary at that time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed for 5 years in Samarqand and Bukhara to acquire knowledge. (Allah kay Khaas Banday, pp. 508)

During this period of time, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه succeeded in completing ‘ Uloom -e- Zaahiri (apparent branches of knowledge), but he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had yet to satisfy his yearning for which he left his home and family.

(Allah kay Khas Banday, pp. 508)

He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made preparations to travel from Bukhara to Hijaz in search of a perfect spiritual guide. On the way, when he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه passed by ‘ Haarwan ’ a suburban area of Nayshapur (Khurasan province, Iran), he heard about the fame of Mard -e- Qalandar, Qutb-ul-Waqt Sayyiduna Khuwajah ‘ Usman Haarwani Chishti عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه immediately went to him and became his disciple and entered the Chishtiyyah Sufi order. (Mirat-ul-Asrar, pp. 594)

In short, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه devoted his entire life to spread the blessed sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

تیری اُلفت میں جیوں تیری مَحَبَّت میں مَروں

ہو کرم ایسا شہا! خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was very pious, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned piety to be a sign of a saint of Islam. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اَلَاۤ اِنَّ اَوۡ لِیَآءَ اللہِ لَا خَوۡفٌ عَلَیۡہِمۡ

وَ لَا ہُمۡ یَحۡزَنُوۡنَ ﴿ۚۖ۶۲﴾ الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡا وَ کَانُوۡا یَتَّقُوۡنَ ﴿ؕ۶۳﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Listen carefully! No doubt, there is no fear nor any grief upon the friends of Allah. Those who believed and keep up their duty. (Part 11, Surah Yunus, verse 62-63)

Regarding the piety of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, it has been stated that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to be in Wudu all the time. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would often be lost in the remembrance of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, keeping his eyes closed. One can judge the yearning for recitation and pleasure for worship from this that everyday he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would complete one Quran in the day and one Quran in the night. Furthermore, upon the completion of every Quran, a voice from Haatif-e-Ghaybi would be heard that we have accepted your Quran that you have finished. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his nights in worship and days in observing fasts. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would only eat a little dry bread after soaking it in water in the evening. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه often offered Salat-ul-Fajr with the Wudu of Salat-ul-‘Isha. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was so simple that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would wear clothes with patches but they used to be neat and clean.

(Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 136)

دِل سے دُنیا کی محبت کی مصیبت دُور ہو

دیدو عشقِ مُصطَفٰے خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Having gained the blessings from Sayyiduna Khuwajah Usman Haarwani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, who was his spiritual guide, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, attained sainthood. With his spiritual guide’s permission, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then set off on a journey. Wherever he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed whilst on his journey, if he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became a little famous, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would leave that place. In this way, travelling through different places, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached Makkah Mukarramah. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stayed there for some days and then left for Madinah Munawwarah and was privileged to behold the blessed Raudah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then started residing near the blessed Raudah. One day, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم blessed him with this good news: ‘O Mu’eenuddin, you are the Mu’een (i.e. the helper of our religion (Islam),

the Wilayat (sainthood) of India has been granted to you; go to Ajmer, your presence will remove disbelief and the beauty of Islam will increase.’

(Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 142)

Sayyiduna Sultan-ul-Hind Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to Madina-tul-Hind in blessed Ajmer. Due to his constant efforts, a large number of people started embracing Islam.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In India, the worship of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had not been performed for ages. Cruelty, injustice, depriving people of their rights and massacres were considered honour and glory. So upon the command of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, when Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه arrived in India, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه fought against the dishonest forces in that strange environment and dangerous circumstances. Finally, his constant efforts produced a great effect and Islam spread everywhere in India.

Dear Islamic brothers! One should keep this thing in mind as well that when Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to India to spread Islam, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not bring any kind of huge army, arrows and swords or any type of weapons with him at all, rather he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه brought with him Islamic culture, good manners and a good character. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reformed the people through Quranic verses, blessed Ahadees and the sayings of the pious Muslim saints. In his blessed gatherings, people’s attention was focused on Shari’ah and Tareeqah, Haqiqat and Ma’rifah. In addition to this, they were given the Dars (lessons) of Faraaid and Sunnah, purity, truth and sincerity, fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and devotion to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as serving and loving the creation of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Once he was asked a question as to which good deed will save a person from the torment of Hell. He replied: ‘To help powerless people, to satisfy the needs of the needy and to feed the hungry. Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said

that the person who has three qualities will become a friend of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, viz. (1) generosity like the river (2) affection like the sun (3) politeness and humbleness like the earth.’ (Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 136)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

In addition to possessing many apparent and spiritual qualities, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an extremely honourable and glorious holy man and an elevated saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . By virtue of his blessing-filled gaze not only did many sinners repent of their sins, but millions of non-Muslims also embraced Islam. Let’s listen to some faith-refreshing saintly-miracles of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, but even before this, let us understand what the definition of a saintly-miracle is.

Defining Karamah in Bahar-e-Shari’at, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated: Anything contrary to the normal or usual that is performed by a saint, is called a Karamah (saintly-miracle).

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 58)

Furthermore, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: The saintly-miracle of Islamic saints is true and the denier of it is a deviant person. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 269)

‘Allamah Maulana Mufti ‘Abdul Mustafa A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If a pious true believer performs something very unusual and strange which is not performed normally, it is called a ‘Karamah’ (saintly-miracle). Similar things if performed by the Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام before their declaration of Prophethood, this is called ‘Irhaas’ and after their declaration of Prophethood it is called a ‘Mu’jizah (miracle)’. If the same thing is performed by ordinary true believers, it is called ‘Ma’oonat’ and if an unbeliever performs such an action as per his wish, it is termed as Istidraaj. (Karamaat-e-Sahabah, pp. 36)

Anything that is contrary to a normal thing, means that an action cannot be performed by any human normally such as flying in the air, walking on the water etc. because normally, neither can a person fly in the air (on his own) nor can he walk on the surface of the water. (Faizan Mazaraat-e-Awliya, pp. 46)

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Sa’duddeen Mas’ood Bin ‘Umar Taftazaani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: A Wali is that person who recognizes Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His attributes to a possible extent, performs worship regularly and prevents himself from every type of sins, pleasure and lust. (Sharh-ul-‘Aqaaid, pp. 313)

تُو اپنی ولایت کی خیرات دے دے مرے غوث کا واسطہ یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Now let’s listen to some faith-refreshing saintly-miracles of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

Once, a ruler hanged an innocent person. Weeping bitterly, the mother of the murdered person went to Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه for help and said: The ruler has unjustly executed my son. For Allah’s sake, help me. At that time, Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was performing Wudu. Having heard this request for help, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه took his blessed staff in hand and with this grieved mother went towards her murdered son. The disciples also went along with him to witness another saintly-miracle of his. When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه approached the murdered person, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stood silently for some time and kept looking at the dead body and then touching his neck with the staff, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: O innocent one! If you have really been killed unjustly, then by the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ become alive again. These words were just uttered when suddenly the dead body stood up and fell at the feet of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه allowed him to go with his mother and then said to his disciples that a true believer must have at least this relation with his Rab (Lord) that when he submits any request to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is accepted. (Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 142)

کاش! قِسمت سے مدینے میں شہادت پاؤں میں

ہاتھ اُٹھا کر کر دُعا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Another saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed him with the great blessing of hearing voices from a long distance. As he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is an intimate saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and whoever Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes His beloved, for the sake of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, it is not difficult anymore to hear voices or to see anything from near or far away.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘Whoever has enmity towards any saint of Mine, I declare war against him. None of My bondsmen seeks closeness to Me through offering Faraaid [obligatory acts] more than any other loving thing, and My bondsman continues to gain closeness to Me by means of Nawafil [optional Salah], until I make him My beloved. And when I make him My beloved, I become his ears through which he hears, I become his eyes through which he sees, I become his hands through which he holds and his legs through which he walks. If he begs Me, I grant him, and if he seeks My protection against anything, then I grant him protection.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 248, Hadees 6502)

Relating the meaning of this Hadees-e-Qudsi and the greatness of the rank of intimacy, Sayyiduna Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: When a person regularly performs good deeds, he attains an eminent status for which Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated that I become his ears and eyes (hands and legs),

meaning that when the Noor (luminosity) of Allah’s Jalaal enters the ears of that beloved bondsman, by virtue of this blessing that bondsman hears every voice whether it is from near or far away. When this Noor (luminosity) enters his eyes, he is able to see everything from near or far and the same Noor when it appears in the hands of this bondsman, he possess the power to perform even very difficult and amazing actions from near or far away.

(Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 7, pp. 436)

Let’s listen to a saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about hearing voices from near and far:

It is stated on page 67 of ‘ Ghaus-e-Pak kay Halaat ’ [Circumstances of the Blessed Ghaus], a 106-page book published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: When Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ stated, in sacred Baghdad:

قَدَمِيۡ هٰذِهِ عَلٰي رَقَبةِ كُلِّ وَلِيِّ اللّٰهِ

‘This foot of mine is on the neck of every saint of Allah .’

Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, in the prime of his youth, used to worship at that time on the mountains in Khurasan. Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ statement was uttered in blessed Baghdad and here in Khurasan, Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه lowered his head to such an extent that it reached the ground, and he then replied: بَلۡ قَدَمَاكَ عَلٰي رَاۡسِيۡ وَعَيۡنِيۡ ‘ rather, both your blessed feet are also on my head and eyes .’

جب سے تُو نے قَدَمِ غَوث لِیا ہے سَر پر

اَولِیا سَر پر قدم لیتے شاہا تیرا

نہ کیوں کر سَلطَنَت دونوں جہاں کی اُن کوحاصل ہو

سَروں پر اپنے لیتے ہیں جو تَلوَا غَوثِ اعظم کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to fill your heart with the glory and devotion of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, to receive the blessings of Islamic saints and to develop the passion for gaining and acting upon Islamic knowledge, associate yourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. Furthermore, take part in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah with great enthusiasm. One of these 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah is ‘Chowk Dars’ (Outside Dars). Those who enjoin people to do good and forbid them from committing evils through Dars and Bayan are great and glorious.

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلٰى نَبِـيِّـنَا وَ عَـلَيْـهِ الـصَّلٰوة ُ وَالـسَّلَام: Whoever enjoins to do good and forbids from evil and calls people towards My obedience, that person will be under the shade of My ‘Arsh on the Day of Judgment.

Hujjat-ul-Islam Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Enjoining to do good and preventing from evil is the Qutb-e-A’zam of religion (Islam) (i.e. it is the important pillar with which all aspects of Islam are associated). Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent all the Prophets عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام to accomplish this important task. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 2, pp. 377)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable of Chowk Dars for our persuasion:

The following summary is written by a twenty-year-old Islamic brother from the province of ‘Uttaranchal’, in India: ‘Due to bad company, I had been trapped in the world of crimes since I was fourteen. Drinking alcohol and following women were my hobbies. Then I started becoming rough, my habit was to argue and beat people up for no reason, even publically I became

known as Raana the bully. Despite being underage, I would make repeated attacks on my opponents, with no fear. I became notorious everywhere; people began to feel frightened of me. My parents were also displeased with me; however, they were helpless. My misdeeds were increasing day by day.

One day, I stopped and stood nearby, when I saw an Islamic brother with a green ‘Imamah delivering Dars at a street corner. I liked what I heard. Glancing at the book, I saw that the title ‘ Faizan-e-Sunnat ’ decorated on the cover. The Islamic brother who delivered the Dars met me individually and talked to me in a very graceful and polite manner and while making individual efforts upon me he invited me to travel with the Madani Qafilah. The inspiring Dars of Faizan-e-Sunnat had already caused a stir within my heart, and thus I accepted the invitation. I travelled to Janakpur with a 3-day Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah of lovers of the beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I was further privileged to travel with a 3-day Madani Qafilah to Jagannathpur.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, with the blessings of Chowk Dars and travelling in the Madani Qafilah, a Madani transformation took place within my heart. I repented of my sins committed in the past and made an intention to grow my beard. Please make Du’a to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for me to remain steadfast. My family is extremely pleased with my Madani transformation. My mother makes lots of Du’as for Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, my family and I have entered the Qadiriyyah Razawiyyah ‘Aaliyyah order (spiritual path), and have become Mureeds (disciples) of Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abdul Qaadir Jeelani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه .

بَخت کُھل جائیں گے، قافِلے میں چلو

جُرم دُھل جائیں گے، قافِلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Now let’s listen to a saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه by virtue of which many non-Muslims

embraced Islam and being in his service included themselves amongst the beloved bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Once some non-Muslims came to meet Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . When he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه just looked towards them, due to his awe-inspiring presence, they started shivering and their faces went pale. Inviting them to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to abstain from worshipping any except Allah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: As long as you do not worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you cannot get rid of the fire of Hell. A fire was blazing nearby, they then said: O Khuwajah! You worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, don’t you; if this fire doesn’t burn you, then we will embrace Islam. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: By the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ leave Mu’eenuddin, this fire will not even burn his shoe. Having said this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه placed his shoes into the fire and said: O fire! Protect the shoes of Mu’eenuddin. He only said this much when the fire went off and all the people present there heard a voice from the unseen, ‘The fire does not have the ability to burn my friend’s shoes.’ Having seen this faith-refreshing scene, all those non-Muslims recited the Kalimah and embraced Islam and became perfect saints, in his service. (Iqtibas-ul-Anwaar, pp. 354)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

When Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه came to blessed Ajmer, a city of India with his 40 of his disciples, they first made a camp outside the city in a plain under the shade of a tree. The camels of a non-Muslim king of Ajmer were sitting there, so upon the request of the servants of the king, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه left the place and went to ‘Ana Sagar’ a famous pond of Ajmer and took up residence there and got busy worshipping Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The supporters of the king troubled him over there as well, they developed such hatred for him that they mounted an attack with weapons. At that time, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was offering Salah.

After Salah, when the restless informed him about the attack, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه picked up a handful of dust, blew on it after reciting Ayat-ul-Kursi and threw

it towards those mischievous people. Whoever came in contact with the dust became powerless and fell down. When their companions saw this, they ran away in a fright and related all of this to one of their religious leaders and requested for help. First, he remained silent, then after some time he started saying that indeed a Derwaysh is a very respected holy man in his religion and is endowed with supernatural powers. Therefore, he can only be fought with magic. Then after teaching all of them a magic spell he told them to accompany him, and to utter that same magic spell. When they reached near Ana Sagar, they started uttering the magic spell whilst standing behind their religious leader. One of the Mureeds of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz saw them uttering a magic spell and informed Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Their false magic will definitely not work on us, instead, their religious leader will find the right path, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Saying this, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became occupied with Salah.

After completing his Salah, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked towards them. The moment he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did this, their religious leader started shivering and he began saying ‘Raheem Raheem’. When the non-Muslims heard this, they started to scold him, resulting in their own religious leader becoming angry and attacking his own followers with whatever came to hand. Due to this, they ran away to save their lives. Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and his disciples were standing silently at one side watching all of this. Then he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه sent a servant with a cup of water for that religious leader to drink. As he drank the water, the forces of darkness of unbelief and polytheism left his heart and he came running towards Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz ر َحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, falling down at his feet and embraced Islam. After embracing Islam, he humbly said to Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that after having seen his brilliant beauty, he was attracted. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Then for this reason, from today we name you ‘Shaadi’. (Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 143 to 144)

دِل سے دُنیا کی محبت کی مصیبت دُور ہو

دیدو عشقِ مُصطَفٰے خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

تیری اُلفت میں جیوں تیری مَحَبَّت میں مَروں

ہو کرم ایسا شہا! خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dear Islamic brothers! You must have noticed the glorious style of preaching of the saints of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . These dignitaries would remain patient even under very difficult and unfavourable conditions. They would continue to work towards their goal by cheerfully tolerating every difficulty that arose in the way of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness, spreading the knowledge of the Sunnah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and illuminating the world with the light of Islamic knowledge . اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the Madani message of Dawat-e-Islami has reached approximately 200 countries of the world and almost more than 100 departments have been setup to organize and coordinate the system of Dawat-e-Islami. ‘Majlis Mazaraat-e-Awliya’ is also one of these departments. The responsible Islamic brothers of this Majlis visit the blessed shrines of the pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی and carry out various Islamic services over there along with other Madani activities. For example, on the occasion of the ‘Urs, of a blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, they arrange an Ijtima’ of Zikr and Na’at, make arrangements for the stay of Madani Qafilahs of the lovers of the beloved Prophet in Masajid adjacent to the shrines, and in particular, they arrange Sunnah-inspiring Madani Halqahs in the courtyard of the shrine in which the method of Wudu, Ghusl, Tayammum, Salah, Isal-e-Sawaab etc., as well as the manners of visiting the shrines and the blessed Sunnah of Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are taught. Furthermore, people are persuaded to

attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat and weekly Madani Muzakarahs of Dawat-e-Islami. They are also persuaded to travel with the Madani Qafilahs and to act upon the Madani In’amaat.

During the ‘Urs, plenty of Isal-e-Sawaab is made to the blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه of that Mazaar. Efforts are also made, from time to time, to visit and inform the custodians (Mutawallis, Sajjadah Nasheens, Khulafa) of the services rendered by Dawat-e-Islami, Jami’a-tul-Madinah, Madaris-tul-Madinah and the Madani activities being carried out in foreign countries.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to one more saintly-miracle of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in which by giving his news of the Ghayb (hidden) revealed (in advance) the news of the downfall of a disbelieving ruler.

At the peak of his empire, the ruler of Ajmer started causing troubles for the Muslims. Due to the ruler’s unbelief and inflicting sufferings upon the Muslims, without any reason, once Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became angry and stated about him: If he does not abstain, he will be handed alive, to the army of Islam. This very thing then happened.

Sultan Shahabuddin Ghauri found himself in front of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in a dream and heard Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه saying: O Shahabuddin, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted the kingdom of India to you, therefore, come here and punish him. When Sultan Shahabuddin Ghauri awoke, he mentioned this dream before the dignitaries of his court, everyone then congratulated him for the victory of India. Then he along with his army marched towards India and reached Ajmer. Here he fought many battles against the Raja, resulting in the Raja

being defeated, and according to the statement of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه the Raja was arrested alive and then presented to Sultan Ghauri. (Seer-ul-Aqtaab, pp. 148)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

It has been narrated about Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that by virtue of his saintly-miracle, in a short part of night, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه used to go from blessed Ajmer, thousands of miles away to Makkah Mukarramah, there he would occupy himself in Tawaf of Holy Ka’bah the whole night and then before Fajr he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would return to his room.

It is sated on page 24 of ‘Faizan-e-Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz’, a 31-page booklet published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: Whenever any disciple of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was privileged to perform Haj or ‘Umrah, and went to perform Tawaf, then he would see Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also busy performing Tawaf of the Holy Ka’bah. On the other hand, his family members and other friends or dear ones in Ajmer would assume that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was in his Hujrah (private chamber). Finally, one day this secret was discovered that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه remained busy performing Tawaf of the Holy Ka’bah the whole night and returned to Ajmer in the morning and performed Salat-ul-Fajr with Jama’at. (Iqtibas-ul-Anwaar, pp. 373)

حج کی مل جائے سعادت سبز گنبد دیکھ لُوں

ہاتھ اُٹھا کر کر دُعا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Usually, when a person passes away, the benefits which are gained from him also come to an end, but the case of the intimate bondsmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is contrary to this. These holy people, not only in their apparent life benefit the creation of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and fulfil their wishes, but their act of granting and fulfilling the wishes of people continue even after their demise. The afflicted, grieved and helpless ones, people who wish to have children and those whose diseases have been declared incurable by doctors and Hakeems and thousands of other people who wish to get rid of sins come to their Aastanas (residences of the pious ones) and their needs are fulfilled.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Sayyiduna Mu’eenuddin Hassan Sanjari Chishti Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is also a great saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . As long as he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was alive, he continued to benefit the creation of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and today after several hundred years of his apparent demise, his door of blessing is still open to his devotees and followers in the same way as it was in his blessed life. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه is still dominating the hearts of the people today. Furthermore, by the command of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه bestows cure and help upon those who visit his luminous shrine.

یا مُعینَ الدِّین! آؤ اب مدد کے واسطے ہو کرم بدحال پر اے چشتیوں کے تاجدار

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to two more of his saintly-miracles:

The food would be so abundant at the blessed Aastanah (monastery) of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that the poor and the needy from all over the city would come and eat until they were satisfied. When the servant would make a request for expenses, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would lift the edge of his prayer mat beneath which, by the blessing of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, treasure was seen everywhere. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would ask his servant to take the required amount of money for that day’s Langer (food). The servant would then take accordingly. (Iqtibas-ul-Anwaar, pp. 376)

جھولیاں بھرتے ہو منگتوں کی مجھے بھی ہو عطا

حِصّۂ جُود و سَخا خواجہ پِیا خواجہ پِیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

A’la Hadrat, Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْمَةُ الـرَّحْمٰن has stated: Lots of benefits and blessings are gained from the shrine of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . The late Maulana Barakaat Ahmad, who was my fellow disciple and also a student of my father, has told me that he had witnessed a non-Muslim whose entire body was covered in boils. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ knows better the exact number. He would come exactly at noon and would roll on the hot pebbles and stones and would say: O Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz (رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه)! I am feeling a burning sensation. On the third day I saw him absolutely all right. (Malfuzaat-e-A’la Hadrat, pp. 384)

خواجَۂ ہِند وہ دربار ہے اعلٰی تیرا کبھی مَحروم نہیں مانگنے والا تیرا

جو گیا اجمیر میں دل کی مُرادیں پا گیا میرے خواجہ کے سخی دربار پر لاکھوں سلام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is extremely useful to study two booklets namely ‘ Khofnak Jadugar ’ and ‘ Faizan-e-Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, to gain lots of blessings and favours from Sayyiduna Khuwajah Mu’eenuddin Chishti Ajmayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and to get further information about his life and saintly- miracles. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the life history of Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz, his devotion to Sayyiduna Data ‘Ali Hajwayri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, his simplicity, kind relationship with neighbours, pardoning and tolerance, fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, concealing the

faults of Muslims, his sayings and saintly-miracles have been mentioned in an extremely beautiful and easy manner, therefore, obtain these booklets today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah stalls and study them yourselves as well as persuade other Islamic brothers to do so.

These booklets can also be read online or downloaded for free from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Bayan, we have been privileged to hear about the saintly-miracles of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Throughout his blessed life, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه made efforts to propagate Islam. For the accomplishment of this goal, like other pious saints, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه also visited different places and happily endured the difficulties that he encountered. Countless non-Muslims embraced Islam by seeing his saintly-miracles and awe-inspiring presence and Madani transformations took place in the lives of millions of people.

Through the saintly-miracles of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, the tyrant ruler of Sabzwaar was privileged to repent of his corrupt beliefs and sins. Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه even blessed him with his Khilafat. One of the saintly-miracles of Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was that when the magicians wanted to fight against him, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه ended the effect of their magic by throwing dust upon which he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه blew after reciting Ayat-ul-Kursi, this left those magicians paralysed. Having seen this saintly-miracle, their religious leader embraced Islam. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyiduna Khuwajah Ghareeb Nawaz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with the saintly-miracles of listening to voices from hundreds of miles away, raising the dead and many other saintly-miracles. It is for this reason that once he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه put his shoes into the fire, but the fire did not burn them. Furthermore, every night he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه miraculously would go to blessed Baytullaah, which was located thousands of miles from his room, he would

become occupied with Tawaf the whole night and then would return before Fajr. The poor and needy would continue coming to his grand court and he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would distribute the treasures of the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ among them from beneath his prayer mat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunnahs and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Two sayings of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes the sneeze (of a person) and does not like the yawn (of a person). (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 163, Hadees 6226)

2. When one sneezes and says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’, the angels say ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ and if he says, ‘ رَبُّ الۡعَالَمِيۡنَ ’ the angels say, ‘ May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy upon you’. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 11, pp. 358, Hadees 12284)

3. Lower your head, cover your face as you sneeze, and sneeze in a low voice as it is foolish to sneeze loudly. (Rad-dul-Muhtar, vol. 9, pp. 684)

4. One should say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰه ’ after sneezing. It is better to say ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ ’ or ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ (it is stated in Khaza` in - ul -‘ Irfan on page 3 with reference to Tahtaawi that it is a Sunnat -e- Muakkadah to recite the Hamd of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after sneezing).

5. It is Wajib for the one who hears the sneezer, to say ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’ (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you) immediately in such an audible voice that the one who sneezed can hear it. (Bahar -e- Shari’at, vol. 16, pp. 119)

6. Upon hearing ‘ يَرۡحَمُكَ اللّٰه ’, the person who sneezed should say ‘ يَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهُ لَنَا وَلَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forgive us and you) or say ‘ يَهۡدِيۡكُمُ اللّٰهُ وَيُصۡلِحُ بَالَكُمۡ ’ (may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ guide you and improve your condition).

(Fatawa ‘ Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 326)

7. Whoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ after sneezing and passes his tongue over all his teeth, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ he will be safe from dental diseases.

(Mirat-ul Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 396)

8. Sayyiduna ‘Ali- ul - Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has said, ‘Whosoever says ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ عَلٰى كُلِّ حَال ’ upon sneezing, he will never suffer from pain in the molars or earache.’ (Mirqat-ul Mafatih, vol. 8, pp. 499, Taht -al- Hadees 4739)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar -e- Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat -e- Islami . One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat -e- Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Click here to read

