بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْمِ

Madani Pearls

from Shura

Markazī Majlis-e-Shūrā

From: 4 to 7 September, 2014

Translated into English by

Majlis-e-Tarajim (Dawat-e-Islami)

Table of

Contents

Excellence in Salāt -Alan- Nabī صَلَّی اللّٰہ تعالٰی علیہ واٰلہٖ وسلَّم

Madani Mashwarah . 3

Seek Shar’ī guidance . 3

Shar’ī guidance . 4

Remain steadfast . 4

Pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Infrastructure of ‘ Imrānī Kābīnāt (Gilgit-Baltistan) . 5

Madanī Pearls for a successful Madanī Mashwarah .. 6

Madanī donation box . 7

Self-sufficiency . 8

Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages . 8

Skins of sacrificed animals and collective Qurbānī 9

Majlis Assets . 10

Written work . 10

Fire safety measures . 11

Individual progress . 11

Weekly Sunnah -inspiring Ijtimā ’ 11

Courses . 12

Sunnī scholars, saints and Jāmi’āt . 12

Ramadan I’tikāf 12

Overseas Majlis . 13

41-day Madanī Tarbiyyat . 14

Establishment of Majlis for fostering harmony and Majlis for the deceased of Dawat -e- Islami 14

Majlis Communication .. 15

Special arrangement . 15

Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt . 15

Majlis Madanī activities for Islamic sisters . 16

Miscellaneous Madanī pearls . 16

Madanī request . 17

…

اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Madani Pearls

from Shura

Shaykh -e- Tarīqat, Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat, the founder of Dawat -e- Islami, ‘ Allāmah Maulānā Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyai دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated in his masterpiece ‘ Naykī kī Da’wat ’ (part-1) which is the sixth chapter of ‘ Faizān -e- Sunnat ’: Sayyidunā Abul-Muwāhib Shāzilī عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has said, ‘I had a dream in which I was privileged to see the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘On the Day of Judgement, you will intercede for one hundred thousand people of my Ummah .’ I humbly asked, ‘O my Master صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! What is the reason of showing this kindness and benevolence to me?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘This is because you often send the gifts of Salāt to me.’ (At- Tabaqāt - ul-Kubrā lish- Sha’rānī, part 2, pp. 101)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madanī Mashwarah

Markazī Majlis -e- Shūrā

Faizān -e- Madīnah Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi)

8-11 Zul-Qa’dah, 1435 AH (4-7 September, 2014)

Here is the 43 rd verse of Sūrah An- Nahl with its translation from page 507 of sacred Kanz-ul-Īmān published by Maktaba-tul-Madīnah, the publishing department of Dawat -e- Islami . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in part 14 of the Holy Quran:

فَسۡـَٔلُوۡۤا اَہۡلَ الذِّکۡرِ اِنۡ کُنۡتُمۡ لَا تَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿ۙ۴۳﴾

O people! Ask those who have knowledge if you do not know.

[ Kanz-ul-Īmān (Translation of Quran)] (Part 14, Sūrah An- Nahl, verse 43)

In the exegesis of the above verse, it is stated in Khazāin-ul -‘ Irfān: An ignorant person cannot do without asking a knowledgeable person. The cure for the disease of ignorance is that the ignorant person should ask the scholar and act as per his order. (Khazāin-ul -‘ Irfān, pp. 602) It is stated in a Hadīs: The cure for the disease of ignorance is to ask scholars [about what one is ignorant of]. (Khazāin-ul -‘ Irfān, pp. 507)

Regarding the foregoing verse, it is stated on page 1059 of the 3 rd volume of Bahār -e- Sharī’at: It became obvious that there will be a group of people in the Muslim Ummah who will not have full Islamic knowledge, whereas there will be another group who will have great knowledge and deep insight into Islamic sciences. Since it is obligatory for every Muslim to follow the path liked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم, everyone should perform their deeds in conformity with Islamic teachings. If someone is unaware of the Shar’ī ruling in a particular situation, he should contact and ask the knowledgeable people and abide by the order of Sharī’ah . This is the principle Muslims have been following since the age of the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If anyone did not know about the permissibility or impermissibility of something, he would unhesitatingly ask Islamic scholars about the Shar’ī ruling. In every age, people contacted Islamic scholars in order to acquire the knowledge of Shar’ī rulings. In the present age, Dār-ul-Iftās have been established and are excellently fulfilling the Shar’ī needs of Muslims. (Bahār -e- Sharī’at, vol. 3, part 19, pp. 1059 – Publisher Maktaba-tul-Madīnah)

· Every activity of Dawat -e- Islami must be carried out in total conformity with Sharī’ah .

· If it has been Wājib for us to remove certain faults, we must remove them without delay .

· In order to protect Waqf (endowed) properties and to prevent their non- Shar’ī use, Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt should be held for responsible Islamic brothers. The responsible Islamic brothers should be made aware of Shar’ī rulings. It is as if holding such Ijtimā’āt is ‘ مِنۡ وَجۡه وَاجِبِ كِفَايَه ’ (i.e. holding them is Wājib-ul-Kifāyah, i.e. a type of Wājib which is, if fulfilled by some, is considered to be fulfilled by all.)

· During their Madanī Mashwarahs, members of Shūrā and other responsible Islamic brothers should ask their subordinate Islamic brothers about the following points:

1. How many times did you seek guidance from Iftā Maktab (of Dawat -e- Islami) about Madanī (i.e. organizational) activities in view of your organizational responsibility? (Islamic brothers from Bāb-ul-Madīnah, Baluchistan and Bāb - ul -Islam should contact Iftā Maktab Karachi by e-mail on the e-mail address ifta@dawateislami.net and Islamic brothers from Punjab, Kashmir, KPK and Gilgit-Baltistan should contact Iftā Maktab Lahore on the e-mail address ifta2@dawateislami.net .)

2. Did you contact Majlis -e- Ijārah in case of any employment issue?

Contact Numbers: 0300-0220113 0300 -0220112 – 0300-0220115 0300-0220114

3. In case of facing any issue related to finance or assets, did you contact the relevant Majlis [i.e. Finance or Assets Majlis ]? Shar’ī guidance-seeking Islamic brothers should be appreciated, whereas those who do not do should be made to ensure it.

· The global Majlis Mushāwarat (for Islamic sisters) should seek Shar’ī guidance related to every type of their Madanī (organizational) activity from the Iftā Maktab only through the relevant member of Shūrā Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid Attārī Al- Madanī . (Similarly, it is essential for them to consult with the relevant member of Shūrā to implement the instructions obtained from Iftā Maktab .)

· If something is decided with mutual consent, then it should be carried out fulfilling all of its requirements, as long as possible. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in the Glorious Quran (part 4, Sūrah Āl -e-‘ Imrān, verse 159):

وَ شَاوِرۡ ہُمۡ فِی الۡاَمۡـرِ ۚ فَاِ ذَا عَزَ مۡتَ فَتَوَ کَّلۡ عَلَی اللہِ ؕ اِنَّ اللہَ یُحِبُّ الۡمُتَوَ کِّلِیۡنَ ﴿۱۵۹﴾

And consult with them in the conduct of affairs; and when you decide upon something, rely upon Allah; indeed Allah loves those who trust (Him).

[ Kanz-ul-Īmān (Translation of Quran)] (Part 4, Sūrah Āl -e-‘ Imrān, verse 159)

· The Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِه ٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

اِذَا اَرَدۡتَّ اَمۡرًا فَعَلَيۡك بِالتُّ ؤَدَةِ حَتّٰي يجعَلَ اللّٰهُ لَكَ فَرۡجًا وَّ مَخۡرَجًا

Translation: When you intend to do something (which involves hardship) then it is mandatory for you to take your time until Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes it easy and opens the way for you.

(Az-Zuhd li Ibn Al- Mubārak, pp. 14, Hadīs 41)

That is, whenever you intend to do an extremely difficult work, remain steadfast in it until Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ makes it easy for you. (Fayz-ul-Qadīr, vol. 1, pp. 349, Taht Al- Hadīs 417)

· The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

اِذَا اَرَدۡتَ اَمۡرًا فَتَدَبَّرۡ عَاقِبَتَه فَاِنۡ كَانَ رُشۡدًا فَامۡضِه

Translation: When you intend to do something, then ponder over its consequence. If it is good, then get determined to do it.

(Kanz-ul -‘ Ummāl, vol. 2, part 3, pp. 101, Hadīs 5673)

· Every deed should be done only for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

· A prominent person is always surrounded by ordeals. ‘Inner and outer’ ignorance results in many sins.

· The worship that brings people close to you but draws you away from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is a cause of destruction.

· Sincerity is a fundamental requirement for every good deed.

· Adopt moderation and avoid excess in everything. Get neither disappointed with Divine mercy nor fearless of Divine wrath.

1. The member of Shūrā Muhammad Baghdad Raza Attārī has been tasked with promoting the Madanī working of Dawat -e- Islami in Gilgit-Baltistan, the northern province of Pakistan. He has been made the Nigrān of Kābīnāt of this province. In organizational terms of Dawat -e- Islami, this province has been named ‘ Imrānī Kābīnāt .

2. The Majlis Madanī Qāfilah will send a one-month Madanī Qāfilah to ‘ Imrānī Kābīnāt on a monthly basis for three consecutive months. One of the three Madanī Qāfilahs will be from Bāb-ul-Madīnah, Karachi, ا ِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

3. The Majlis Rābitah should resolve the issues of Faizān -e- Madīnah and Madanī Markaz of Attārī Kot (Gori Kot district Astore, Gilgit) on an urgent basis. The responsible Islamic brothers of the Assets Majlis (from Madīna-tul-Awliyā, Multan) will keep staying there until the issues are resolved.

4. The responsible Islamic brothers should particularly meet the scholars, saints and key figures of the Ahl -e- Sunnat in (Gori Kot, district Astore).

5. Particularly launch a ‘ Madanī Tarbiyyatī Course’ and a ‘ Madanī In’āmāt Course’ so that Dars and Madrasa- tul - Madīnah for adults are promoted, improving the Madanī working. (Target for the commencement of courses: December 1, 2014)

6. Try hard to ensure that ‘ Madāris-ul-Madīnah for adults’ make steady progress.

7. The member of Shūrā Muhammad Baghdad Raza Attārī will be visiting ‘ Imrānī Kābīnāt in the month of Zul-Qa’da-til-Harām 1435, September 2014, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

8. The Nigrān of the Kābīnah and other responsible Islamic brothers should persuade those Islamic brothers of Dawat -e- Islami who are the natives of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Kashmir and Gilgit but are living in other parts of Pakistan to return to these provinces and make efforts to promote the Madanī working there.

9. If Madanī Mashwarahs are scheduled and Islamic brothers are informed about them beforehand, this may well bear fruits.

10. Initially, the progress-report-maintaining responsible Islamic brother or any responsibilities-fulfilling Islamic brother should provide information about the Madanī Mashwarah of Kābīnah or any department. He should also remind Islamic brothers of the Mashwarah one or two days before it is held. If the Nigrān of Kābīnah or Majlis does this himself, it will be highly commendable.

11. The presiding brother as well as the attendees should ensure punctuality during the Madanī Mashwarah .

12. Try to reach the venue of the Madanī Mashwarah before the preset time so that you can have enough time to relieve yourself, if necessary, and be able to attend it with concentration.

13. If the Madanī Mashwarah is scheduled to be held after Salāt-ul-Fajr, then offer Salāt-ul-Isha at the venue of the Madanī Mashwarah . Go to sleep at an appropriate time so that you can actively attend the Madanī Mashwarah in a good mood or else you will feel sleepy and unable to maintain your concentration besides causing disturbance to others and trouble to the presiding brother of the Madanī Mashwarah .

14. Using a mobile phone or tablet pc during the Madanī Mashwarah can result in loss or decrease in benefit for you and your department or division etc. Therefore, keep your mobile off or put it on the silent mode during the Madanī Mashwarah . Do see the missed calls etc. during the lunch/dinner break or at the end of the Madanī Mashwarah so that you can reply to them promptly, if necessary.

15. Make preparations for the Madanī Mashwarah in advance. For example, Madanī pearls of your department/ Kābīnah / division, etc. the files of progress report, planned future schedule and progress schedule should all be updated so that you can produce them on demand. Furthermore, if you want to discuss your problems and offer suggestions for their solution, present them in black and white or email them in advance to the presiding brother of the Madanī Mashwarah .

16. Displaying enthusiasm for the fulfilment of his responsibilities, the presiding brother of the Madanī Mashwarah should also follow all those etiquettes which he wants other attendees to observe. For example, punctuality, planned preparation, availability of Madanī pearls and progress reports, advance analysis of

Madanī pearls and progress report, identification of slow progress and improper schedule, keeping in mind the sayings of Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه (through his audio/video speeches etc. or writing) and Madanī pearls of Markazī Majlis -e- Shūrā about the relevant department whose Madanī Mashwarah is going to be held, and sharing them with others on appropriate occasions.

17. If the time of Salāh of Ishrāq and Chāsht starts, offer them even during the Madanī Mashwarah .

18. Encourage responsible Islamic brothers greatly and pat them on the back whole-heartedly.

19. A perfect and timely change improves the Madanī working.

20. The Pakistan-level responsible Islamic brothers should be very steadfast.

21. Whenever the Nigrān of the Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah conducts a Madanī Mashwarah for any department, the Nigrān of Pakistan Shu’bah Zimmahdār Majlis (Pakistan) should himself inform all Nigrāns of Kābīnāt of it, requesting them to ensure the presence of all the relevant responsible Islamic brothers. Members of Shūrā should also prevail upon the responsible Islamic brothers to attend the Pakistan-level Madanī Mashwarah with full preparation. {Department-related Shar’ī queries (which should be emailed in advance), individual progress report, schedule, departmental progress report, analysis of the previously set targets, progress report of Islamic brothers studying departmental Madanī pearls, progress report of the implementation of Madanī pearls and written record of the appointment of responsible Islamic brothers should all be updated and available.} They should also keep inquiring about these preparations until the relevant brothers reach the venue of the Madanī Mashwarah .

22. All the responsible Islamic brothers should focus their full attention on Madanī donation boxes, strengthening this department. The Shūrā member Hājī Muhammad Farooq Jeelani Attārī has been made responsible for the Majlis Madanī donation box.

23. In order to make Madanī donation boxes available for the collection of donations in Madanī Marākiz (Faizān -e- Madīnah), Madāris-ul-Madīnah, Jāmi’āt-ul-Madīnah, Dār-ul-Madīnah and in weekly Ijtimā’āt of Islamic sisters, Hājī Muhammad Farooq Jeelani Attārī should contact Pakistan-level responsible Islamic brothers and Shūrā members of the relevant departments. Target: 15 days

24. A strong Madanī donation box should be installed outside the main gate of every Madanī Markaz (Faizān -e- Madīnah), Madrasa- tul - Madīnah, Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah and Dār-ul-Madīnah .

25. Members of Shūrā and Nigrāns of Kābīnāt should arrange Madanī Mashwarah providing Madanī Tarbiyyat to the responsible Islamic brothers of the Madanī donation box department at Kābīnah and Kābīnāt level every month on a regular basis. Furthermore, whenever they plan to visit any city, they should include in their schedule a Madanī Mashwarah and a Madanī Tarbiyyat session for all responsible Islamic brothers of the Madanī donation box department of that city and encourage those showing good performance.

26. Member of Shūrā Hājī Sayyid Muhammad Ibraheem Attārī should go to a shopkeeper along with few responsible Islamic brothers and prevail upon the shopkeeper to keep the Madanī donation box in his shop. It should be recorded and telecast on Madanī Channel. Besides, it should be broadcast, in particular, in the Madanī Mashwarah of the related responsible Islamic brothers so that they may be groomed and encouraged.

27. The responsible Islamic brothers of Majlis Transport should visit different bus stops and enlighten the buses owners about the excellence in Sadaqah, prevailing upon them to keep the Madanī donation box at the counter.

28. Following a planned schedule, the Nigrān of Kābīnah should visit different cities (divisions) and conduct a Madanī Mashwarah with those shopkeepers whose shops Madanī donation boxes are kept in. Refreshments should also be served. Moreover, they should be motivated to put Madanī donations in Madanī boxes and prevail upon the customers to make their contribution. Furthermore, motivate them to take part in the Madanī activities of Dawat -e- Islami in person.

29. A Kābīnah -level Sunnah -Inspiring Ijtimā ’ will be held for these shopkeepers in which Nigrān -e- Shūrā will deliver his speech that will be televised on Madanī Channel.

30. Majlis for Traders should make Madanī donation boxes available in different markets such as grain markets and the animal market during the days of Qurbānī .

31. The Majlis Madanī donation box should formulate Madanī pearls for the protection of the box and ensure that they are implemented.

32. Islamic sisters should email the monthly progress report of Madanī donation boxes to the relevant member of Shūrā .

33. A Mashwarah of the members of Shūrā Hājī Muhammad Aqeel Attārī Al- Madanī and Hājī Muhammad Ameen Attārī will be held regarding the matters of Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi). Target: 7 days

34. All the departments of Dawat -e- Islami, especially Madrasa- tul - Madīnah, Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah, Dār-ul-Madīnah and Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Online should be made self-sufficient. For this purpose, members of Shūrā and Nigrān -e- Kābīnāt, from time to time, should hold Madanī Mashwarah with the supervisors of these departments.

35. With the consultation and permission of the relevant Nigrān of Majlis (Pakistan) and member of Shūrā, a qualified professional could also be hired for self-sufficiency purpose, wherever necessary.

36. Strengthen the Majlis of ‘ Ushr and nearby villages. Members of Shūrā and Nigrān -e- Kābīnāt must arrange Madanī Mashwarah with all relevant responsible Islamic brothers once every month or every two months. During the Madanī Mashwarah, present the participants with ‘ Madanī pearls’ such as moral and organizational instructions, analysis of the progress report, appreciation of good progress, advice on how to improve slow progress and solutions to problems. (For detailed information, please study 26 Madanī pearls of Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages.)

37. Pakistan is the eighth biggest agricultural country of the world. Please take a look at Pakistan’s position in relation to the following crops in the whole world:

(i) Chickpea — 3 rd

(ii) Apricot — 6 th

(iii) Cotton — 4 th

(iv) Milk — 5 th

(v) Date — 5 th

(vi) Sugarcane — 5 th

(vii) Onion — 7 th

(viii) Mandarin Orange, Clementine, and Citron — 6 th

(ix) Mango — 4 th

(x) Wheat — 7 th

(xi) Rice — 14 th

38. The fishing department is also under the supervision of the Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages. The responsible Islamic brothers of the Majlis should contact fishermen. Enlightening them about the excellence in Sadaqah, the responsible Islamic brother should request them to make as much financial cooperation with Dawat -e- Islami as they can conveniently do.

39. Following a planned schedule, the Nigrān of Kābīnah should visit different cities (divisions) and deliver speeches in farmers’ Ijtimā’āt in collaboration with the Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages, enlightening them about the services rendered by Dawat -e- Islami and persuading them to make further cooperation. Moreover, he should prevail upon them to take part in the Madanī activities of Dawat -e- Islami in person. Members of Shūrā and Nigrān -e- Kābīnāt should keep on inquiring about them.

40. The students, teachers and supervisors of Madrasa- tul - Madīnah should cooperate fully with the Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages, taking the essential care that their study-schedule is not disturbed.

41. The relevant member of Shūrā and the responsible Islamic brother of the Majlis ‘ Ushr and nearby villages should seek Shar’ī guidance from Iftā Maktab regarding all the organizational matters of the relevant department.

42. This year (i.e. Zul-Hijja-til-Harām, 1435 AH), under the supervision of the Finance Majlis, the department for the skins of sacrificial animals has made 106 stores for the collection of skins of sacrificed animals throughout Pakistan. A DVD containing essential guidelines has been prepared for the training of those Islamic brothers who will be working in these stores. Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt will be held for them until Zul-Hijjah in which they will be trained as per a particular training syllabus and the DVD will also be played.

43. Collective Qurbānī will be performed only at those places where prior permission will be granted by the Nigrān of Majlis collective Qurbānī (Hājī Muhammad Aslam Attārī, Bāb-ul-Madīnah /Muhammad Muzammil Attārī, Narowal).

44. The Majlis of collective Qurbānī should be formed where collective Qurbānī has to be performed. The Majlis should consist of at least three members that can be increased, if necessary. The Islamic brother of the city-level Finance Majlis will be its Nigrān . The Nigrān will not have the responsibility of collecting skins. It will be excellent if Madanī Islamic brothers are included in this Majlis . Like previous year, a Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā ’ will be held in which the Islamic scholars of Dār-ul-Iftā Ahl -e- Sunnat will provide Madanī training. At the end of the Ijtimā ’, an exam will be conducted and successful Islamic brothers will be permitted to perform collective Qurbānī . (It is a Madanī request to ensure the inclusion of a Madanī Islamic brother in the Majlis and make him the Nigrān, if possible.)

Schedule of Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā ’ for collective Qurbānī and skins of sacrificed animals, 1435 AH

S#

Kābīnāt

Date

Place

Madanī scholars of Dār-ul-Iftā Ahl -e- Sunnat

Timing of training

1

Attārī

(Bāb-ul-Madīnah), Ashābī

18 Zil-Qa’dah

14/09/2014

Global Madanī Markaz,

Faizān -e- Madīnah,

Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi)

Mufti Muhammad Fuzail Attārī / Muhammad Sajjad Attārī Al- Madanī

Morning 10:00

01:00

2

Junaydī

23 Zil-Qa’dah

19/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah

Sukkur

Mufti Ali Asgher Attārī

From Salāt-ul-Jumu’ah to Salāt-ul-Maghrib

3

Amjadī

“ ”

Faizān -e- Madīnah Zamzam Nagar (Hyderabad)

Muhammad Naveed Attārī Al- Madanī

“ ”

4

Sīrānī

18 Zil-Qa’dah 14/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah

Khanpur

“ ”

Zuhr to Maghrib

5

Suharwardī

“ ”

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Madīna-tul-Awliyā, Multan

Muhammad Hassan Attārī Al- Madanī

“ ”

6

Chishtī

“ ”

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Sardārābād

Muhammad Irfan Attārī Al- Madanī

“ ”

7

Ghazālī

20 Zil-Qa’dah

16/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Gulzār -e- Tayyibah (Sargodha)

“ ”

“ ”

8

Hajwayrī

18 Zil-Qa’dah

14/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Johar Town, Markaz-ul-Awliyā (Lahore)

Mufti Muhammad Hashim Attārī Al- Madanī

“ ”

9

Siddīqī

16 Zil-Qa’dah

12/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Sheikhupura Mor, Gujranwala

“ ”

From Salāt-ul-Jumu’ah to Salāt-ul-Maghrib

10

Maharvī, Muhammadī (Kashmir)

18 Zil-Qa’dah

14/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah, G-11 Markaz, Islamabad

Muhammad Naveed Chishtī Al- Madanī

From Salāt-uz-Zuhr to Salāt-ul-Maghrib

11

Jīlānī

(Khyber Pakhtunkhwa)

23 Zil-Qa’dah

19/09/2014

Faizān -e- Madīnah, Peshawar

“ ”

From Salāt-ul-Jumu’ah to Salāt-ul-Maghrib

45. All the tasks such as receiving money for collective Qurbānī, buying cows, performing Qurbānī and distributing meat etc. will be carried out in Kābīnah under the supervision of Kābīnah responsible Islamic brother of the Finance Majlis . The responsibility of collective Qurbānī at Pakistan-level is given to the Nigrān of the Finance Majlis Pakistan, Hājī Muhammad Aslam Attārī (Bāb-ul-Madīnah), whereas Muhammad Muzammil Attārī (Narowal) will be his assistant.

46. An important letter entitled ‘ 31 Madanī Pearls of Skins of Sacrificed Animals ’ has been emailed to Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah Maktab . The letter contains receipts of Qurbānī, guidelines on how to collect skins of sacrificed animals, samples of banners for collecting the skins of sacrificed animals and for collective Qurbānī . All the responsible Islamic brothers should study it as soon as possible.

47. A ‘Question and Answer’ session comprising Shar’ī guidance about the Assets Majlis has been videoed. All the responsible Islamic brothers, especially Nigrān -e- Kābīnah, Nigrān -e- Kābīnāt and members of Shūrā should watch it attentively. (The link will be emailed soon) Target: 7 days

48. If any Majlis or department wants to have any piece of writing published it should have the relevant Islamic brother trained by Majlis Al- Madīna - tul -‘ Ilmiyyah before seeking permission from the relevant member of Shūrā . After the Islamic brother has been professionally trained, he should be assigned the written work.

49. On 9 th Zul-Hijja-til-Harām 1435 AH, 15 October, 2014, at 10:00 pm, the serial of Nigrān -e- Shūrā ‘ Āg hī Āg ’ (Fire Everywhere) will be telecast on Madanī Channel which will be watched by all male and female students, teachers and supervisors of Madāris-ul-Madīnah (for girls, boys, both with and without board and lodging facilities) and Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah (girls and boys) in their respective Madāris and Jāmi’āt . The Kābīnah and Kābīnāt level responsible Islamic brothers of the Majlis security matters will also watch this serial. Hājī Hāfiz Asad Attārī Al- Madanī will make arrangements to play this serial under the guidance of the Nigrān of the Majlis Madanī Channel, Hājī Abdul Habeeb Attārī .

50. Seeking Shar’ī guidance, the Majlis security matters should take safety measures to protect Madanī Marākiz (Faizān -e- Madīnah) from fire. In collaboration with national institutes of fire safety, they should also provide Madanī training to the students of Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah and the Islamic brothers of the Majlis security matters. The Nigrān of the Majlis security matters (Pakistan) should formulate Madanī pearls for fire safety and email them to the Intizāmī Kābīnah Maktab . Target: 12 days

51. At the end of each Madanī month, the members of Shūrā should email or text their individual progress report about the following five Madanī activities to member of Shūrā Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid Attārī Al- Madanī (weekly Sunnah -inspiring Ijtimā ’, weekly Madanī Muzākarah, Madanī Qāfilah, Fikr -e- Madīnah daily and two Dars from Faizān -e- Sunnat). Member of Shūrā, Muhammad Shahid Attārī, will email this progress report to the Nigrān of Shūrā, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

52. Regarding the above five Madanī activities, the members of Shūrā should particularly receive the progress report of their subordinate Islamic brothers (i.e. Nigrān and members of Kābīnah, Nigrān of Kābīnāt and responsible Islamic brothers of Kābīnāt). Inquiring about these activities will strengthen the system, improving progress, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

53. In order to strengthen the weekly Sunnah -Inspiring Ijtimā ’, the target set for every Zaylī Halqah is 12 Islamic brothers. Make determined efforts to meet this target.

54. Besides the appointments of responsible Islamic brothers of Kābīnah and Kābīnāt of the Majlis weekly Ijtimā ’, the Nigrān and members of this Majlis should also be appointed.

55. A 12-week advance schedule of the preachers delivering speeches in the weekly Ijtimā ’ should be made.

56. During the weekly Ijtimā ’, the only speeches prepared by Al- Madīna - tul -‘ Ilmiyyah should be delivered.

57. After Salāt-ul - ‘ Asr on Thursday, in the vicinity of the Masjid/ Madanī Markaz (Faizān -e- Madīnah) where Ijtimā ’ is being held, the preacher of Dawat -e- Islami who has to deliver the speech should invite the locals to attend the Sunnah -Inspiring Ijtimā ’. Furthermore, he should attend the Ijtimā ’ completely, staying in the Masjid the whole night with the intention of I’tikāf, attending the post- Fajr Madanī Halqah and offering the Salāh of Ishrāq and Chāsht .

58. Before delivering the speech during the weekly Sunnah -Inspiring Ijtimā ’, the preacher should read it loudly from beginning to end at least once doing a rehearsal-type practice so that it does not sound as if he is

only reading but rather delivering a well-prepared speech in an excellent way. Note that the speech to be delivered during the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtimā’ is emailed by the office of Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah.

59. Speech-delivering should be assigned to skilled and talented preachers.

60. If the speech-delivering preacher is a righteous and practicing Muslim, the number of the attendees of the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtimā’ will be increased.

61. Arrangements for conveyance and meal should be made for the Islamic brothers of nearby villages or Jāmi’āt of the Ahl-e-Sunnat who will come to attend the weekly Ijtimā’.

62. A 63-day Madanī Tarbiyyatī course should be provided on a regular basis for the Islamic brothers of such areas which are weak from organizational point of view; so that the Madanī activities can be improved there.

63. All the responsible Islamic brothers of Majlis Madanī Qāfilah (from Zaylī to Kābīnah and Kābīnāt level) should be made to attend the 41-day Madanī In’āmāt and Madanī Qāfilah course. Those who have already attended it should be made to attend the 12-day Madanī course.

64. Madanī Qāfilah needs our attention.

65. Nigrān-e-Majlis Madanī In’āmāt and member of Shūrā Muhammad Fuzail Attārī and Nigrān-e-Majlis Madanī Qāfilah and member of Shūrā Muhammad Ameen Attārī (Qāfilah) should designate responsible Islamic brothers from Zaylī to Kābīnāt level. Arrange 26-hour Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt in every Kābīnah in order to groom them. The target to organize Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt and to designate Zaylī level brothers is 126 days.

66. Islamic brothers from all the departments of Dawat-e-Islami should travel and make others travel with Madanī Qāfilahs, playing their role in improving and strengthening the system of Qāfilah.

67. We have to follow the system improving it without getting tired.

68. The member of Shūrā Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid Attārī Al-Madanī has provided the addresses and names of the important Islamic scholars and Mashāikh from entire Pakistan to the members of Shūrā. All the members of Shūrā must meet them once a month or once every two months.

69. A Madanī Muzākarah will be held for all students of Sunnī Jāmi’āt on the 9 th and 10 th of Muharram-ul-Harām 1436 AH (3 and 4 November, 2014) on Monday and Tuesday at the global Madanī Markaz, Faizān-e-Madīnah, Bāb-ul-Madīnah, Karachi. The Member of Shūrā Hājī Yafoor Raza Attārī has been entrusted with making preparations for it.

70. Without delay, observe the arrangements for the I’tikāf of the entire month of Ramadan and its last 10 days in the Masājid where it will be held in 1436 AH. Construction work should be started, wherever necessary. The construction work of the Madanī Muzākarah hall should be started as soon as possible wherever its permission is granted by the Majlis Iftā Maktab. (Survey should be carried out by Majlis

I’tikāf and Majlis construction with Shar’ī guidance from the Majlis Iftā and permission from Nigrān -e- Kābīnah . At first, its detail should be emailed to Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah Maktab .) Target: 63 days

71. The target figure for the I ’tikāf of 1436 AH within and outside Pakistan is 313000 (three hundred and thirteen thousand) Mu’takifīn . The I ’tikāf Majlis should particularly make efforts for it from now.

72. The Majlis I’tikāf should make the I’tikāf -attendees of the year 1435 AH attend Madanī Muzākarah collectively from time to time and the Majlis Madrasa- tul - Madīnah for adults should make them attend Madāris throughout the country in order to keep them associated with the Madanī environment.

73. The overseas Majlis has to decide which countries will be visited by the Ālamī Majlis Mushāwarat of Islamic sisters and other female preachers along with their Mahārim . The member of Shūrā Muhammad Bilal Attārī has been assigned this task. Target: 7 days

74. While Shar’ī guidance is being sought from the Iftā Maktab by the Islamic brothers of a foreign country regarding the Madanī (organizational) activities of their country, the relevant member of Shūrā should also be in contact via phone.

75. The Islamic brothers of Dār-ul-Iftā Ahl -e- Sunnat will be visiting different countries along with members of Shūrā, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

76. Muhammad Bilal Raza Attārī, a member of Shūrā and that of the overseas Majlis, should arrange a Madanī Mashwarah, once every two months, for those Islamic brothers who are responsible for the offices of Shūrā members (and deal with foreign countries matters) so that the system of progress report and scheduling can be improved.

77. Members of Shūrā should encourage the responsible Islamic brothers of their respective countries to submit the application for starting a Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Online in their country to the Majlis Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Online. In this Madrasah, admission priority should be given to the Madanī children (boys and girls) of their country. Approximately 3 million PKR is required for the commencement of Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Online and 2 million PKR is its monthly expense. A Madrasa- tul - Madīnah Online for a gulf country is under construction in Okara, Pakistan.

78. Member of Shūrā and Nigrān -e- Majlis Madanī In’āmāt Muhammad Fuzail Raza Attārī should hold a Madanī Mashwarah on a monthly basis through internet with those responsible Islamic brothers of his Majlis who are in foreign countries.

79. Members of Shūrā should make efforts for strengthening the movement of Nafl fast within and outside Pakistan. They should provide the details of those Islamic brothers who intend to keep Nafl fasts to member of Shūrā Muhammad Fuzail Raza Attārī either by mail on the address roza@madaniinamat.net or by phone on the number: 0312-5921226

80. The responsibility of making arrangements for the weekly Madanī Muzākarah within and outside Pakistan is given to the Majlis weekly Ijtimā ’.

81. The link of Madanī Muzākarah will be sent to the responsible Islamic brothers of those foreign countries where the timings are different from Pakistan. Member of Shūrā Bilal Raza Attārī will do it.

82. A Madanī Tarbiyyat Gāh will be built in France, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

83. The Majlis Madanī Qāfilah will form a Majlis consisting of the Qāfilah responsible Islamic brothers of different countries which will determine country to country travelling excluding Pakistan.

84. The Nigrān-e-Shūrā along with a Madanī Qāfilah will travel to UK and different European countries in Muharram-ul-Harām 1436 AH, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Members of Shūrā should persuade the Islamic brothers of their respective countries to travel with this Madanī Qāfilah.

85. A one-month Madanī Qāfilah from every Kābīnah of Pakistan should travel to foreign countries at their own expense every two months. The Traders Majlis should particularly make great efforts in this regard.

86. The overseas Majlis should make a schedule for the travelling of all the members of Shūrā to foreign countries for 63 days and email it. This responsibility is given to the member of Shūrā Muhammad Bilal Raza Attārī. Target: 7 days

87. The visit of the member of Shūrā Hājī Muhammad Aslam Attārī to foreign countries should be scheduled in June and July.

88. A 41-day Madanī Tarbiyyat will be held for all the Nigrāns of Kābīnah and important Islamic brothers of foreign countries from 1 st Rabī’-ul-Awwal to 11 Rabī’-ul-Ākhir 1436 AH. All the arrangements for bringing them will be made by the relevant members of Shūrā and the overseas Majlis. Nigrān-e-Shūrā and members of Shūrā will provide Madanī Tarbiyyat to the overseas Islamic brothers. A 12-day Madanī Qāfilah has also been included in it. These Islamic brothers will also attend the Madanī Mashwarah of the Nigrān of Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah and take part in Madanī activities of different Kābīnāt. 12 Madanī Muzākarahs in Rabī’-ul-Awwal and 11 in Rabī’-ul-Ākhir are a special attraction of this Tarbiyyat. The relevant Nigrān-e-Kābīnah (i.e. Nigrān-e-Kābīnah of foreign countries) and member of Shūrā may allow any suitable Islamic brother to attend this Tarbiyyat, especially being held for overseas Islamic brothers.

Targets: (i) Foreign Country Attārī — 7 (ii) Foreign Country Razavī — 12 (iii) Foreign Country Farīdī — 12 (iv) Foreign Country Hajwayrī — 26 (v) Foreign Country Suharwardī — 10

89. The members of Shūrā Hājī Abdul Habeeb Attārī, Hājī Muhammad Ameen Attārī and Hājī Muhammad Aqeel Attārī Al-Madanī will consult with Majlis Iftā to determine as to how many times a preacher can return to his own country from the foreign country during the Madanī Qāfilah. Target: 15 days

90. It has been decided that strong Madanī Marākiz (Faizān-e-Madīnah) will be made in South Africa and UK. Members of Shūrā Muhammad Rafee Attārī, Hājī Waqar-ul-Madina Attārī, Hājī Muhammad Aqeel Attārī Al-Madanī will visit South Africa, whereas Hājī Muhammad Yafoor Raza Attārī, Hājī Muhammad Ameen Attārī Qāfilah and Muhammad Fuzail Raza Attārī will visit UK for this purpose, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

91. The Majlis for fostering harmony is formed and Hājī Ghulam Shabbir Attārī (responsible for the Majlis Na’at Khuwān, Bāb-ul-Madīnah, Karachi) is tasked with it. This Majlis will contact those Islamic brothers who were a part of Dawat-e-Islami once but are not now or who are no longer active in Madanī activities for some reason. This Majlis will share in the happiness and sadness of such Islamic brothers, attempting to motivate them to become active in Madanī activities again. The Majlis consists of 14 members at Pakistan level. Shūrā has given the responsibility of this Majlis at-and-outside Pakistan level to Abu Rajab Hājī Muhammad Shahid Attārī (Nigrān of Pakistan Intizāmī Kābīnah).

92. (Acting upon the Madanī In’ām number 55) All the members of Shūrā should meet two such Islamic brothers every week who used to attend Ijtimā’āt, perform Madanī activities etc. but do not do any longer. Members of Shūrā should send its progress report to the member of Shūrā Muhammad Ammad Attārī Al- Madanī through SMS.

93. A Majlis for the deceased of Dawat -e- Islami has been formed. This Majlis will, in particular, collect the information of those Islamic brothers who have passed away whilst being associated with the Madanī environment. Their death anniversaries will be commemorated every year. On the day of their death anniversary, the Nigrān of Majlis will go to the home of the deceased, present the ‘letter of condolence’ from Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه to his family members and hold an Ijtimā ’ of Zikr and Na’at . A Qārī of Madrasa- tul - Madīnah, who will be a member of this Majlis, will make Īsāl -e- Sawāb of the Holy Quran, Zikr, Salāt and Salām to the deceased. Likewise, a similar Majlis for Islamic sisters, consisting of 14 members, will be formed at Pakistan level.

94. A 4-member Majlis has been established which will hold Sunnah -Inspiring Ijtimā’āt at different institutions and places etc. Personages from concerned departments will attend these Ijtimā’āt . The responsible Islamic brothers should meet them after the Ijtimā ’ and stay in constant contact with them.

95. The following members of Shūrā will especially carry out Madanī activities among the important personages of the following departments by meeting and phoning them and delivering speeches among them: (1) Hājī Muhammad Azhar Attārī (government officials, politicians, journalists and concerned departments) (2) Qari Muhammad Saleem Attārī (prominent educationalists, researchers and concerned departments) (3) Hājī Abdul Habeeb Attārī (businessmen, traders and commercial centres).

96. Based on Fard knowledge and Waqf Amlāk (i.e. endowed properties), a Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā ’ for members of Shūrā, all Nigrāns of Kābīnah, Kābīnāt and their members will be held on 20 th, 21 st and 22 nd Muharram- ul - Harām 1435 H (14, 15 and 16 November, 2014) Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the global Madanī Markaz, Faizān -e- Madīnah, Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi). All the responsible Islamic brothers should offer Salāt-ul -‘ Ishā on Thursday (November 13) at Faizān -e- Madīnah .

97. Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt for responsible Islamic sisters will be held thrice a year at the global Madanī Markaz, Faizān -e- Madīnah Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi). Halqahs will also be arranged during these Ijtimā’āt in which female preachers will do Tarbiyyat .

98. Members of Shūrā will visit various Kābīnāt and arrange Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā ’ for Zaylī Mushāwarat . Thorough preparations should be made for the Ijtimā ’. Members of Shūrā and Nigrān of Kābīnāt should personally enquire about preparations by phoning the Nigrāns of division Mushāwarat, persuading them to make full preparations. Nigrān of Kābīnah should visit different areas and invite responsible Islamic brothers to attend the Ijtimā ’. Following a planned schedule, the Nigrān of division Mushāwarat should meet Zaylī Mushāwarat, stepping up efforts for the preparations of the Ijtimā ’. Target: 126 days

99. During the Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā ’, the member of Shūrā should deliver the speech on moral values and enthusiasm for conveying the call to righteousness, setting targets for promoting 12 Madanī activities

and tasking responsible Islamic brothers with achieving these targets. For the preparation of the speech, he should take great help from the book ‘ Call towards Righteousness ’ written by Amīr-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . It is essential for the speech-delivering preacher to be aware of weaknesses in the Madanī activities of the areas of the Kābīnah where Ijtimā’ is being held so that attempts can be made during the speech to remove those weaknesses.

100. A 3-day Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’ will be held in Pokhara (Nepal) from 28 Rabī’-ul-Ākhir to 2 Jumādal Aūlā 1436 AH, 19 to 24 February 2015 which will be attended by the responsible Islamic brothers of India and Nepal, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

101. The Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’ of all the Nāzimīn of the Jāmi’āt of Pakistan will be held at the global Madanī Markaz Faizān-e-Madīnah Bāb-ul-Madīnah (Karachi) in Zul-Hijja-til-Harām 1435 AH.

102. All the members of Shūrā should visit Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah from time to time to meet teachers and students and provide Madanī Tarbiyyat to them. Member of Shūrā Hājī Muhammad Asad Attārī Al-Madanī will plan the schedule for members of Shūrā and Nigrāns of Kābīnāt. Target: 15 days

103. Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt of Madāris-ul-Madīnah for girls will be held. Member of Shūrā Hājī Muhammad Aqeel Attārī Al-Madanī will schedule it. Target: 15 days

104. The timings of Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’ for Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah and Madrasa-tul-Madīnah will be from 8 am to 4 pm.

105. Nigrān Islamic brothers should check the progress report of the responsible Islamic brothers of Madanī In’āmāt in every Madanī Mashwarah. Encourage them if there is any improvement and motivate them to bring improvement if there is something lacking.

106. After informing the member of Shūrā Abu Majid Muhammad Shahid Attārī Al-Madanī, the members of Shūrā who have the responsibility for Kābīnāt should arrange Tarbiyyatī Ijtimā’āt at Kābīnāt or Kābīnah level. In these Ijtimā’āt, Tarbiyyatī speeches will be delivered with the observance of Islamic veiling, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . This will improve the Madanī activities among Islamic sisters. Before deciding whether the Ijtimā’ will be held at Kābīnāt or Kābīnah level it should be taken into consideration that Islamic sisters may not have to travel Shar’ī distance because a Shar’ī distance travel may result in their strength being decreased.

107. The Kābīnah/Kābīnāt level responsible Islamic sister will send the ‘schedule of progress report’ along with the ‘monthly progress report’ through her Mahram to the responsible Islamic brother of Kābīnah and Kābīnāt of the Majlis Madanī activities for Islamic sisters so that it can be known whether the relevant Islamic sister is visiting divisions/Kābīnāt or not. If this responsible Islamic brother finds any shortcoming, he will inform the Pakistan-level responsible Islamic brother for (the Majlis Madanī activities of Islamic sisters). He will not directly enquire about anything. The Pakistan-level responsible Islamic brother should inform the responsible Islamic sister of Ālamī Majlis Mushāwarat. She will enquire about the matter and issue guidelines.

108. No great success can be achieved for any Madanī activity unless the whole system is effective and efficient.

109. A farsighted and veteran responsible person who knows the Shar’ī and organizational limits of his actions is a successful one. He knows when to use power, which steps to take, which level to make his voice heard at, and which things to keep a wary eye on.

110. Whether a decision is right or wrong is determined after the outcome of it is known.

111. Have courage and patience. You will succeed, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

112. Video Madanī Muzākarah should be played in Jāmi’a-tul-Madīnah for girls.

113. The 12-day Madanī course is a favourite course of Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat ‘ Allāmah Maulānā Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . It is a short-cut to reaping the blessings of Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه .

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Many years have passed since the process of holding the Madanī Mashwarahs of Markazī Majlis -e- Shūrā was started. These Madanī Mashwarahs lasting for many days are held from time to time in the global Madanī Markaz of Dawat -e- Islami Faizān -e- Madīnah, Madīna-tul-Murshid, Bāb-ul-Madīnah, (Karachi). Whatever is mutually decided is briefly noted down and sent to the responsible Islamic brothers of Dawat -e- Islami with some amendments. Derive maximum benefit from these Madanī pearls and implement them in your country, divisions, cities and departments. You can also give them your valuable pieces of advice. Please send these Madanī pearls to the relevant responsible Islamic brothers within 7 days and obtain its confirmation. After you have obtained its confirmation, inform your Nigrān as well.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grant us steadfastness in remaining the slave of Amīr -e- Ahl -e- Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه and loyal to Dawat -e- Islami with sincerity!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

Schedule of the next Madanī Mashwarah of Markazī Majlis -e- Shūrā, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

S#

Islamic Date

Gregorian Date

Attendees

1.

18, 19, Muharram- ul - Harām 1436 AH

12, 13 November, 2014

Markazī Majlis -e- Shūrā

Date of sending mail

3 Zul-Hijja-til-Harām 1435 AH (September 28, 2014)

Majlis Progress Form and Madanī Pearl (Dawat -e- Islami)

