Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan .. 3

Parable of backbiting at a feast 4

Introduction to book ‘Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society’ 14

Look only at your own faults . 15

Will be screaming in Hell! 15

Perils of backbiting at a glance . 16

Madani visit—one of the 12 Madani activities . 18

Passion for refraining from backbiting by virtue of Madani Channel 19

Introduction to Majlis IT .. 19

The glimpses of blessed biography of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah . 20

Blessed appearance . 20

Achievements of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah . 21

Bahar-e-Shari’at – an encyclopaedia of Hanafi Fiqh . 21

Grief over death . 23

Summary of speech . 23

Sunan and manners of walking . 24

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday . 26

2. All sins forgiven .. 26

3. 70 Portals of mercy . 27

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi 27

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 27

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at 28

1. Good deeds for 1000 days . 28

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship . 28

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Pious Predecessors’ Hatred towards Backbiting

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf. In addition, eating and drinking (water etc.) will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has said: I dreamt about my late neighbour and asked him, ‘ مَا فَعَلَ اللّٰهُ بِكَ ’ i.e. how did Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ treat you?’ He replied: I faced immense hardships. I was even unable to answer the questions of Munkar Nakeer [1] . I thought in my heart that perhaps I have not died in the state of Iman! Meanwhile I heard a voice, ‘You are being punished for using your tongue unnecessarily in the world.’

Then the angels of torment advanced towards me but meanwhile, an extremely handsome personality wearing sweet perfume appeared between me and the torment. He made me recall the answers to the questions of

Munkar Nakeer and I replied accordingly. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The torment was withdrawn from me . I humbly asked that revered personality, ‘May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you! Who are you?’ He replied, ‘I have been created by virtue of your act of sending Salat-‘Alan-Nabi abundantly and I have been assigned to help you in every hardship.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 260)

آپ کا نامِ نامی اے صَلِّ عَلٰی

ہر جگہ ہر مصیبت میں کام آ گیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has sent humans to this world for a brief period of time for a specific purpose, that is, for His own worship. Now, in a short period of time, humans have to do preparation for the long-time troublesome matters of grave and the Judgement Day therefore, they should perform more and more good deeds and try to protect themselves from every type of sin, in particular, the sins which are committed because of the tongue. The sins, committed because of the tongue, have become so widespread in our society that many people do not consider them to be sins. One of them is ‘backbiting’ which is Haraam and an act leading to Hell. Our pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی used to dislike backbiting strongly. They used to avoid backbiting so much that they did not even like to sit wherever backbiting against any Muslim was being committed. Let’s listen to a thought-provoking parable about it.

Parable of backbiting at a feast

Once Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه went to attend a feast. People were talking to each other that so-and-so person had not arrived yet. Upon this, one person said, ‘That fatty is very lazy.’ When Sayyiduna Ibraheem Bin Adham رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه heard this he reproached himself and said, ‘Alas! I am facing this trouble because of my stomach; I have come to a gathering in which backbiting is being committed against a Muslim.’ After saying this, he

left and did not eat anything for three days (due to this grief) and according to another narration, for seven days. (Tanbih-ul-Ghafileen, pp. 89)

Similarly, Sayyiduna Hazm رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: Sayyiduna Maymoon رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not commit backbiting against anyone nor did he let anyone commit backbiting before him, but rather if someone tried to do it, he would prevent him. If the person stopped doing it, so it was alright, otherwise, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would leave the place. (Hilyat-ul-Awliya, vol. 3, pp. 127, Hadees 3418)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! The pious bondmen of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ do not tolerate at all the disrespect of a Muslim! They even turn away from the gatherings and feasts in which backbiting is committed against Muslims. Have we ever walked out of a gathering in which backbiting is being committed? However, it is important to note here that before walking out one must see if he feels that they will understand what he says and will repent of the sin of backbiting then it will become Wajib for him to prevent them from backbiting. Otherwise, he should protect himself from listening to the backbiting at all cost. Further, if there is no fear of conflict and quarrel, he should leave the gathering.

It is necessary for the person advising others or walking out to have the knowledge to the extent by which he can decide whether or not sinful backbiting is being committed. It has also been understood by this parable that calling someone ‘fat’ or ‘lazy’ in his absence is backbiting. ‘Fat’ and ‘lazy’ are two different words, that is, calling an obese person ‘fat’ in his absence, without any Shar’i permission, is also backbiting. Similarly, without Shar’i permission calling someone lazy, idle, worthless, slack, workshy, useless, ignorant, uncivilized, uneducated, illiterate, silly, dumb, unwise, stupid, senseless, crazy, insane, mental etc. are all examples of backbiting.

مِرے سر پہ عِصیاں کا بار آہ مولٰی! بڑھا جاتا ہے دم بدم یا الٰہی

زمیں بوجھ سے میرے پھٹتی نہیں ہے یہ تیرا ہی تو ہے کرم یا الٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Due to lack of Islamic knowledge and due to ignorance it is very difficult to refrain from backbiting, let alone knowing its definition. Unfortunately, nowadays majority of us do not know its definition. Let’s listen to the definition of backbiting.

Shaykh Imam Ahmad Bin Hajar Makki Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: The blessed Islamic scholars رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: To mention the fault which a person has, is called backbiting whether the fault is in his religious matters, worldly matters, personality, character, wealth, children, wife, servant, ‘Imamah, behaviour and manners, clothes, smile, lack of common sense, rudeness, politeness and anything that is related to him. Examples of backbiting against the body: Calling someone else blind, lame, bald, midget (small person), lanky (tall), and black etc. Examples of backbiting against religious matters: Corrupt, thief, deceitful, oppressive, lazy in offering Salah, disobedient to parents etc.

(Az-Zawajir ‘Aniqtiraf-il-Kabaair, vol. 2, pp. 24)

It has been understood that mentioning the fault of a person in his absence, which he has, is called backbiting. If he does not have the fault, then it is called slander which is a more severe sin than backbiting. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم once asked, ‘Do you know what backbiting is?’ It was humbly replied, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم know better.’ Then the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘(Backbiting is that) you talk about your brother in a way which he dislikes.’ It was humbly asked, ‘What if he has the fault?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘If he has the fault that you are talking about, you have committed backbiting against him and if he does not have it (the fault), you have slandered him.’

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1397, Hadees 2589)

Remember! Committing backbiting is a grave sin, totally Haraam and an act leading to Hell. In the Holy Quran, such a person is called like the one who eats the flesh of his dead brother. In Ayah 12 of Surah Al-Hujurat, part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

وَ لَا یَغْتَبْ بَّعْضُكُمْ بَعْضًاؕ-اَیُحِبُّ اَحَدُكُمْ اَنْ یَّاْكُلَ لَحْمَ اَخِیْهِ مَیْتًا فَكَرِهْتُمُوْهُؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not backbite one another. Would any one of you like to eat the flesh of his dead brother? You would not tolerate it!

(Part 26, Surah Al-Hujurat, Ayah 12)

Sadr-ul-Afadil, ‘Allamah Maulana Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated regarding the above-mentioned Ayah: One should not even tolerate backbiting against his Muslim brother because calling him bad behind his back is like eating his flesh after his death because the way a person feels pain if his flesh is cut, similarly backbiting gives pain to his heart and, in fact, honour is more important than the flesh.

The reason of revelation as mentioned in Tafseer Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan: When the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would set out on a Jihad, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would group one poor person with two rich individuals so that the poor person would serve his rich companions and the rich would feed him. This way all would benefit from each other. Similarly, Sayyiduna Salman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was grouped with two individuals. One day, he fell asleep and could not prepare a meal, so his companions sent him to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to get food. Sayyiduna Usamah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ was the servant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم who did not have any food left; he said that he had nothing. Sayyiduna Salman رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ returned and said the same to his companions. When he informed his companions, they replied, ‘Usamah has become stingy.’

When those two people went to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘I can see the colour of flesh in your mouth.’ They humbly said, ‘We have not eaten any meat!’ The Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told them, ‘You have committed backbiting and the one, who backbites against a Muslim, eats the flesh of a Muslim.’ (Tafseer Baghawi, vol. 4, pp. 194)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Committing backbiting has been declared to be the worst deed like eating the flesh of our dead brother. But unfortunately despite this, nowadays majority of Muslims indulge in committing the grave sin of backbiting whether it is the father or the mother, the brother or the sister, the husband or the wife, the mother-in-law or the daughter in-law, the father-in-law or the son-in-law, the teacher or the

student, the employer or the employee, the buyer or the seller, the foreman or the labourer. Similarly, the rich or the poor, the ruler or his subject, the materialist or the religious person, the old or the young and the ones affiliated to religious organizations or worldly institutions all indulge in committing the sin of backbiting. Alas! Nowadays, due to the habit of idle gossip usually none of our gatherings are safe from backbiting.

Many people, who are apparently pious, indulge in this grave sin. They backbite and listen to the backbiting against others, smile and nod their heads in favour of backbiting . Since backbiting is so widespread, people usually turn a deaf ear to the fact that the one who backbites is not a righteous and pious person, but rather deserving of the fire of Hell.

Now let’s listen to a few such sentences which are commonly spoken in our society, but uttering these sentences without Shar’i permission are considered to be the sins like backbiting, slander, having low opinion or telltale. For examples,

1. Worldly person

2. He oppresses his wife.

3. He is not willing to pay back the loan.

4. Thief

5. Treacherous

6. Faithless

7. Betrayer

8. Swindler

1.

2.

3.

4.

9. boring-natured

10. Hard-hearted

11. Disloyal

5.

6.

12. He is ungrateful

13. Stupid

14. Runaway

15. Unintelligent

1. Idiotic

2. He talks foolishly.

3. He is too proud and confident.

4. He is dim-witted.

5. He does not understand anything.

6. He always thinks negatively.

7. He does not fulfil his duty.

8. He consumes Haraam sustenance.

9. Arrogant

1.

10. He is pig-headed.

11. Big-headed

12. Greedy

13. Tight-fisted

14. Stingy

2.

3.

15. He is a miser.

16. He doesn’t listen to anyone.

17. He does not allow anyone to get ahead.

18. He promotes his own skills of leadership.

19. He bosses people around.

20. Fussy

4.

21. He pesters others.

22. Stubborn

23. Sly

5.

6.

24. He has a mercenary attitude.

25. Money is like a magnet for him, wherever he sees it, he moves towards it.

26. He acts as if he owned the place.

27. He acts as if he was the king.

7.

28. He is materialistic.

1. He does not care about the poor.

2. He is money-oriented.

3. Bootlicker

4. Flatterer

5. Spineless

1.

6. Needlessly submissive

7. Pokes nose in every affair.

8. He is shameless; his cell phone was ringing in the Masjid today again.

9. He thinks he is very wise.

10. He is very selfish.

11. Self-centred

12. Such-and-such a person is not religious.

13. What are you talking about our Masjid’s Imam—he is on a salary.

14. Our Muazzin [or such and such a person] establishes relationship with the rich.

15. He is not a practising Muslim.

16. He lacks Islamic knowledge.

17. He does not even know how to offer Salah.

18. Such and such individual is more practising than him.

19. He advises the world, but does not advise his family members; that is why his daughter or sister or wife roams without any pardah (veil).

20. There are many people better than him.

21. He boasts

22. He praises himself a lot.

23. He loves listening to his praise.

24. He is on the road to fame.

25. He only does it for fame.

26. He wants to be praised.

1. He likes to be praised.

2. He is getting fat.

3. He likes to sit at the front.

4. He is passionate about being videoed.

5. Taleteller

6. He is a trouble-maker.

7. Hypocrite

1.

2.

8. Cheat

9. He breaks promises.

10. He has done backbiting;

11. he has slandered such-and-such a person;

12. he has had low opinion;

13. he has told a lie; and

14. committed a bad deed.

15. Loafer

16. Gambler

17. Drunkard

3.

4.

5.

18. Drug addict

19. Nicotine addict

20. Heroin addict

6.

7.

21. Opium addict

22. He is characterless.

23. Intoxicated

8.

24. My father does not care about Halal and Haraam income.

25. My elder brother does not offer Salah.

26. My sister does not make pardah.

27. My parents quarrel with each other.

28. Nobody at my home knows how to recite the Holy Quran.

1. My younger brother watches movies and dramas.

2. He acts like a Sufi but does not offer a single Salah.

3. He did not have money to drink even a cup of tea – how has he bought an expensive car!

4. He must have stolen the money of donation from the Masjid (or Madrasa)!

5. He has consumed Haraam so much that his belly is hanging.

6. He will first talk about himself in the speech, and then he will come to the point.

7. He goes beyond the time allotted to him and eats into the time allotted to other speakers.

8. He is more enthusiastic in big gatherings or Ijtima’.

9. When he needed me, he would call me anytime.

10. Now he does not need me, therefore does not care how I am.

11. (Mother says about her son) When his wife was here, he would call everyday, but now he does not even care about me.

12. He does not consider calling important, I always call him myself.

13. (Mother says) If he does not call his in-laws for two days, he gets upset, but he does not feel anything if he does not call home for months.

14. (Parents say) He has money and time to call others, but no time for us.

15. He has totally forgotten us after his marriage.

16. He deliberately does not call us.

17. His win in the elections was not fair.

18. He has had many people killed.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

19. Bully

8.

9.

10.

11.

20. Terrorist

21. Oppressor

22. Horrible

12.

13.

14.

15.

23. He is hankering after money.

1. He spent the funds inappropriately instead of distributing them to the poor.

2. He runs after the people at the time of gathering votes.

3. Now he does not care for us.

4. He is living in the lap of luxury on the state treasury.

5. We voted for him but he did not give us anything in return.

6. He is a traitor of the state.

Thousands of sentences like these are uttered on daily basis by the people belonging to different classes and fields or they enjoy listening to such sentences, thus filling up their books of deeds with backbiting, slanders, false accusations and taletelling. Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has said: Some people are very strange; they want affirmation for every other statement like the following:

§ You know what I mean.

§ You understood what I meant, didn’t you? (However, teachers and elders can ask such questions when necessary, as they can be beneficial so the concept can be explained if needed.)

§ So, is that ok?

§ I am not wrong, am I?

§ What do you think?

Sometimes there are sentences or remarks which consist of backbiting and are unacceptable but some people showing considerations for others say yes to everything and by doing this they commit the sin of supporting a lie and backbiting! If a person does not have the courage to reform such talkative people, then he had better stay away from them, lest agreeing with such disapproving and sinful remarks of backbiting and slanders lead him to Hell. There are also times when such talkative people utter sentences of Kufr and sentences that lead a person to go astray. They then want to get confirmation of their listeners by saying ‘ am I right? ’ and deprive them of their faith

[Iman]. Because agreeing with Kufr with the soundness and presence of all senses is also Kufr. اَلۡعِيَاذُ بِاللّٰه عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Remember! It is not forbidden to only commit backbiting and taletelling, but it is also forbidden to listen to the backbiting and taletelling against a Muslim silently and interestingly. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has forbidden [us] from singing songs and listening to them, from committing backbiting and listening to it, and from committing taletelling and listening to it. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 560, Hadees 9378)

Shaykh ‘Abdur Ra`oof Munaawi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘The listener of backbiting is also one of the backbiters.’

(Fath-ul-Qadeer, vol. 3, pp. 612, Taht-al-Hadees 3969)

اے کاش! ضرورت کے سوا کچھ بھی نہ بولوں

الله زَباں کا ہو عطا قُفلِ مدینہ

Introduction to book ‘Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society’

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to know further the curse, destructions and perils of a Haraam act that leads to Hell like ‘backbiting’ and to protect yourself and others from it study a great 504-page book named ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society] written by Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه . The study of this book will be very effective for us in order to stay safe from backbiting, taletelling, false accusations and finding faults with Muslims.

The definitions of backbiting, blessed Ayahs and Ahadees and the sayings of pious predecessors on the prohibition of backbiting, incidents of painful torments of those who committed backbiting, disasters of sins [such as taletelling, arrogance etc.] have been mentioned in an extremely easy and impressive manner. Cure of a deadly disease like backbiting, virtues of concealing faults of Muslims, punishment for disclosing faults, hundreds of examples of backbiting on different topics and many other useful Madani

pearls have also been mentioned in an extremely easy and impressive manner. Therefore buy it today from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. Study it yourself and also persuade others to do so. This book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

Look only at your own faults

One of the solutions of staying safe from backbiting is that when you wish to point out the faults of others, you should pay attention to your own faults and should try to overcome them as it is a great privilege to become busy overcoming your own faults.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Good news is for the one whose faults prevent him from finding faults with others.’

(Firdaus bima Soor-il-Khitab, vol. 2, pp. 447, Hadees 3929)

He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم further said: The person who conceals the fault of his brother after seeing it, will be made to enter Paradise.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has stated, ‘Whenever you intend to talk about the faults of someone, remember your own faults.’

(Zamm-ul-Gheebah li Ibn Abid Dunya, pp. 95, Hadees 56)

Sayyiduna Zayd رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘How strange is the person who knows that he has such and such a fault even then considers himself to be a good human, whereas he considers his Muslim brother to be a bad person only on suspicion [or rumours]. (Tanbih-ul-Mughtarrin, pp. 197)

اَوروں کےعیب چھوڑ نظر خوبیوں پہ رکھ

عیبوں کی اپنے بھائی مگر خوب رکھ پرکھ

Will be screaming in Hell!

سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Have you noticed! Words cannot express the excellence and importance that lie in concealing faults! The fortunate person who conceals

the faults of others and does not mention them to others without any Shar’i reason will be made to enter Paradise.

But remember! The more important and useful the thing is for us in the Hereafter the more Satan tries to prevent us from it. Therefore Satan does not want at all that Muslims refrain from finding faults with each other and stay away from committing backbiting against each other. Perhaps that’s why majority of Muslims are busy committing the sins of taletelling, slander, having low opinion, backbiting and revealing faults of each other. No one is ready to conceal the faults of each other, but rather sometimes we proudly mention them to others.

If someone is privileged to conceal the faults of someone else, it is only temporary, but as soon as there is a dispute between him and someone else, he reveals all the faults of that person which were concealed. Alas! There is no fear of the Hereafter whatsoever. Remember! The punishment of Hell is severe and we cannot bear it. Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has stated, ‘Many strong bodies, beautiful faces, and sweet-talking tongues will be screaming in the depths of Hell.’ (Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 152)

Perils of backbiting at a glance

Dear Islamic brothers! It is better for us that we repent sincerely to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make a firm intention to prevent ourselves from the sins like taletelling, backbiting, etc. Otherwise remember! The destructions of backbiting are extremely dangerous. In his 504-page book named ‘ Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan ’ [Backbiting – A Cancer in our Society] Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned perils of backbiting selected from the Quran and Hadees and the sayings of pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی . Let’s listen to them and make a firm intention to refrain from backbiting:

1. Backbiting severs faith.

Backbiting brings about a bad end.

The Du’a of the one who backbites abundantly is not answered.

1. Backbiting deprives a person of the blessings of Salah and Sawm (fast) .

2. Backbiting destroys good deeds.

3. Backbiting burns good deeds.

4. Even if the backbiter repents, he will still be the last to enter Paradise .

5. In short, backbiting is a grave sin, absolutely Haraam and an act leading to Hell.

6. Backbiting is worse than fornication.

7. The one, who backbites against a Muslim, commits the sin that is even severe than usury.

8. If backbiting is put into the ocean, the whole ocean will become smelly.

9. A backbiter will have to eat the dead in Hell .

10. Backbiting is like eating the flesh of the dead brother.

11. A backbiter will be tormented in the grave.

12. A backbiter was peeling his face and chest again and again with his copper nails.

13. A backbiter was being made to eat the flesh cut from his sides.

14. A backbiter will be resurrected looking like a dog on the Day of Judgement.

15. A backbiter will be a monkey of Hell .

16. A backbiter will have to eat his own flesh in Hell.

17. A backbiter will be running between the boiling water and the blazing fire of Hell asking for death. The dwellers of Hell will also be sick of him.

18. A backbiter will be the first to enter Hell .

جَلا دے نہ نارِ جہنّم کرم ہو

پئے بادشاہِ اُمم یا اِلٰہی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani visit—one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! The unnecessary use of the tongue and the destructions of backbiting against Muslims are very harmful in the world and it is what you must have noticed! Therefore we should keep associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami all the time in order to protect ourselves from the destructions of the sins like backbiting etc., along with arising the passion for offering Salah and observing Sawm regularly and practicing Sunnah. We should also actively participate in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqahs. Madani Daurah [Madani visit] is one of the 12 Madani activities through which people are approached and call to righteousness is presented to them.

Calling people to righteousness is such an important act for which all blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام or rather our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself was sent to this world. These blessed personages endured difficulties and troubles but carried out the great tasks of enjoining people to do good and preventing them from the evil in a splendid way. Acting upon the beautiful Sunnah of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم we should have Madani visit and present people the call to righteousness every week. It is an act of great excellence. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ya Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What will be the reward for the one who calls his brother, enjoins him to do good and prevents him from the evil? It was replied: I record the reward of one year’s worship for every Kalimah of his and I feel shy in inflicting the punishment of Hell on him.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 48)

We should associate ourselves with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami in order to protect ourselves from sins, to perform good deeds and to awaken the passion for presenting people the call towards righteousness. Further, we should also persuade our family members to watch Madani Channel in order to develop Madani environment in our homes. For persuasion, let’s listen to a Madani parable of protecting from backbiting, duly adorned with the blessings of Madani Channel.

Passion for refraining from backbiting by virtue of Madani Channel

An Islamic brother from Hyderabad (Pakistan) has said: My family heard a speech of Dawat-e-Islami’s Muballigh on the topic of ‘perils of backbiting’ on Madani Channel, the 100% pure Islamic channel. During the speech, the preacher drew attention to the common words/phrases used for backbiting in our society. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, after listening to the speech we made our mind to refrain from backbiting. Once, I said at home, ‘Younger brother has not come back with such and such a thing; he is very lazy.’ So my mother immediately scolded me saying, ‘You have committed backbiting against him because you have spoken ill of him by calling him very lazy!’ Therefore, I immediately repented of it. Now the family members draw each other’s attention to almost every statement in order to know whether or not what they have talked about falls under the category of backbiting.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction to Majlis IT

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, presently Dawat-e-Islami is serving Islam in almost 103 departments. ‘Majlis IT’ is one of them. The basic aims of this Majlis include, conveying the correct Islamic teachings to the people of the entire world through information technology (IT) and to give them the Madani mind-set of reforming themselves and the people of the entire world.

One of the remarkable achievements of Majlis IT is to present the world-famous Fatawa Razawiyyah and translation of the Holy Quran ‘Kanz-ul-Iman’ of A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the form of software, which is highly commendable. With the cooperation of Majlis Tawqeet, a software has been introduced which is highly effective for the correct timings of Salah on computers and mobile phones etc. More than 200 books can easily be studied through Al-Madinah Library software. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, all these software prepared by Majlis IT can be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دھوم مچی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The glimpses of blessed biography of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah

Dear Islamic brothers! The month of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam has begun. On the second night of this sacred month, the great leader of Sunnis ‘Allamah Mufti Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه departed this life, so his ‘Urs is observed on the 2 nd of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam. Let’s now listen to a few things about the blessed life of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه and attain blessing.

The legendary and leading scholar of Shari’ah and Tareeqah, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was born in 1882 (1300 AH) in a town named Madina-tul-‘Ulama (Ghosi) of East UP, India. His father Hakeem Jamaluddeen and grandfather Khuda Bakhsh رَحِمَهُمَا الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی were experts in the science of medicine. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received his early education from his grandfather, Maulana Khuda Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه at home, thereafter he went to a Madrasah called ‘Naasir-ul-‘Uloom’ and received further education from Maulana Ilahi Bakhsh رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in his hometown. Then, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reached Jaunpur and studied some lessons from his cousin and teacher Maulana Muhammad Siddeeq رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . Thereafter, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه received Islamic education from ‘Allamah Hidayatullah Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, and it is here that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه completed his Dars-e-Nizami (‘Aalim course). He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه then completed Dars-e-Hadees in Pilibhit under the guidance of the ‘teacher of Muhaddiseen’, Maulana Wasee Ahmad Muhaddis Soorti رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه who acknowledged the incredible talents of his promising student in these words: ‘If somebody has learnt from me, it is Amjad Ali’.

(Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 5)

Blessed appearance

Mufti Muhammad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was not only extremely good-looking, but he was also physically very strong. His blessed face was awesome

and elegant with wheaten complexion, wide forehead, big twinkling eyes, thick eye brows and beautiful beard. His blessed body was healthy and he was smart and of medium height. (Sawanih Sadr-ush-Shar’iah, pp. 10)

Achievements of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah

Dear Islamic brothers! ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life in the service of Shari’ah and Tareeqah. In his blessed life, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه achieved such great and amazing success at which even human intellect is astonished. Let’s listen to his few scholarly achievements.

Bahar-e-Shari’at – an encyclopaedia of Hanafi Fiqh

The book ‘ Bahar-e-Shari’at ’ is at the top of Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami’s scholarly achievements. This book is in Urdu language containing essential rulings from beliefs to everyday matters, consisting of 17 parts written by especially Sadr-ush-Shari’ah. It has been narrated that the renowned book of Hanafi jurisprudence, entitled ‘ Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri ’ was compiled by hundreds of Islamic scholars under the supervision of Sayyiduna Shaykh Nizamuddin Mulla Jeewan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the Arabic language, but may I be sacrificed for Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه that the same work in Urdu was done all by himself, and included those rulings from different Islamic books after selecting them for which Fatawa were issued. Furthermore, he also included hundreds of Ayahs and thousands of Ahadees in the book as per the contexts. For expressing the blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه himself stated, ‘If king Aurangzeb ‘Aalamgeer had seen this book (Bahar-e-Shari’at), he would have weighed me in gold.’

It is certainly a great favour of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه upon the Muslims especially of the Subcontinent that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه accumulated rulings on jurisprudence in one place in simple writing, which are generally spread out in voluminous Arabic books. It contains countless such rulings which are absolutely obligatory for every Islamic brother and Islamic sister to learn. Commenting on the causes of writing the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated, ‘There is not a single book written in

the Urdu language until now that consists of correct rulings and is sufficient for the needs.’ (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, pp. 45)

From the same view point, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written this great book. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said at another place, ‘An attempt has been made to a greater possible extent in this book to make the lines easy and comprehensive so that everyone understands it easily and as a result, the less educated, even women and children can also get benefit from it.’ (Tazkirah Sadr-ush-Shari’ah pp. 46)

When the Murshid [spiritual guide] of Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه studied the second, third and the fourth part of Bahar-e-Shari’at, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه expressed his views in praise of the book and the author.

مُصَنّف بھی، مُقَرِّر بھی، فقیہِ عصرِحاضر بھی

وہ اپنے آپ میں تھا اک اِدارہ علم و حکمت کا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Bahar-e-Shari’at contains blessed Ayahs, Ahadees and countless fragrant Shar’i rulings. Surely, by reading this book one can get Shar’i guidance in many matters, or rather his heart and mind will be illuminated with knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, i n order to make this great scholarly treasure of Bahar-e-Shari’at more effective, the Madani Islamic scholars of Dawat-e-Islami’s Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah have simplified this book. Furthermore, at some places efforts have also been made to include references. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the complete book has been published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah and is now available in the market. The simple edition is available in 3 volumes and the colourful dowry edition in 6 volumes; both can be bought from Maktaba-tul-Madinah. In addition to this, the book can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net .

Grief over death

‘Allamah Qaari Muhammad Muslihuddin Siddeeqi Qaadiri رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I was privileged to visit the shrine of Sayyiduna Shah ‘Aalam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه with the author of Bahar-e-Shari’at, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah, Maulana Muhammad Amjad Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . We went under both planks (it is famous that Du’as are answered there). When we completed our Du’as I humbly asked my spiritual guide, Sadr-ush-Shari’ah رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه: Your highness [Huzoor]! What Du’a did you make? He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: To be able to perform Hajj every year. I realized that the motive of his Du’a would be to perform Hajj until he was alive, but this Du’a was well answered; he intended to perform Hajj the very same year and went to Bombay from his province Madina-tul-‘Ulama Ghosi (district Azam Garh India) in order to board the ship for sacred Madinah. But he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه suffered pneumonia over there and before boarding the ship on 6 th September, 1948 (1327 AH, on the 2 nd night of Zul-Qa’da-til-Haraam) at 12:26 departed this life. اِنَّا لِلّٰہِ وَ اِنَّاۤ اِلَیْہِ رَاجِعُوْن

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestow His Divine blessings on him and forgive us without accountability for his sake! Aameen

مدینے کا مسافر ہند سے پہنچا مدینے میں

قدم رکھنے کی بھی نوبت نہ آئی تھی سفینے میں

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard about the protection of the tongue, the perils of backbiting, punishment for sins and terrors.

A backbiter will be the monkey of Hell.

A backbiter will enter Hell first.

A backbiter will have to eat his own flesh in Hell.

A backbiter will be raised looking like a dog on the Judgement Day.

A backbiter will be made to eat the flesh after cutting from his sides.

A backbiter will be scratching his face and chest with copper nails again and again.

A backbiter will be running asking for death between the boiling water and the fire of Hell and the Hell-dwellers will also be sick of him. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable all of us to refrain from backbiting! Aameen

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me, will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners of walking

Let’s listen to the Sunan and manners of walking with the intention of acting upon Sunnahs:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said in Surah Bani Israel, part 15, Ayah 37:

وَ لَا تَمْشِ فِی الْاَرْضِ مَرَحًاۚ-اِنَّكَ لَنْ تَخْرِقَ الْاَرْضَ وَ لَنْ تَبْلُغَ الْجِبَالَ طُوْلًا(۳۷)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And do not walk arrogantly on the earth; undoubtedly, you cannot tear the earth and nor can you reach height of the mountains. (Part 15, Bani Israel, Ayah 37)

1. The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘A man wearing two shawls was strutting [i.e. walking arrogantly]. He was sunk into the ground and he will continue to sink until the Day of Judgement . (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1156, Hadees 2088)

2. When the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم walked, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would lean a little bit forward as though he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was descending from a height. (Shumaail-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 87, Hadees 118)

3. If there is no hindrance, walk on the side of the pathway at a medium pace. Neither walk so fast that people start looking at you in surprise, nor walk too slowly that people consider you to be ill.

4. It is not Sunnah to look here and there (unnecessarily) while walking. Walk in a dignified manner with your gaze lowered.

5. While walking or coming up or down the stairs, make sure that your shoes do not make noise.

6. If two women are standing or walking on the way, do not pass them by walking in between them. It is prohibited in a blessed Hadees to do so.

7. Some people are habitual of kicking whatever comes in their way. It is absolutely an uncivilized manner that may also cause injury to their foot. Furthermore, kicking newspapers or boxes, packets and empty bottles of mineral water with inscriptions on them is also an act of disrespect.

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

