اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Blessings of Jannah

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ﴿مَنۡ صَلَّي عَلَيَّ فِيۡ يَوۡمٍ اَلۡفَ مَرَّ ةٍ لَمۡ يَمُتۡ حَتَّي يَرٰي مَقۡعَدَهُ مِنَ الۡجَنَّ ةِ ﴾ Whoever recites Salat upon me a thousand times daily, he shall not die until he sees his place in Heaven. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 326, Hadees 2590)

منتظر ہیں جنتیں اس کے لیے وِرد ہے جس کا ثَناۓ مُصطَفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah Almighty has prepared the eternal [i.e. everlasting] blessings of Jannah for believers and His obedient bondmen in the Hereafter. Let’s listen to the faith refreshing parables of those blessings in today’s weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’.

First, let us listen that for whom are these magnificent blessings of Jannah are destined. Those believers who continue carrying out virtuous deeds throughout their lives have received the glad tidings of Jannah. As it is stated in Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 124, part 5:

وَ مَنْ یَّعْمَلْ مِنَ الصّٰلِحٰتِ مِنْ ذَكَرٍ اَوْ اُنْثٰى وَ هُوَ مُؤْمِنٌ فَاُولٰٓىٕكَ یَدْخُلُوْنَ الْجَنَّةَ وَ لَا یُظْلَمُوْنَ نَقِیْرًا(۱۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And whoever does virtuous deeds, whether man or woman, and is a Muslim, will be admitted to Paradise and they will not be wronged a bit.

Commenting on this blessed Ayah, Hakeem-ul-Ummat, ‘Allamah Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Whoever human, be it a man or woman, if he or she does good deeds according to his/her ability and is a true believer with correct beliefs, then he/she would be rewarded with the entry into Jannah after the Day of Judgement. The level in Jannah that one would get will be according to one’s deeds. No one will be oppressed to even a slightest bit; as one who deserves a higher level, his level is reduced and is granted a lower level without any reason, such injustice will not take place at all.

(Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 5, pp. 433)

میں ان کے دَر کا بِھکاری ہوں فضلِ مولٰی سے

حسن فقیر کا جنَّت میں بِسترا ہوگا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dwellers of Jannah surrounded by blessings

Dear Islamic brothers! We have learnt that a true believer with correct beliefs will be entered into Jannah as a reward in exchange for his good deeds and he will attain a rank in Jannah according to his good deeds. These blessings have been mentioned in the Glorious Quran at many places. The Glorious Quran illustrates this point in part 27, Surah Al-Waaqi’ah, Ayah number 15 to 24 by stating:

عَلٰى سُرُرٍ مَّوْضُوْنَةٍۙ(۱۵) مُّتَّكِـٕیْنَ عَلَیْهَا مُتَقٰبِلِیْنَ(۱۶) یَطُوْفُ عَلَیْهِمْ وِلْدَانٌ مُّخَلَّدُوْنَۙ(۱۷) بِاَكْوَابٍ وَّ اَبَارِیْقَ ﳔ وَ كَاْسٍ مِّنْ مَّعِیْنٍۙ(۱۸) لَّا یُصَدَّعُوْنَ عَنْهَا وَ لَا یُنْزِفُوْنَۙ(۱۹) وَ فَاكِهَةٍ مِّمَّا یَتَخَیَّرُوْنَۙ(۲۰) وَ لَحْمِ طَیْرٍ مِّمَّا یَشْتَهُوْنَؕ(۲۱) وَ حُوْرٌ عِیْنٌۙ(۲۲) كَاَمْثَالِ اللُّؤْلُؤِ الْمَكْنُوْنِۚ(۲۳) جَزَآءًۢ بِمَا كَانُوْا یَعْمَلُوْنَ(۲۴)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: (The close ones will be) on the thrones coated (with rubies, diamond and pearls etc.). Reclining on them, facing each other. Circulating around them (to serve) shall be immortal boys. Carrying vessels and pitchers, and cups filled with heavenly wine flowing before the eyes. It will not cause the heads to ache (hangover), nor shall it affect their consciousness (by causing Intoxication). And fruits that they may desire. And meat of birds that they may wish. And large-eyed Houris (heavenly maidens). Like pearls kept hidden. As a reward for their deeds.

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see how beautifully these blessed Ayahs of the Glorious Quran depict the blessings of Jannah reserved for the dwellers of Jannah? They will be seated in the gardens reclining on the pillows facing each other peacefully; slaves appointed at their service, carrying goblets and cups filled with beverages at their right and left waiting for their orders; pure wine will be flowing in front of them; they will have their favourite foods and will be entertained with the best of the dry fruits.

In short, dwellers of Jannah will be enjoying the mercy of Allah Almighty in Jannah and will be benefitting from various blessings. Remember! Any blessing that one gets in Jannah cannot be compared to anything of this world even to a slightest bit. The rewards and blessings one will attain in Jannah with the mercy of Allah Almighty have no comparison at all with the things one gets in this world.

Blessed Ahadees

Let’s listen to 3 blessed Ahadees in relation to Jannah:

1 The Blessed and Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ says: I have prepared such bounties for My pious bondmen which no eye has seen, no ear has heard and no human heart has ever perceived. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1516, Hadees 2824)

2 The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: In Paradise, there are one hundred levels. The distance between each level is that of the distance between the earth and sky, and Firdaus is the highest level. Four rivers of Jannah are flowing from there, and the ‘Arsh is above it. So when you beseech in the blessed court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, beseech Him for Firdaus. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2539)

3 The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The place in Jannah equal to the size where a whip can be placed is better than the world and whatever it contains. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 392, Hadees 3250)

قسمت میں غمِ دُنیا، جنَّت کا قبالہ ہو

تقدیر میں لکھا ہو جنّت کا مَزہ کرنا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Truly, there is absolutely no comparison when it comes to the temporary things of this world with the everlasting blessings of Jannah. Undoubtedly, wise is the one who gives preference to the eternal

blessings of Jannah over the mortal & temporary blessings of this world, and tries to obtain those blessings which are everlasting. But, alas, majority of our people are ignorant of this fact and are only lost in the temporary amusements and attractions of this mortal world. Remember! The similarity of this world and its attractions is like a snake which is soft and smooth when it is touched, but its poison is deadly. In exact similar way, this world is also apparently very charming and appealing but in reality, it carries great destruction and devastation. Therefore, do not attach yourself to this world; rather focus to improve your Hereafter. Do good deeds as much as you can before death overcomes you, otherwise you will be left with nothing except deep regret at the time of the Naz’a [time when agonies of death begin].

The Blessed and Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also bestows the world for the sake of virtuous deeds, but does not bestow the Hereafter for the sake of the worldly deeds.’ (Az-Zuhd li Ibn Mubarak, pp. 193, Hadees 549; slightly amended)

Therefore, try to improve your Afterlife; اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ with the blessings of good deeds, not only will you improve your worldly life and the Hereafter, but will also gain the everlasting blessings of Jannah.

ہم نے مانا کہ گُناہوں کی نہیں حد لیکن!

تُو ہے ان کا تو حسن تیری ہے جنّت تیری

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Undoubtedly, it is an extremely challenging task to carry out virtuous deeds to attain Jannah whilst refraining from the desires of worldly wealth and possessions and the love of the world, but if we focus on the comforts and pleasures of the Hereafter, then it will certainly be easier for us to carry out good deeds. Understand it through this example that there are Rs. 100 and Rs. 100,000 placed in front of us and if we are offered to choose either one of them, then certainly every one of us would choose 100,000; not a single wise person would even look towards the Rs. 100. In

exactly same manner, whatever is in this ‘ دُنۡيَا وَ مَا فِيۡهَا ’ [i.e. world and all it contains] is like Rs. 100, whereas the rewards of the Hereafter and the blessings of Jannah are priceless; because the temporary blessings of this world hold no significance in front of the everlasting blessings of Jannah. Therefore, do not chase this world; rather earn for the Hereafter, find pleasure in performing virtues and put efforts to gain Jannah.

مُفلسو! ان کی گلی میں جا پڑو!

باغِ خُلد اِکرام ہو ہی جاۓ گا

In order to obtain persuasion, let’s listen to some blessings of Jannah:

Blessings of Jannah

‘If something so little of Jannah that can be placed on a fingernail were to become apparent in this world, it would beautify all the far corners of the skies and earth; and if the bracelet of a heaven-dweller was to become apparent, it would remove the light of the sun the way sun removes the light of the stars.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 241, Hadees 2547)

‘Various palaces made of gems are in Jannah, which are so clean and transparent that their inside can be seen from the outside and the outside can be seen from the inside.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 281, Hadees 27)

‘The walls of Jannah are built with bricks made of gold and silver and the mortar is of musk.’ (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 10, pp. 732, Hadees 18642)

‘One brick is made of gold, one brick is made of silver, the soil is saffron and instead of pebbles, there are pearls and rubies.’

(Sunan Ad- Daarimi, vol. 2, pp. 429, Hadees 2821)

‘It is stated in another narration that one brick of Jannat-e-‘Adn is made of white pearl, one brick is of red ruby and one brick is of green peridot, the mortar is of musk, saffron is in place of grass, pebbles of pearls and its soil is ambergris.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 283, Hadees 33)

Rivers of Jannah

Jannah has four rivers; one of water, second of milk, third of honey and fourth one of wine. Streams are flowing from these rivers, reaching everyone’s house. These streams there do not flow by digging the ground, but flow above the ground. One shore of the streams is made of pearls and the other of rubies. The riverbeds are made of pure Musk.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 315, Hadees 5734/35)

The wine of Jannah is not like the wine of this world which smells terrible, bitter and intoxicates people, making them lose their senses; and then they become abusive losing control over themselves. The pure wine of Paradise is free from all such faults. (Tafseer Ibn Kaseer, vol. 7, pp. 289)

Foods of Jannah

The food will be delicious and of all varieties in Jannah, and whatever is desired will be presented immediately. (Tafseer Ibn Kaseer, vol. 1, pp. 155)

‘Upon seeing a bird, if one would desire to eat its meat, its meat would be immediately made available to them duly roasted.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 292, Hadees 73)

‘When one would desire for water etc., goblets will appear in their hands automatically, containing the right amount of water, milk, wine and honey. The quantity will be exactly according to their desire, not one drop more, nor less. After drinking the beverage, the goblets will return back where they came from.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 290, Hadees 66)

‘All the food will be digested producing a pleasant fragrant burp and perspiration which will give out a smell like that of musk.’ (Sahih Muslim, pp. 152, Hadees 2835)

Abundance of servants

‘Each dweller of Jannah will have a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) servants at his bedside and each servant will be holding a silver bowl in one hand and a gold bowl in the other hand, and each bowl will contain different blessings.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 291, Hadees 70)

The more one eats, its taste will not decrease, in fact it will increase. Each morsel would have 70 tastes and every taste will be more distinctive than the other one. He will feel all these tastes together and the sense of one taste will not stop that of the other. The clothing of the dwellers of Jannah would not get worn out, nor would their youth come to an end.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 1521, Hadees 2836)

Markets of Jannah and beholding Allah Almighty

‘There is no sleep in Jannah, because sleep is a form of death.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 266, Hadees 199)

And there is no death in Jannah. When the dwellers of Jannah enter Jannah, they will attain their ranks according to the virtue of their good deeds and there is no limit of His Divine mercy. They will be granted the permission to behold their Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ after the length of a week of this world; the Divine throne will appear and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will reveal a Divine Manifestation in one of the gardens of Jannah. Then towering pulpits of Noor (light), pearl, ruby, peridot, gold and silver will be laid down for the dwellers of Jannah; and the most inferior of them will sit upon a mound of musk and camphor, and no one among them is inferior. Within their own presumption, they will not consider those sitting on the chairs to be superior than them; the Blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will be as clear and apparent as the sun and the moon (on a night when it is full) is viewed by everybody from wherever they stand as nobody blocks other’s view while seeing. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will descend His blessed Manifestation upon everyone and will say to one amongst them: ‘O so and so, son of so and so, do you remember the day when you did such and such thing?’ He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will remind him of some of his sins in the world; so he will humbly say: ‘O Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you not forgiven me?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will reply: ‘Indeed! It is by the vastness of My Forgiveness that you reached this status of yours.’

So while they are in this very state, they will be covered by a cloud that will shower fragrance upon them, such a fragrance whose smell they had never smelt before. And Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say, ‘Go towards the honour that I have prepared for you and take whatever you desire’. Then people will go to a

market which is surrounded by the angels. There will be such things there which no eyes have seen the like of, nor any ear has heard of, and nor have these things ever perceived by anyone’s heart. Whatever they like will be granted to them and there will be no buying and selling in this market. The dwellers of Jannah will meet each other in this market. The Jannah-dweller with a lower rank will see and would like the garment of the Jannah-dweller with a higher rank. Their conversation will not come to an end and the lower-ranked Jannah-dweller will presume that his clothing is better than the higher-ranked Jannah-dweller, and that is because there is no grief and sorrow for anybody in Jannah. They will then return to their houses from there and their wives will welcome them saying (while congratulating): ‘You have returned, and your beauty is a lot greater than when you left us.’ They will reply: ‘Today we had the privilege of sitting in the blessed court of our Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ and this is the reason that we have become so.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 246, Hadees 2558)

‘When Jannah-dwellers will wish to meet each other, then the throne of one will approach the throne of other.’ (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 4, pp. 304, Hadees 115)

In another narration it is stated: Excellent rides and horses will be brought to them, and they will be carried on them wherever they desire.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 244, Hadees 2553)

‘The Jannah-dweller with the lowest rank will be the one who will have his gardens, wives, bounties, servants and throne up to the distance of a thousand (1000) years; and the most reverend amongst them in the sight of Allah Almighty is the one who will be privileged to behold Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ every morning and evening.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 249, Hadees 2562)

When the Jannah-dwellers will enter Jannah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say to them: ‘Is there anything else that you want Me to provide for you?’ They will humbly say: ‘You have brightened our faces, entered us into Jannah, and granted us salvation from Hell.’ At that time, the veiling will be lifted which was overspread upon the creation and they wouldn’t have received anything more superior than the blessed sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 110, Hadees 181)

عَفو کر اور سَدا کے لیے راضی ہو جا!

گر کرم کر دے تو جنّت میں رہوں گا یا رَبّ!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Strive for Jannah

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you seen the marvellous blessings that Jannah-dwellers will obtain? Besides gaining the eternal life in exchange of good deeds as a reward, Jannah-dwellers will enjoy a fragrant Heavenly drink, tents made of pearls, towering pulpits adorned with exceptional Heavenly pillows on the shores of the streams of honey and pure wine, dazzling crowns embedded with pearls, surrounded by Heavenly servants will lead a carefree life with absolutely no worries.

We should also strive to attain all these marvellous blessings. Sayyiduna Imam Muhammad Bin Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Certainly, surprising is the one who carries a firm conviction about the grand house of Jannah, acknowledges its praises and believes that the one who dwells in it will never die, that person knows that one who enters this house will never be afflicted with any grief and distress, those who dwell in it will never change and will always lead a calm and peaceful life; in spite of knowing all these facts, he finds pleasure in such a house which will be deserted and ruined; and its comforts and luxuries will vanish. By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, if there had been only the advantage of having no fear of death in Jannah, a human could have lived fearlessly in the face of difficulties like hunger, thirst, and all other calamities. Moreover, if there had not been other rewards, still Jannah was such that the world could have been abandoned for it; and one would not have prioritised such thing over Jannah that is mortal and perishing instead of living like fearless kings in Jannah, surrounded by comfort and happiness, the one whose every desire is fulfilled, is among those who go in the proximity of ‘Arsh-e-A’zam everyday, is among those who behold Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with such unique sight through which they did not use to see the blessings of Jannah,

who do not turn away from these blessings, who always remain with these blessings and bounties which will never come to an end.

(Mukashafa-tul-Quloob, pp. 244)

Dear Islamic brothers! How surprising it is that if any of our neighbours or relatives constructs a grand mansion or he buys a new car or elevates his worldly status in any form, we try to compete with him and strive to do better. But, alas! When we look at the pious and virtuous people, why don’t we aspire that we should also struggle to attain higher ranks in Jannah as these pious people do; we should also become punctual with our Salah, recite the Glorious Quran, become a practical example of Sunnahs, act upon the Madani In’amaat, travel with Madani Qafilahs with punctuality, attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ [congregation] of Dawat-e-Islami from beginning to end. Remember! Where people have been divided into different levels according to their apparent worshipping and good manners similarly is the division in the levels of rewards. Therefore, if we aspire to attain the highest levels, then we must exert our full efforts in this regard. It is stated in the Glorious Quran, part 4, Surah Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 133:

وَ سَارِعُوْۤا اِلٰى مَغْفِرَةٍ مِّنْ رَّبِّكُمْ وَ جَنَّةٍ عَرْضُهَا السَّمٰوٰتُ وَ الْاَرْضُۙ-اُعِدَّتْ لِلْمُتَّقِیْنَۙ(۱۳۳)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And rush towards forgiveness from your Lord, and towards a Paradise that can hold all the heavens and the earth in its width - prepared for the pious.

Commenting on this blessed Ayah, Maulana Mufti Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The word ‘ rush ’ here refers to repentance, fulfilling obligations, and adopting the deeds of obedience and sincerity. (I.e., along with seeking repentance of your sins in the court of Allah Almighty, through performing obligatory actions such as Salah, observing Sawm etc., and carrying out other Shar’i commandments sincerely, rush towards the forgiveness of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Jannah, as these paths lead to Jannah.)

کل نارِ جَہنَّم سے حسن امن و اماں ہو

اس مالکِ فردوس پہ صَدَقے ہوں جو ہم آج

“Madani Daurah”, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! In order to attain Jannah, we should act upon virtuous actions abundantly and should not observe any kind of laziness in it. In order to get the enthusiasm of performing virtuous deeds, associate yourself with the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, Dawat-e-Islami, and participate profusely in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah in order to bring progression in the virtuous deeds. Among the 12 Madani activities of the Zayli Halqah, one Madani activity is also “Madani Daurah” (Madani visit).

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Calling someone towards righteousness and forbidding them from evil is an extremely wonderful action. Therefore, it is stated in a blessed Hadees that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was humbly asked, ‘Who is best among people?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘The one who fears his Lord Almighty the most, the one who treats his relatives kindly the most, and the one who invites towards righteousness and forbids from evil.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 220, Hadees 7950)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! With the blessings of the “Madani Daurah”, Madani work spreads excessively in the area. Due to the blessings of the “Madani Daurah”, new Islamic brothers come close to the Madani environment. Due to the blessings of the “Madani Daurah”, those who abandon Salah have the privilege of offering Salah. Therefore, for the betterment of our world and Hereafter, we should ensure our participation in the “Madani Daurah”. اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, you will reap immense blessings of it. Let’s listen to a Madani parable of the Madani Daurah for persuasion:

A non-Muslim embraced Islam

A preacher of Dawat-e-Islami from Khanpur (Punjab, Pakistan) has stated: A Sunnah-inspiring Madani Qafilah came to our city from Bab-ul-Madinah Karachi . Along with the participants of the Madani Qafilah, I was also privileged to take part in the ‘Madani Daurah’ [area visit to call people

towards righteousness]. Gathering people outside a tailor shop we presented the ‘call to righteousness.’ When the speech ended, a young worker from the shop said, ‘I am a non-Muslim. Your ‘call to righteousness’ has made a profound impact on my heart. Please make me a Muslim’. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he then embraced Islam.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Virtuous deeds are the path leading to Jannah, and certainly it would also be the desire of each one of us to receive the pleasure of Heavenly gardens and extraordinary Heavenly blessings. So remember! Virtuous deeds play a role of a bridge leading to Jannah. Therefore, we should also carry out virtuous deeds in abundance.

Abundance of Nawafil (supererogatory prayers)

It is reported that Sayyiduna Azhar Bin Mughees رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was an extremely devotional worshipper. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I saw such a woman in my dream who was not like the women of this world. I asked her, ‘Who are you?’ She replied, ‘I am a Heavenly Hoor [maiden]’. Listening to this, I said to her, ‘Marry me’. She replied, ‘Send a proposal for my marriage to my Owner and pay my Mahr (obligatory bridal money given by the husband to his wife at the time of marriage)’. I asked, ‘What is your Mahr?’ She replied, ‘Offering Salah till late at night’. (Al-Mutajir-ur-Raabih, pp. 187; Jannat mayn Lay Jaanay walay A’maal, pp. 148)

وہ تو نہایت سستا سودا بیچ رہے ہیں جنّت کا

ہم مُفلِس کیا مَول چُکائیں اپنا ہاتھ ہی خالی ہے

Excellence of Istighfar (seeking forgiveness)

Dear Islamic brothers! Offer optional prayers of Ishraq, Chasht and Tahajjud and make yourselves deserving of Jannah. Move your tongue a little, recite ‘ اَسۡتَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهَ الۡعَظِيۡمَ ’ and gain the ‘Heavenly Hoors [maidens]’. Therefore, one blessed saint رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه worshipped Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for forty years. He once

supplicated to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Show me a glimpse in the world of whatever I will be rewarded in Jannah with Your Mercy. He was in the middle of his supplication that all of a sudden, the Mihrab (prayer niche) split open, producing a beautiful Heavenly Hoor. She said: You will be rewarded 100 Heavenly Hoors [maidens] like me in Jannah, each one will have 100 maids and each maid will have 100 subordinate maids and each subordinate maid will have 100 maid-assistants. Having listened to this, the blessed saint was overjoyed and questioned her: ‘Will anybody gain more than me in Jannah?’ She replied: ‘This much is for every such ordinary Jannah-dweller who recites ‘ اَسۡتَغۡفِرُ اللّٰهَ الۡعَظِيۡمَ ’ in the morning and evening.’ (Raud-ur-Riyaheen, pp. 55)

یہ مَرحمتیں کہ کچی مَتیں، نہ چھوڑیں لَتیں، نہ اپنی گتیں

قُصُور کریں اور ان سے بھریں قَصُورِ جناں تمہارے لیے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that the one who recites Istighfar in the morning and evening will be rewarded with Heavenly Hoors [maidens]. Similarly, ‘spreading Salam’ and ‘feeding people’ are such blessed acts which are the source of attaining Jannah and gaining higher ranks in it.

Where a person elevates his prestige and honour by cultivating the habit of spreading Salam and giving others something from his own self, such a man is also regarded amongst those fortunate people who have the glad tidings of Jannah. Therefore, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: ‘Spread Salam and feed [others], you will enter Jannah.’

(Al-Ihsan Bittarteeb Sahih Ibn Habbaan, vol. 1, pp. 356, Hadees 489)

سُنَّتیں اپنا کے حاصل بھائیو! رَحمتِ مَولٰی سے جنَّت کیجئے!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Likewise, taking no revenge despite having the ability and power to do so is also such a great act which not only keeps relations intact but also is the Mi’raaj of honour in the Hereafter.

It is stated in a blessed Hadees: ‘Whoever suppresses his anger despite being able to implement it, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will call him before the people in order to grant him the authority to choose any Heavenly Hoor [maiden] he desires.’

(Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 462, Hadees 4186)

Indeed, what else can be superior than the fact that on the Day of Judgement which will be full of tribulations, Allah Almighty calls someone and grants him blessings and bounties.

بِلا حساب ہو جنّت میں داخِلہ یا رَبّ!

پڑوس خُلد میں سَروَر کا ہو عَطا یا رَبّ!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Similarly, we should also develop the habit of reciting the Glorious Quran in order to increase the virtuous deeds and earn the reward of the Hereafter. Undoubtedly, by the blessings of it, where doors of mercy and blessings are opened, there is also a glad tiding of receiving excellent ranks in Jannah in the blessed Hadees.

The Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The reciter of Quran will be told to continue reciting the Quran and keep ascending the stages of Jannah, and recite it slowly as you used to recite it slowly in the world. Your abode will be where you recite the last Ayah. (Sunan Abi Dawood, Hadees 1464)

شاد ہے فردوس یعنی ایک دن

قسمتِ خُدام ہو ہی جاۓ گا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you see that what amazing blessings one receives who recites the Glorious Quran correctly and slowly! Such person will be told to continue reciting the Quran and keep elevating his ranks in Jannah. Therefore, we should also try to recite the Glorious Quran as much as we can.

In today’s troublesome era, we should enrol our children into Madaris-ul-Madinah and Jami’aat-ul-Madinah for their religious and moral development; because nowadays, the biggest evil among evils is the ignorance which comes at the top of the list along with other evils of the society. Whether it is a domestic matter or a business matter, matter pertaining our friends or whether it is our relatives, whether it is about a marriage or the good upbringing of the offspring, in short, whether it is Huqooqullah [rights of Allah Almighty] or Huqooq-ul-Ibaad [rights of people], whichever walk of life we find evils in, if we contemplate upon the reasons seriously, then it would become evident to us that the basic and biggest reason for this is the distance from ‘Ilm-e-Deen [knowledge of Deen].

Due to the lack of ‘Ilm-e-Deen and deprivation from the correct guidance, not only [day to day] affairs and moral conducts are being affected, but beliefs and acts of worship are also rapidly getting severely harmed through different types of evils. To stop these evils, only acquiring ‘Ilm-e-Deen is not sufficient, but acting upon the knowledge you possess and trying to reform others through your knowledge is also important. This is the reason why Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given his Mureeds, admirers and all those who are associated with him the Madani mindset to remain engaged in reforming themselves and others while giving them the following Madani aim: I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Introduction of the department ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah’

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Pursuing the same Madani aim, Dawat-e-Islami is striving to serve the Sunnahs in more or less 104 departments. One department among them is ‘Jami’a-tul-Madinah’. Due to the fondness of Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه with knowledge and his eagerness to

propagate the knowledge of Deen, hundreds of Jami’aat have been established within Pakistan and abroad under the supervision of ‘Majlis Jami’a-tul-Madinah’. The very first campus of Jami’a-tul-Madinah was opened in 1995 on the second floor of Madrasa-tul-Madinah Godhra Colony, Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi, Pakistan), an area of New Karachi. Then Jami’aat-ul-Madinah started growing day by day and established all over the world.

Moreover, at present, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the total number of Jami’aat-ul-Madinah in Pakistan and abroad is 546 (five hundred and forty six). The number of (male and female) students studying in those Jami’aat is around 40,109 (forty thousand one hundred and nine). You too, get your children admitted in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. Do individual efforts on your brothers, friends, loved ones and other relatives and give them the mindset of enrolling their children into Jami’a-tul-Madinah. It will not only spread the light of knowledge all around and alleviate the darkness of ignorance, but will also become a means of Sadaqah Jariyah for you, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Persuasion of I’tikaf

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! During Ramadan, collective I’tikaf of the entire month and last 10 days takes place under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami. You too, make the intention of participating in this I’tikaf. With its blessings, along with learning plenty of ‘Ilm-e-Deen, you will also learn how to recite the Glorious Quran with correct pronunciation, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Observing I’tikaf has numerous virtues. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Whosoever observes I’tikaf even for a single day seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will create three trenches between him and the Hell, the distance of each trench will be greater than that of East and West. (Ad-Durr-ul-Mansoor, vol. 1, pp. 486)

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder over the fact that the one who observes I’tikaf for a single day seeking the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will create three trenches between him and the Hell. Then one who observes I’tikaf for the last 10 days of Ramadan, what great and excellent rewards and honours he will be blessed with; as the reward of good deeds in Ramadan is

multiplied many folds. Therefore, take advantage of this opportunity in life and prepare for the last 10 days Sunnah I’tikaf in Ramadan, in fact, privilege yourself to observe I’tikaf from today and become deserving of immense rewards.

رحمتیں لوٹنے کے لیے آؤ تم مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اِعتکاف

سُنَّتیں سیکھنے کے لیے آؤ تم مَدَنی ماحول میں کر لو تم اِعتکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

Sunan and manners about recitation of the Holy Quran

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to a few Madani pearls about recitation of the Holy Quran. First, listen to the following two sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

٭ The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever learnt and taught the Holy Quran, and then acted upon whatever is in the Holy Quran; the Quran will intercede for him and take him into Paradise. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 10, pp. 198, Hadees 10450; Tareekh Dimashq, vol. 41, pp. 3)

٭ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The most excellent worship of my Ummah is recitation of the Holy Quran.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 2, pp. 354, Hadees 2022)

٭ It is Mustahab to perform Tilawat in the state of Wudu, facing the Qiblah, and whilst wearing good garment. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

Announcement

Further important Madani pearls about ‘ recitation of the Holy Quran ’ will be mentioned during the Tarbiyyati Halqahs. So, please attend the Tarbiyyati Halqahs to learn about these Madani pearls.

٭ It is Mustahab to recite Ta’awwuz ‘ اَعُوۡذُ بِاللّٰه ’ when beginning Tilawat, and it is Sunnah to recite Tasmiyah ‘ بِسۡـمِ اللّٰه ’ at the start of a Surah, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, part 3, pp. 550)

٭ To recite the Holy Quran by looking at it is preferable to reciting it from memory as this is reciting as well as seeing and touching it with hand; and all of these acts are worship. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 550)

٭ It is preferred to recite the Holy Quran in an audible voice, as long as it doesn’t cause trouble for anybody who is praying, anybody who is ill or anybody who is asleep. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 497)

٭ Listening to the recitation of the Holy Quran is better than reciting the Holy Quran or offering Nafl Salah [supererogatory prayer]. (Ibid)

٭ When the Holy Quran is recited aloud, it is Fard on all attendees to listen to it provided they have congregated for the purpose of listening. Otherwise, it is sufficient if one of them listens, while others may carry out their activities. (Fatawa Razawiyyah – referenced, vol. 23, pp. 353)

٭ If, when reciting in the Masjid, other people are present who are offering Salah or reciting invocations, you should recite in such a volume that only you can hear; the sound should not reach the person next to you.

٭ When the recitation of the full Quran is completed, it is better to recite Surah Al-Ikhlas 3 times. This also applies when offering Taraweeh Salah; however, if completion is being done in Fard Salah, do not recite Surah Al-Ikhlas more than once. (Ghunya-tul-Mutamalli, pp. 496)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

