اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Name of Muhammad— The Apple of Eye

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, because as long as you stay in the Masjid, you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid; even Sehri, Iftar, drinking Zam Zam water etc., are not allowed, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf, he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلّ, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat Alan Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has appointed an angel to my grave who has been granted the ability to hear the voice of every creature. Hence, he presents me the name of the one who would recite Salat upon me until the Judgement Day along with his father’s

name, [and] says, ‘So and so has recited Salat upon you this time.’ (Al-Musnad-uz-Bazzaar, vol. 4, pp. 255, Hadees 1425)

کَربَلا والوں کا صَدَقَہ یا نبی! دُور ہوں رَنج و اَلَم چَشمِ کرم

وِردِ لَب ہر دَم دُرُودِ پاک ہو یا شَہِ عَرَب و عَجَم! چَشمِ کرم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How fortunate indeed is the Salat reciter that his name along with his father’s name is presented in the blessed court of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . This point is also a highly faith-enlightening here that the blessed angel appointed to the most sacred grave has been granted such a great power and ability of hearing that he can even listen to the extremely low voice of millions of Salat reciters across the world. Imagine, when this is the hearing power and knowledge of unseen of the servant appointed to the blessed tomb for carrying out services, then what will be the greatness and eminence of the authorities and knowledge of the unseen of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Why will he not recognise his devotees and why will he not help them after listening to their pleas with the permission of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ?

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes, the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Pious predecessor who did not say the blessed name of ‘Muhammad’ without Wudu

It is stated in the book ‘ Guldastah Durood-o-Salam ’ published by Maktaba-tul- Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami: The renowned king, Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was a great Islamic scholar who would offer Salah, observe Siyam and recite the Holy Quran regularly. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent his entire life in accordance with the teachings of Islam, and fought many battles for the eminence of Islam and propagation of Kalimatullah, and made many conquests. Not only was he a courageous and brave leader, but

he was also a great devotee of Rasool. His obedient slave ‘Ayyaaz’ had a son namely ‘Muhammad’. Whenever Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه wanted to call him, he would call him by his name. One day, Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه called him by saying, ‘O the son of Ayyaaz!.’ Ayyaaz presumed that the king was annoyed today, that’s why he did not call his son by name. Ayyaaz went to his court and humbly asked, ‘Has my son made any mistake today because you did not call him by his name?’ Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied, ‘Your son’s name is ‘Muhammad’. I do not call him by name without Wudu for the sake of the reverence for the name ‘Muhammad’. Since I was not in Wudu at that time, I did not consider it to be appropriate to say the name ‘Muhammad’ without Wudu.

(Ruh-ul-Bayan, vol. 7, pp. 185)

لب پہ آ جاتا ہے جب نامِ جناب

منہ میں گُھل جاتا ہے شہدِ نایاب

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that the famous devotee of Rasool, Mahmood Ghaznavi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه had a very beautiful manner of expressing devotion! Undoubtedly, he completely became embodiment of the devotion to Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Since the blessed name bears a relation to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه did not say the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ as a token of reverence without Wudu. Although it is permissible as per Shari’ah to say the name ‘Muhammad’ without Wudu, but his devotion did not allow him to do so. For example, if he ever found himself in a situation in which he had no choice, but to say the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ and that time he would not be in Wudu, so he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would use any other appropriate name as a token of respect.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it is the Sadaqah (reward) of respecting the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ that these respectful personages are famous and regarded everywhere. Therefore, following the footsteps of these devotees of Rasool, we should also form the habit of respecting the name ‘Muhammad’ and the

Muslims whose names are ‘Muhammad’. We have been commanded to treat them well in blessed Ahadees. Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, Sayyiduna ‘Ali-ul-Murtada کَـرَّمَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی وَجۡـھَـهُ الۡـکَـرِیۡم has narrated that the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: When you name your son ‘Muhammad’, respect him and give him space to sit in a gathering and do not speak ill of him. (Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 49 Hadees 706)

It is stated in another blessed Hadees, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: When you name your son ‘Muhammad’, you should not beat him, nor should you deprive him [of anything]. (Musnad Al-Bazzaar, vol. 9, pp. 327, Hadees 3883)

آنکھوں کا تارا نامِ مُحمّد

دِل کا اُجالا نامِ مُحمّد

اَللهُ اَکبَر رَبُّ العُلا نے

ہر شے پہ لِکھا نامِ مُحمّد

ہیں یُوں تو کَثرت سے نام لیکن

سب سے ہے پیارا نامِ مُحمّد

صَلِّ عَلٰی کا سہرا سجا کر

دُولہا بنایا نامِ مُحمّد

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How glorious is the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ as the fortunate person who is named ‘Muhammad’, becomes deserving of respect and reverence because of this blessed name. Therefore, in general, all and in particular, those whose names are ‘Muhammad’, should be given tremendous respect and reverence.

Remember! This manner of respect can only be understood when we respect the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in a real manner. It is absolutely essential

for all of us to respect and revere the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The reverence for a Nabi is not only absolute Fard (obligatory), but it is also the essence of all the Fard acts. A little insult or denying any Nabi is Kufr. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 1, vol. 1, pp. 47)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is also commanding us to respect and revere the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the Holy Quran. In Ayah 9 of Surah Al-Fath, part 26, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

لِّتُؤْمِنُوْا بِاللّٰهِ وَ رَسُوْلِهٖ وَ تُعَزِّرُوْهُ وَ تُوَقِّرُوْهُؕ-وَ تُسَبِّحُوْهُ بُكْرَةً وَّ اَصِیْلًا(۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: In order that, O people, you may believe in Allah and His Messenger, and honour and revere the Messenger (Rasool Muhammad).

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The most important thing is faith, because without faith, the reverence for Rasool is not acceptable. Reverence for Rasool is after faith as without reverence, no Salah and no worships are acceptable. Generally, everyone is the bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but the true bondman of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the one who is the slave of Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Otherwise he will be the slave of Satan. اَلْعِیَاذُبِاللہِ تَعَالٰی (Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat, pp. 123)

Whereas, in Ayah 63 of Surah An-Noor, part 18, teaching the manner of calling out the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

لَا تَجْعَلُوْا دُعَآءَ الرَّسُوْلِ بَیْنَكُمْ كَدُعَآءِ بَعْضِكُمْ بَعْضًاؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Do not presume among yourselves the calling of the Noble Rasool equal to your calling one another.

In the exegesis of above-mentioned blessed Ayah, Imam-ul-Mufassireen, Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has said: At first, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was called ‘Ya Muhammad’, ‘Ya Abal Qaasim’ (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), but when Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ prohibited calling His Rasool in the normal manner due to reverence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, then the blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم would say ‘Ya Nabiyyallah’, ‘Ya Rasoolallah’. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 19)

Regarding the commentary of the above-mentioned blessed Ayah, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: (Do not call like this) O Zayd! O ‘Amr! But rather humbly say: Ya Rasoolallah, Ya Nabiallah, Ya Sayyid-al-Mursaleen, Ya Khaataman Nabiyyeen, Ya Shafi’-al-Muznibeen صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Therefore, Islamic scholars explain that it is Haraam to call the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by name! One who is not called by name by His Rab, how dare we [the servants] do so? Imam Zaynuddin Maraaghi, etc., Muhaqqiqeen رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی have said: If this word is mentioned in any Du’a that is taught to us by the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself, such as ‘ یَا مُحَمَّدُ اِنِّی تَوَجَّھْتُ بِکَ اِلٰی رَبِّی ’ O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I turn to my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ through you (your Waseelah). (Sunan Ibn Majah, vol. 2, pp. 156, Hadees 1385), then one should say ‘Ya Rasoolallah’, Ya ‘Nabiallah’ in place of it, though changes are not made as far as possible in the words of Du’a. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 156-157)

نُوح و خَلیل و مُوسٰی و عِیسٰی سب کا ہے آقا نامِ محمد

دَولَت جو چاہو دونوں جہاں کی کر لو وَظیفہ نامِ محمد

پائیں مُرادیں دونوں جہاں میں جس نے پُکارا نامِ محمد

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How dear is the reverence for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his name to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In His Holy Book, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded His bondmen to have respect for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his blessed name. Therefore, acting upon the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and the sayings of blessed commentators, we

should get into the habit of calling the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with great respect and reverence always by his Sifaati (attributive) names such as Ya Rasoolallah, Ya Habiballah, etc. Generally, all the names of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are certainly worthy of reverence and respect and are dear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but amongst them the glory of the name ‘Ahmad’ and ‘Muhammad’ is unique because these are two blessed names which are very dear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

Blessed names dear to Allah

‘Allamah Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: ‘Muhammad’ and ‘Ahmad’ are the blessed names of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and it is obvious that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself chose both these names for His beloved. Had these both names not been very dear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would not have chosen them for His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 3, pp. 601)

Then every wise person can easily understand the importance and excellence of the name ‘Muhammad’ amongst these two blessed names, but regretfully, the evils of ignorance are increasing in our society as we have been getting away from the blessed Nabawi era. A very glaring example of it is that some unwise people search such names for their children which are not given to anyone in the home, family, neighbourhood, etc. Whoever hears them, feels surprised and says: How excellent the name is! O! We have heard this name first time, etc., etc. Similarly, some unwise people choose meaningless names for their children or مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ name their children after the names of non-Muslims, اَلْاَمَان وَالْحَفِیْظ .

Surely, all this is the result of lack of Islamic knowledge and having no awareness of choosing names for children. Remember! Names are not only related to the worldly life, but rather people will also be called by the same names on the Day of Judgement by which they are called in the world. Sayyiduna Abu Darda رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘On the Day of Judgement, you will be called by your names and your fathers’ names. Therefore, choose good names.’

(Abu Dawood, vol. 4, pp. 374, Hadees 4948)

So parents should not give their children such names at all due to which they themselves and their children have to face insult and shame in front of everyone on the Judgement Day. However, make your mind to name your sons after the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام and pious predecessors رَحِمَهُمُ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰی, whereas name your daughters after Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen and Sahabiyyat رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُنَّ and female pious saints رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْـهِنَّ because these names are very blessed; particularly, the name, ‘Muhammad’ is great. It is the blessed name whose blessings are found in Kalimah Tayyibah, the Holy Quran, Azan, Salah, recitation of the Holy Quran, Salat and Salam and Islamic books etc. Similarly, the name ‘Muhammad’ is famous and possesses eminence everywhere, whether it is the west and the east, the north and the south, the earth and the sky.

According to a survey, the name that is chosen most in the world is the name ‘Muhammad’. Therefore, if we also want to attain the blessings of this sacred and blessed name, so one of the best means of attaining them is to name our sons ‘Muhammad’ so that this blessed name can become the source of our forgiveness and salvation and by virtue of its blessing, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ may grant us entrance in Paradise. For persuasion, let’s listen to five sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم comprising the virtues of the name ‘Muhammad’:

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Whoever has a son and out of love for me, and to obtain the blessings of my name, he names him ‘Muhammad’, then both he [the father] and his son will enter Jannah. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 16, pp. 185, Hadees 45215)

2. The Dastar-Khuwan [a cloth on which food is served] at which there is someone by the name ‘Ahmad’ or ‘Muhammad’, so at that place, blessings will be showered twice every day. (Musnad-ul-Firdaus, vol. 2, pp. 323, Hadees 56525)

3. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Blessings will be showered till Judgement Day, in the morning and in the evening upon the one who names [his child] after me with the hope of attaining blessings. (Kanz-ul- ‘Ummal, vol. 16, pp. 185, Hadees 45213)

1. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Two persons will be brought to the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ on the Day of Judgement. It will be commanded: ‘Take both of them to Paradise.’ They will humbly ask: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! For which deed have we become deserving of Paradise, [though] we have not performed any [such] Paradise-deserving act.’ It will be said: ‘Go to Paradise. I have taken an oath that the one whose name is ‘Ahmad’ or ‘Muhammad’ will not go to Hell.’ (Musnad Al-Firdaus, vol. 2, pp. 503, Hadees 8515)

2. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said, ‘I swear to My Honour and Majesty! I will not torment the one who is named after you’. (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 1, pp. 345, Hadees 1243)

پُوچھے گا مَولٰی لایا ہے کیا کیا میں یہ کہوں گا نامِ مُحمّد

غَم کی گھٹائیں چھائی ہیں سَر پر کر دے اِشارہ نامِ مُحمّد

رَنج و اَلَم میں ہیں نام لیوا کر دے اِشارہ نامِ مُحمّد

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to the speech about the virtues of the sacred name and its blessings, many Islamic brothers must have made this mind that from now on, they will also name their children, grandchildren, etc., after ‘Muhammad’. And of course they should. But remember, there is a fear of disrespect in case of choosing the name ‘Muhammad’ and it is extremely necessary for us to protect ourselves from the disrespect. The best way to protect ourselves from the disrespect is to choose another name for calling the child after naming him ‘Muhammad’ on the day of ‘Aqeeqah. In this way, we will not only attain the blessings of the name ‘Muhammad’, but we will also be able to protect ourselves from the disrespect of this sacred name. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it was also the practice of our pious predecessors that they would name their children after ‘Muhammad’ for attaining blessings and would choose any other name in order to call them, keeping in mind the respect and reverence.

Methodology of A’la Hadrat

A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه named all his sons and nephews ‘Muhammad’ on the occasions of their ‘Aqeeqahs, and then keeping in mind the respect for the sacred name and recognition of one another, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه gave them different names. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 24, pp. 689)

Style of A’la Hadrat’s devotee

Similarly, when Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is asked to name someone, he usually names him ‘Muhammad’ and chooses another name for him to be called by. For example: ‘Rajab Raza’. He adds ‘Raza’ to the name in order to establish a spiritual connection with Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Maulana Shah Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . (Naam Rakhnay kay Ahkam, pp. 29)

اپنے رَضا کے قُربان جاؤں جس نے سِکھایا نامِ مُحمّد

آنکھوں میں آکر دِل میں سَماکر رَنگت رَچا جا نامِ مُحمّد

اپنے جَمِیلِ رَضَوِی کے دِل میں آ جا سَما جا نامِ مُحمّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Islamic scholars have also mentioned extremely interesting Madani pearls in relation to the name ‘Muhammad’ in their books. Let’s listen to some faith-refreshing Madani pearls about the sacred name ‘Muhammad’ for attaining blessings.

Faith-refreshing Madani pearls about the word ‘Muhammad’

In Tafseer Na’eemi, the renowned commentator, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The word ‘Muhammad’ means ‘praised in every manner, every time, every era, every language’. The fact is that just as the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the greatest of all creations and the

leader of all the blessed Rasools عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام, similarly the blessed name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is also the leader of all the names of Ambiya. This blessed name has countless virtues; some of them are as follows:

§ Names are kept by the parents, appellations of honour are given by the nation, the title is given by the government. But the name, appellations of honour and titles of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم are all from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ as ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ chose this blessed name by the good news of the angel.

§ Names are normally given on the seventh day after the birth. But the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was written on the ‘Arsh [majestic throne] before the creation of this universe, and Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم had said to his nation approximately 600 years before the birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘His sacred name is Ahmad’, and the past nations used to make Du’a by virtue of the blessings of his blessed name.

§ The name of the Beloved Rasool (Muhammad) صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is very comprehensive. Countless virtues of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم have been mentioned in it. The meaning of Aadam is ‘the one who is created from clay’. The meaning of Ibraheem is ‘the merciful father’, Nuh means ‘one who weeps out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. All these above-mentioned names contain one attribute each, but the meaning of the name ‘Muhammad’ is ‘extremely praised in every attribute and in every way’. This signifies countless marvels and virtues of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

§ The word ‘Muhammad’ possesses even unseen information, that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will be praised forever, i.e., in the world and the Hereafter, in every place and in every way. We have been witnessing the same fact that even today, nobody is praised like the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Moreover, even those who get associated with him are also praised not only on the earth, but also in the Heavens.

Whoever, out of love, names his child ‘Muhammad’, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will have mercy on him, as it does not befit His dignity to punish such a person who names his child ‘Muhammad’ out of love and devotion to His Beloved.

(Tafseer-e-Na’eemi, vol. 4, pp. 220)

Elaborating further on the blessings of the name ‘Muhammad’, Mufti Sahib رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Usually everybody is named on the seventh day of their birth, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had named the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even before the birth of the [entire] creation, as Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام found the same name [i.e. Muhammad] written on the heights of the ‘Arsh. The ark [ship] of Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was also completed [built] due to the blessing of this name. Blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام had made Du’as with the Wasilah of this name. The meanings of the blessed names of other Ambiya are not as excellent as the name ‘Muhammad’, which means the faultless and worthy of praise and admiration in every way. By the blessings of the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, success will be achieved in the test of the grave and salvation in the Hereafter. In short, the blessed name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is so blessed that it brings about a fundamental change in a human. (Shah Habib-ur-Rahman, pp. 55)

Introduction to book ‘Naam Rakhnay kay Ahkam’

O devotees of Rasool! After listening to the Madani pearls about the blessed name ‘Muhammad’, we must have developed more importance and excellence, glory and eminence for this sacred name. Study the book ‘ Naam Rakhnay kay Ahkam ’, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, about the virtues and blessings of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, and Shar’i rulings on choosing names and information about many other Madani pearls.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this book contains the topics like different styles of choosing names in the society, names liked by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, necessary explanations, Madani pearls of choosing names with Divine names’, sayings of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم consisting of the blessings of the name ‘Muhammad’, a faith-refreshing Madani pearl about the word ‘Muhammad’ and definition of the title, Takhallus and Kunyah (patronymic). A list of 538 names for

choosing the names for Madani children (boys and girls) has also been included in it. Therefore, not only study it yourself, but also persuade others to do so. It can be read, downloaded and printed from the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We are listening to the speech about the blessings of the name ‘Muhammad’. We have also heard that our pious predecessors would have great respect to this blessed name. In fact, we should have followed the footsteps of our pious predecessors and taken great care of the respect and honour of this blessed name and shown utmost respect to it. But unfortunately, now the sanctity of this blessed name is being badly ruined. For example, some outspoken and fearless unwise people are so sharp-tongued that they even abuse and give bad titles to even those whose names contain the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ along with the people bearing other names. Similarly, some unwise people, due to having no knowledge of Shar’i rulings, write or read the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ before the name of every person. However, sometimes it is not correct to write or read the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ before some names in connection to their meanings. Therefore, instead of attaining the blessings of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, they attain the curse of disrespect.

Now on one hand, we have the manner of such unwise people, and on the other hand, we have the great character of the honourable personages who are the protectors of the respect and honour of the blessed name ‘Muhammad’ along with Naamoos-e-Mustafa and who have a great Madani mind-set about the respect of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’. Let’s listen to an informative parable about having respect for the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’.

Grand Mufti corrected me

Siraaj-ul-‘Aarifeen Allamah Maulana Ghulam Aasi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: I added the name ‘Muhammad’ in the beginning of my name to attain its blessings. The son of A’la Hadrat Imam Ahmad Raza Khan, Mufti Maulana

Mustafa Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه reproached me, saying that the name of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم (i.e., Muhammad) should not be added here. I quickly asked [with humility]: So what about ‘Muhammad ‘Abdul Hayyee’ [ مُحَمَّد عَبْدُ الْحَیّ ]? In reply to it, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه said: How can you compare ‘Ghulam Aasi’ to ‘Abdul Hayyee’? Having heard this answer, I was amazed by his ‘deep understanding of Islam’.

From the reply of Mufti A’zam رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه, we have understood that the name which follows the word ‘Muhammad’ should be applicable to it (such as Muhammad Sadiq). Otherwise, it will be considered incorrect (such as Muhammad Ghulam Husayn). The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is ‘Abdul Hayyee’, therefore, saying ‘Muhammad Abdul Hayee’ is correct, whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is not ‘Ghulam Aasi’, so saying ‘Muhammad Ghulam Aasi’ (i.e. a slave of Aasi) is inappropriate. (Jahan-e-Mufti-e-A’zam, pp. 451)

In addition, there are some other names as well before which it is not appropriate to add the blessed name ‘Muhammad’. For example, ‘Abdul Mustafa, Ghulam-e-Ghaus, Ghulam Jeelani, ‘Ubayd-e-Raza, etc., but sometimes ‘Muhammad’ is added before these names. However, it should also be kept in mind that everyone is not allowed to determine as to before which name they should use the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, and before which they should avoid using it. So for this, one should contact an authentic Sunni Islamic scholar or Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat of Dawat-e-Islami.

مَحفوظ سَدا رکھنا شہا! بے اَدَبوں سے

اور مجھ سے بھی سَر زَد نہ کبھی بے اَدَبی ہو

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Holiday I’tikaf’, one of the 12 Madani activities

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Our pious predecessors had great sense of honour. When these blessed personages would see the act of disrespecting the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, they would get worried and

uneasy, and they would immediately reform the one committing the sin of disrespect. Would that we could also be blessed with it for the sake of these pious predecessors and acting upon their teachings, we could also have great respect for the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, and could become the one who immediately reforms the person committing disrespect!

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! In today’s critical time, Dawat-e-Islami is striving hard to develop this Madani thought of pious predecessors in Muslims, to make their mind to respect this blessed name and to reform those who disrespect the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’. Therefore, you are also requested to associate yourself with this Madani environment and take part in the 12 Madani activities in order to become the embodiment of respect and reverence.

One of the 12 Madani activities is ‘I’tikaf on Yaum-e-Ta’teel’ [Holiday I’tikaf]. This I’tikaf is observed only on a holiday in the Masjid of surrounding areas. Sunnahs and manners are taught to the Islamic brothers of such areas. They are also taught the method of giving Madani Dars, etc. Due to this I’tikaf, Masajid remain filled with Salah-offering people and worshipers and every moment of ours is considered to be in worship. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, having devotion to Masjid and spending more and more time in it bears great excellence.

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see someone going to a Masjid quite often, bear witness to his faith, because Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the Masajid of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish Salah and pay the obligatory charity. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

I was fond of flying kites

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) gave the following account: Unfortunately, I spent my past life in sins. I used to fly kites and play computer games. I would stick my nose into everyone’s business, argue with people unnecessarily and would pick fights without any reason.

Luckily, I performed I’tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan in my local Masjid due to the individual efforts of an Islamic brother. I saw some extremely pleasant dreams and attained immense peace of mind. I was blessed with performing I’tikaf for another two years. Making individual effort, once the Muazzin of the Masjid convinced me to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in its global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah. When we reached Faizan-e-Madinah, a Muballigh was delivering a speech. He was dressed in white clothes with a brown shawl over his shoulders and a green turban on his head. He also had a fist-length beard. I had never seen such a refulgent & luminous face before. The attraction and refulgence of the Muballigh’s face captured my heart and I therefore joined the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. For the past two years, I have been performing I’tikaf in the global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah Karachi (Bab-ul-Madinah). اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have also grown my beard according to the Sunnah.

بگڑے اَخلاق سارے سَنوَر جائیں گے مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

جامِ عشقِ مُحمد بھی ہاتھ آئے گا مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

‘Majlis Tawqeet’

Dear Islamic brothers! The way getting busy with the Madani activities of Zayli Halqah after associating yourself with Dawat-e-Islami is a source to develop the Madani thought of having respect to the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’, similarly, one can get the mind-set of having respect and reverence for the blessed name by offering services after associating himself with any one of the departments of Dawat-e-Islami.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is busy propagating the call towards righteousness in more than 200 countries of the world in approximately 104 departments. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Majlis Tawqeet has not only prepared the maps showing timings of Salah of countless cities as per the rules and regulations of the knowledge of Tawqeet, but it has gone one step ahead. That is, it has introduced an App., by the name of ‘Awqat-us-Salat’ (Prayer Times) in cooperation with Majlis IT of Dawat-e-Islami, a Madani movement of devotees of Rasool. This App (Prayer Times) is very useful in indicating the correct timings of Salah on computer and mobile phones, etc. If you have any kind of problem or suggestion about the system of timings, you can contact the members of this Majlis and responsible Islamic brothers on the email address (prayer@dawateislami.net) or on the phone numbers of global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. One can also seek guidance in person during specific office hours in the Majlis Tawqeet office.

Attar’s letter about celebrating Milad

O devotees of Rasool who celebrate the birthday of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! The month of Safar-ul-Muzaffar is going to end soon. Then اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ the sacred month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal will begin. This is the great month for which the devotees of Rasool desperately wait for 11 (eleven) months. They take out processions by enchanting ‘Marhaba Ya Mustafa’, arrange the gatherings of Milad, give Sadaqah and charity, decorate [homes, streets, etc.] with green flags and buntings, illuminate buildings, streets, etc. and celebrate the blessed birthday with great joy and express their devotion and love.

But remember! For every important task, there are some necessary manners, hence there are some manners for celebrating Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi as well. All the non-Shar’i activities should be avoided such as decorating the streets or the roads in a way that causes inconvenience to drivers and pedestrians. The act of women leaving their homes to see the illuminations by moving among strange men without any purdah and even the intermingling of the women, who observe purdah, with men in a usual manner, is extremely regrettable and deplorable. Furthermore, the theft of electricity is also impermissible, therefore power supply companies should be contacted for

this purpose and illuminations should be done in a permissible way. Stay in Wu d u for as long as possible during the Milad procession and offer Salah with Jama’at.

Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi Ziyaee دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has given us some important Madani pearls in his letter, about conducting the celebration of Milad. Let’s attentively listen to this “Maktoob-e-Attar” (letter of Attar):

بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِیْمِ

Sag-e-Madinah Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri Razavi عُـفِـیَ عَـنۡـهُ says Salam from the core of his heart to all the devotees of Beloved Rasool on the delightful occasion of Milad celebration.

اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكُمۡ وَ رَحۡمَةُ اللّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُهُ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ رَبِّ الۡعٰلَمِيۡنَ عَلٰي كُلِّ حَالٍ

تم بھی کر کے اُن کا چرچا اپنے دِل چمکاؤ

اُونچے میں اُونچا نبی کا جھنڈا گھر گھر میں لہراؤ

Brighten your heart praising the Most Beloved Rasool

And wave the Nabi’s flag at every home

On the first night of Rabi’-un-Noor, make this announcement three times in all the Masajid:

‘Congratulations to all Islamic brothers and sisters! The moon of Rabi’-un-Noor has been sighted.’

ربیعُ النُّور اُمّیدوں کی دُنیا ساتھ لے آیا

دُعاؤں کی قَبولیَّت کو ہاتھوں ہاتھ لے آیا

The season of hopefulness has come in Rabi’-un-Noor

All the prayers will be answered very soon

Men’s shaving their beard or trimming it less than a fist-length – both are Haraam. Islamic sisters’ act of not observing Shar’i Purdah is a Haraam act. By virtue of the blessed occasion of Rabi’-un-Noor, Islamic brothers are requested to make an intention to grow a fistful beard permanently and Islamic sisters are requested to make the intention of observing Shar’i Purdah, preferably wearing a Madani Burqa’. (Man’s shaving his beard or trimming it less than a fist-length and woman’s non-observance of Shar’i purdah are Haraam. It is Wajib to immediately repent of these sins and refrain from them).

جُھک گیا کعبہ سبھی بُت مُنہ کے بَل اَوندھے گِرے

دَبدبہ آمد کا تھا، اَھلاً وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

The Ka’bah tilted, all the idols fell down upon your arrival, Marhaba! Marhaba!

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 257)

A great Madani method to attain steadfastness in practising the Sunnah and other good deeds is that all devotees (Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters) of Rasool should make an intention to observe Fikr-e-Madinah daily, and by observing Fikr-e-Madinah daily, they should fill in the booklets of Madani In’amaat and then submit it on the 1 st of every Madani month. Make intention by invoking ‘ اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’ raising your hands.

بدلیاں رَحمت کی چھائیں بُوندیاں رَحمت کی آئیں

اب مُرادیں دل کی پائِیں آمدِ شاہِ عَرَب ہے

The clouds and drizzle of blessing are at onset

Wishes would be fulfilled now, Marhaba Marhaba

(Qabalah-e-Bakhshish, pp. 184)

All devotees of Rasool, including the Nigran and responsible Islamic brothers, should travel with a Madani Qafilah for at least three days, particularly in Rabi’-un-Noor. Islamic sisters should deliver Madani Dars [from Faizan-e-Sunnat] for at least 30 days in their homes (only to the ladies and Maharim) and then make the intention to continue it daily after Rabi’-un-Noor as well.

لُوٹنے رَحمتیں قافِلے میں چلو سیکھنے سُنَّتیں قافِلے میں چلو

For receiving blessings, travel with the Qafilah

For learning the Sunnah, travel with the Qafilah

Display 12 flags or at least one flag in your Masjid, home, shop, workplace etc. from the moon sighting for the whole month. Buy some flags and display them on buses, wagons, trucks, trolleys, taxis, rickshaws, horse carriages etc. Displaying flags on cycles, motorcycles and cars. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the whole city will blossom with smiling and waving green flags. Usually big pictures of living beings or nasty couplets are printed on the back of trucks. It is my wish that the slogan ‘ I love Dawat-e-Islami ’ be printed in bold letters at the back of trucks, buses, wagons, rickshaws, taxis and cars etc. Make efforts in this regard by meeting and persuading the transporters and bus/truck owners and win my Du’as.

Caution

If the flag bears letters or an image of the blessed Na’layn (image of the Blessed Shoe-sole of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), make sure that the flag neither tears nor falls onto the ground. Further, as soon as the month of Rabi’-un-Noor ends, remove the flags immediately. If there is a risk of disrespect, use simple green flags i.e. without that sacred image/letters. (Sag-e-Madinah displays only simple green flags at his home named ‘Bayt-ul-Fanah’).

نبی کا جھنڈا لیکر نکلو دُنیا پر چھا جاؤ

نبی کا جھنڈا اَمن کا جَھنڈا گھر گھر میں لہراؤ

Lead the whole world bearing the Nabi’s flag

It’s peace flag; so at every home wave this great flag

Illuminate your home with 12 lighting strings or at least 12 bulbs. Further, install decorative lightings in your area and Masjid (remember, using electricity illegally for this purpose is Haraam, therefore, use electricity legally by contacting the electric company). Decorate your whole area with green flags, buntings and bright lights. Display big flags (12 metres long or as suited) on the roof of your home and Masjid and on main squares etc. such that they may not hinder pedestrians and traffic in anyway and also make sure that public rights are not violated. Don’t hoist flags in the middle of the road as this will obstruct the traffic. Do not decorate streets etc. in a way that results in narrowing the passage leading to a violation of Muslims’ rights.

مَشرق و مَغرب میں اِک اِک بامِ کعبہ پر بھی ایک

نَصب پرچم ہوگیا، اَھلًا وَّ سَھلًا مرحبا

Flags were hoisted one in the East, one in the West and one on the roof of the Ka’bah to welcome the arrival of the Beloved Rasool.

(Wasail-e-Bakhshish, pp. 453)

Every Islamic brother should distribute as many booklets as possible or different pamphlets published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah or at least amounting to 12 PKR to the participants of the Milad procession. Islamic sisters should also get the booklets distributed.

Similarly, make your contribution to calling towards righteousness by keeping booklets in your shops etc. for distributing free of charge throughout the year. Also make efforts to distribute booklets on occasions of weddings, funerals etc. in order to convey Sawab to the deceased. Persuade other Muslims to do the same as well.

بانٹ کر مَدَنی رسائل دِین کو پھیلائیے

کر کے راضی حق کو حقدارِ جِناں بن جائیے

Spread the Sunnah by distributing Madani booklets

Be deserving of Heaven by pleasing Allah

If possible, buy 12 booklets titled ‘ The Dawn of Blessings ’ and 112 pamphlets or at least 12 pamphlets titled ‘12 Madani pearls for celebrating the Milad of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ’ from Maktaba -tul-Madinah and give them as a gift especially to the leaders of the organizations that arrange Milad gatherings. During the month of Rabi’-un-Noor, donate 1200 PKR or, if not possible, 112 PKR or at least 12 PKR to some Sunni scholar (only adults should do so). You may also donate this money to the Imam, Muazzin or caretaker of your Masjid. Make the intention to continue this good service on a monthly basis.

It is better to donate the money on Friday because the reward of every good deed increases by 70 times on Friday. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! The cassettes of Bayanaat (Sunnah-inspiring speeches) have played a vital role in reforming the lives of several people. Some of you may have also joined Dawat-e-Islami by virtue of listening to some Bayan cassettes. So distributing these cassettes and VCDs to people is a great service to Islam and a means of earning huge rewards. Therefore, if possible, sell out 12 cassettes or VCDs of Sunnah-inspiring speeches every week or at least every month. Wealthy Islamic brothers may do this service for free. By virtue of the celebration of Milad, distribute as many Bayan cassettes and VCDs as you can and thus take part in preaching Islam.

On the occasion of weddings, give [people] a booklet or a Bayan VCD as a gift along with the wedding card. Abandon the tradition of Eid cards and replace it with the tradition of distributing booklets etc., so that the money being spent can also benefit Islam. People send me expensive Eid cards, which sadden my heart instead of making it happy. If only people spent their hard-earned money in the propagation of Islam instead of Eid cards! Furthermore, the glittering powder on these cards also causes serious troubles.

اُنکے در پے پلنے والا اپنا آپ جواب

کوئی غریب نواز تو کوئی داتا لگتا ہے

Those blessed by the Rasool are matchless

Someone becomes Ghareeb Nawaz and someone Daata.

In big cities, every regional Nigran should hold glorious Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat at different Masajid for the first 12 days of Rabi’-un-Noor (the responsible Islamic sisters should hold Ijtima’aat in their homes). If possible, everyone should attend the Ijtima’ with green flags throughout the month of Rabi’-un-Noor.

لب پر نعتِ رسولِ اکرم ہاتھوں میں پرچم

دیوانہ سرکار کا کتنا پیارا لگتا ہے

The devotee of Beloved Rasool reciting Na’ats and holding flags looks so beautiful.

Take a bath in the evening of the 11 th or on the 12 th night of Rabi’-un-Noor. If possible, buy everything new with the intention of reverence. For example, white clothes, an ‘Imamah, bandana, Topi, shawl, Miswak, handkerchief, slippers, rosary, ‘Itr (perfume), wrist watch, pen, Qafilah pad etc., in order to celebrate this Eid of Eids. (Islamic sisters should also buy new things according to their needs if possible).

آئی نئی حکومت سکّہ نیا چلے گا

عالَم نے رنگ بدلا صبحِ شبِ وِلادت

(Zauq-e-Na’at, pp. 67)

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’, we have heard:

The blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ increases the dignity of Muslims’ glory and eminence.

The blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ is the source of attaining respect.

The blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ is also dear to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

The blessing of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ changes a person’s destiny completely.

By virtue of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ the universe is gaining benefits.

The blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ will lead to Paradise.

The blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ is the source of attaining salvation from Hell.

Pious predecessors felt deep hatred towards the disrespect of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’.

It was the way of pious predecessors to reform the one who would disrespect the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’.

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to get the great treasure of respect and reverence for the sake of the blessed name, ‘Muhammad’ and enable us to attain countless blessings of this blessed name!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Putting Surmah (kohl): 4 Madani pearls

1. In Sunan Ibn Majah, there is a narration that, ‘The best kohl (Surmah) among all is Ismid as it strengthens the eyesight and grows the eyelashes.’ (Sunan Ibn Majah, p. 115 vol. 4, Hadees 3497)

2. Kohl powder made from other stones can also be used. It is, however, Makruh (disliked) for a man to use black kohl or kajal with the intention of makeup but if that is not the intention, it is not Makruh.

(Fatawa ‘Aalamgiri, vol. 5, pp. 359)

3. It is Sunnah to use Surmah (kohl) before sleeping.

(Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 6, pp. 180)

4. Here is the summary of the three narrated methods of using kohl.

Apply thrice to each eye (put the kohl applier in the kohl bottle each time for a new application).

Apply thrice in the right eye and twice in the left.

Apply twice to each eye and on the last application, enter the applier into the container, then use that same applier to equally put it in both eyes.

(Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 5, pp. 218-219)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

www

1. The Salat-’Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘A’la Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

