اَلۡـحَـمۡـدُ لِـلّٰـہِ رَبِّ الۡـعٰـلَـمِیۡنَ وَ الـصَّـلٰـوۃُ وَ الـسَّـلَامُ عَـلٰی سَـیِّـدِ الۡـمُـرۡ سَـلِـیۡنَ

اَمَّـا بَــعۡـدُ فَـاَعُـوۡذُ بِـا لـلّٰـہِ مِـنَ الـشَّـیۡـطٰنِ الـرَّجِیۡمِؕ بِـسۡمِ الـلّٰـہِ الـرَّحۡـمٰنِ الـرَّحِـیۡمِؕ

Blessings of Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا حَبِيۡبَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا رَسُوۡلَ اللّٰه

وَعَلٰى اٰلِكَ وَاَصۡحٰبِكَ يَا نُوۡرَ اللّٰه

اَلصَّلٰوةُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلَيۡكَ يَا نَبِيَّ اللّٰه

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating, drinking and sleeping will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated:

زَیِّنُوْا مَجَا لِسَکُمْ بِا لصَّلَا ۃِ عَلَیَّ فَاِنَّ صَلَاَ تَکُمْ عَلَیَّ نُوْ رٌ لَّکُمْ یَوْمَ ا لقِیَامَۃِ

Beautify your gatherings by reciting Salat upon me; because the Salat that you recite upon me, will be Noor for you on the Day of Judgement.

(Al-Jami’-us-Sagheer, pp. 280, Hadees 4580)

پڑھتا رہوں کثرت سےدُرود اُن پہ سدا میں اور ذکر کا بھی شوق پئے غوث و رضاؔ دے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

§ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

§ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

1. Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2. Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in Attahiyyaat position as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

3. I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4. If someone pushes me, I will remain patient & calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5. When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6. After the Bayan, I will approach other people by saying Salaam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

1. I also make the intention that I would deliver this speech (Bayan) in order to seek the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and for reaping the rewards.

1. I will deliver my speech (Bayan) by reading from a book of an authentic Sunni scholar.

2. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated in the Glorious Quran:

اُدۡعُ اِلٰی سَبِیۡلِ رَبِّکَ بِا لۡحِکۡمَۃِ وَ الۡمَوۡ عِظَۃِ الۡحَسَنَۃِ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: ‘Call towards the path of your Lord with sound planning and good advice.’ (Part 14, Surah An-Nahl, verse 125)

And the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said:

بَلِّغُوۡا عَنِّيۡ وَلَوۡ آيَة

‘Convey from me even if it is a single verse.’ (Sahih Bukhari, Hadees 4361)

3. I would follow these abovementioned commandments by calling people towards righteousness and will forbid them from committing evil deeds.

4. Whilst reciting poetry or speaking Arabic, English, or pronouncing difficult words, I will focus my attention on the sincerity of my heart. That is, I will avoid delivering my speech with the intention to impress the audience with my knowledge.

5. I will encourage the people to travel with Madani Qafilahs, to practice upon the Madani In’amaat and to join the ‘Ilaqa’i Daura for Nayki ki Da’wat’ (area visit for calling towards righteousness).

6. I will avoid laughing and prevent others from laughing as well.

7. In order to develop the habit of protecting my eyes from sins I will, as far as possible, lower my gaze.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, through the blessings of today’s weekly Ijtima’ we will gain the privilege of hearing about a very special person. She is the mother of the believers, Consoler of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the mother of Sayyidatuna Fatima-tuz-Zahra and other sons and daughters and the maternal grandmother of Sayyiduna Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn رَضِىَ الـل ّٰ ـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا, she is none other than Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا used to do trade on a huge scale. Like every trader, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا also needed an intelligent, sensible, competent and well-mannered workers who were trustworthy and honest. On the other hand, the fame of good manners, truth and honesty of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was well known to everyone. By virtue of his extraordinary moral and social attributes he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was called trustworthy even at that era of ignorance and immorality of the people. The fame of these blessed attributes had also reached Sayyidatuna Khadija رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and that’s why she also wanted the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to go with her business caravan carrying her goods, but she thought whether or not the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would accept her request so she did not express her intention. The days had passed, even up to 15 years before the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم announced his Prophethood. Like the previous years, this year also the business caravan of the inhabitants of Arabia were ready to travel to Syria. (Faizan-e-Khadija-tul-Kubra, pp. 5, 6, 8)

She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا sent this message to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘I am aware of your truth, honesty and good character. If you accept my offer to take these goods for trade, I will pay you double of what I pay to other people of your tribe.’ The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم accepted her offer. Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا sent her servant Maysarah with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, instructing him not to disobey the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in any matter, nor to have any difference of opinion with him. By virtue of the Sadaqah of His Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted so much blessings and profit in this trade that had never been produced before. Having seen so much profits, Maysarah said: O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! I have never seen so much of profit that has just been

earned because of you. After the buying and selling, the caravan set off to return home. During the journey, Maysarah saw that at noon when the intensity of heat increased, two angels started giving shelter to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم for protection from the sun. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ developed the love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the heart of Maysarah, therefore, he behaved with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as if he had been his slave. When the Greatest Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم reached Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and informed her about the profit that was earned, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا became very pleased. Furthermore, when she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw so much profit in her trade, compared to previous years, she presented twice as much wages than she decided to pay the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 2, pp. 158, 159, 160)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How honestly the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم sold the goods and proved himself to be trustworthy. He gave us a message that it is the responsibility of every Muslim especially one who is a businessman to protect the goods of people and not to be dishonest in them. It is stated in a blessed Hadees: Undoubtedly the most purified earning is of those traders who do not tell a lie when they speak, do not act deceitfully when they are entrusted with something, do not break a promise when they make it. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 4, pp. 221, Hadees 4854)

Remember! To be dishonest in something that is kept in your safekeeping (Amanat) is Haraam and an act leading to Hell. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has commanded us to abstain from being dishonest in Amanat (deposit). It is stated in verse 27 of Surah Al-Anfaal, part 9:

یٰۤاَ یُّہَا الَّذِیۡنَ اٰمَنُوۡ ا لَا تَخُوۡنُوا اللّٰہَ

وَ الرَّ سُوۡلَ وَ تَخُوۡنُوۡۤا اَمٰنٰتِکُمۡ وَ اَنۡتُمۡ تَعۡلَمُوۡنَ ﴿۲۷﴾

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: O People who believe! Do not betray Allah and His Noble Messenger, nor purposely defraud your trusts.

(Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, verse 27)

It is stated in verse 58 of Surah An-Nisa, part 5:

اِنَّ اللّٰہَ یَاۡمُـرُکُمۡ اَنۡ تُؤَدُّوا الۡاَمٰنٰتِ اِلٰۤی اَہۡلِہَا ۙ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed Allah commands you to hand over whatever you hold in trust, to their owners.

This attribute of a perfect true believer has been mentioned in a blessed Hadees that a true believer can form every habit, but he cannot be a liar and dishonest. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 8, pp. 276, Hadees 22232)

Whereas a hypocrite acts deceitfully in something that’s entrusted to him, as the Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘There are three signs of a hypocrite: (1) When he talks, he lies; (2) when he promises, he breaks it and (3) when he is entrusted, he betrays.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 24, Hadees 33, Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 463)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! How terrible it is to be dishonest, that the true believer refrains from it and a hypocrite indulges in it. Remember! To be dishonest or to act deceitfully when entrusted with money, possessions or goods is Haraam and an act leading to Hell. Similarly, to act deceitfully in the trusts of personal conversation, activities and posts is also Haraam. For example, if someone shared a secret with us and his manner of doing so suggested that it should not be mentioned to anyone else or he has said that it has been entrusted to you, then do not share it with anyone else, now if we have told it to someone else, we have committed the sin of breach of trust.

Likewise, the task which has been assigned to a labourer or a servant during his time of work is a trust for them. If they waste this time deliberately or they do less work during this period of time, then they will also commit the sin of breach of trust. Similarly, it is the responsibility of a ruler to watch his subject and be aware of them and do justice. If he does not fulfil the

responsibilities of his position, he will be dishonest. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to refrain from breach of trust!

اٰمِيۡن بِجَاهِ النَّبِيِّ الۡاَمِيۡن صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيۡهِ وَاٰلِه وَسَلَّم

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Let us listen to more honourable things about the Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . One of her brilliant attributes is that she was the first woman to accept Islam. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the privilege of becoming the first wife of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent Salaam to her through Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the privilege of spending almost 25 years in the blessed company of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا set a unique example of companionship and love by being besieged in Shi’b-e-Abi Taalib with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا presented all her wealth to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم himself was in her grave and lowered her into the grave with his blessed hands. In history, she is remembered by the title of Taahirah and Siddiqah. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the most beloved wife of the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . The Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم did not marry anyone else in her lifetime and she was given the good news of being blessed with a palace free of noise in Paradise. (Faizan-e-Ummahat-ul-Mu`mineen, pp. 28)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has blessed Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with magnificent attributes. Now we shall be privileged to listen to her brief introduction and more of her virtues.

Her name is Khadijah, father’s name is Khuwaylid and mother’s name is Fatimah. Regarding her lineage, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the honour that her lineage connects with the blessed lineage of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with fewer relations than other blessed wives. Her filial appellation is Umm-

ul-Qaasim [1] and Umm-e-Hind [2] . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has many titles. Let’s listen to some of them. The most famous title is ‘Al-Kubra’. This was so frequently used that it seemed as if it had been a part of her name. Another famous title is ‘Taahirah’. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا used to be called ‘Taahirah’ even in the pre-Islamic era of ignorance. Furthermore, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was also called ‘Sayyidatu Quraysh’. (As-Seerat-ul-Halbiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 199)

Similarly, ‘Siddiqah’ is also her title. It has been narrated that the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: ‘ هٰذِهِ صِدِّيۡقَةُ اُمَّتِيۡ ’, i.e. ‘She is the Siddiqah of my Ummah.’ (Tareekh Damishq, vol. 70, pp. 118)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

How eminent and exalted is the status, rank and honour of the Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا can be judged from this narration. Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that (once) Sayyiduna Jibra`eel-e-Ameen عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام came to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and humbly requested: Ya Rasoolallah (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Khadijah is approaching. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has a pot of food. When she approaches you, then convey to her the Salam of your Rab and mine and give her the good news of a home, made of a case-like (hollow) pearl in Paradise that has neither any noise nor any other inconvenience.

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 565, Hadees 3820)

In reply to the Salam, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا stated:

اِنَّ اللہَ ھُوَ السَّلَامُ وَعَلٰی جِبْرِیْلَ السَّلَامُ وَعَلَیْکَ السَّلَامُ وَرَحْمَۃُ اللہِ وَبَرَکَاتُہُ

i.e. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is Salam and peace be upon (Sayyiduna) Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام and the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, mercy and blessings be upon them. (Sunan-ul-Kubra, vol. 5, pp. 94, Hadees 8359)

مادَرِ اَوّلیں اہلِ ایمان کی

ہے یہ اس کی بُزرگی و پاکیزگی

بَرگُزیدہ ہے رَبِّ مُحَمَّد کی بھی

عرش سے جس پہ تسلیم نازِل ہوئی

اُس سرائے سلامت پہ لاکھوں سلام

اُس کا جبریل ملحوظ رکھے ادب

جنتی گوہریں گھر اُسے بخشے رَبّ

کوئی تکلیف اس میں نہ شور و شغب

مَنزِلٌ مِّن قَصَب لَا نَصَب لَا صَخَب

ایسے کوشک کی زِینت پہ لاکھوں سلام

Dear Islamic brothers! The glory and dignity of Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has been mentioned in these couplets, that she received Salam from ‘Arsh-e-Haq. Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام offered Salam by himself to Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا which is a great virtue, but to Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام not only conveyed his Salam but also the Salam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then why shouldn’t we send millions of Salam to this embodiment of peace and safety.

In the second couplet, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has pointed towards the words of this Hadees of Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim that Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام arrived and humbly said: Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Convey Allah’s Salam and my Salam to Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and give her the good news of a home which is made of pearls in Paradise, where there

will be neither any inconvenience nor any noise. When the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم conveyed the Salam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, she humbly said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself is ‘Salam’ [Peace] and peace is from Him and peace be also upon Jibra`eel-e-Ameen عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام .

(Sahih Bukhari, vol. 2, pp. 565, Hadees 3820)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! From this narration the information of Islamic rulings and educational skills of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا have been learnt, because she did not reply to the Salam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ like this: عَلَيۡهِ السَّلَام i.e. peace be upon Him . Due to her unique understanding and wisdom she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا understood that the reply to the Salam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ cannot be given as it is given to His creation. ‘Salam’ is one of the names of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, by these words the one we are talking to is given the Du’a for Salamtee (peace). Therefore, in reply to the Salam of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا praised Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . She then humbly replied to the Salam of Sayyiduna Jibra`eel عَـلَـيْهِ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّلَام and then the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . From this it is clearly understood that the one who conveys Salam should also be given the reply to the Salam along with the one who sends Salam.

(Fath-ul-Baari, vol. 8, pp. 117, Hadees 3820)

Dear Islamic brothers! (If someone conveys another person’s Salam to you), then reply in this manner: Firstly, convey the Du’a of peace to the one who is conveying the Salam and then to the one who has sent the Salam. Say it in this manner: ‘ عَلَيۡكَ وَ عَلَيۡهِ السَّلَام ’. (Bahar-e-Shari’at, part 16, vol. 3, pp. 463)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to acquire and act upon Islamic knowledge.

َ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلّ! Dawat-e-Islami has created many easy facilities to acquire Islamic knowledge. We should also attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ and Madani Muzakarahs. The month of Ramadan is distributing its blessings. A large number of lovers of Ramadan have been privileged to observe the I’tikaf for the whole month of Ramadan. If only we too could be privileged to acquire Islamic knowledge in the company of these lovers of Ramadan! Otherwise, we must at least try to acquire Islamic knowledge by observing I’tikaf of the last ten days. We should make it our routine to travel with a Madani Qafilah every month for three days, we should also travel with a Madani Qafilah immediately when the moon of ‘Eid is sighted. We should also have the privilege of doing the 63-day Madani training course, 41-day Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah course or the 12-day Madani Course in order to learn the Du’as for different occasions as well as the essential rulings of Wudu, Ghusl and Salah. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ enable us to act upon them!

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a great and perfect lady from every perspective, from her lineage; nobility; excellent manners; character; wealth and brilliant work for the people, she was a unique personality of her age. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had the privilege of becoming the wife of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to the glorious event of Sayyidatuna Khadija’s Nikah [1] with the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

One of the reasons for the Nikah of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is the Beloved Prophet’s journey to Syria. When Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا heard from her servant, Maysarah about the prophetic attributes of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and she saw for herself that angels were providing shelter to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, these became reasons for Nikah. Furthermore, it has also

been narrated that the women of Quraysh used to have an ‘Eid, in which they used to get together by the sacred Baytullah.

One day they had been there for the same reason when a person from Syria arrived called out: O women of the groups of Quraysh! Very soon a Prophet will appear amongst you, he will be called Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). If any one of you wants to have the privilege of becoming his wife, she should do it. Having heard this, the women threw pebbles and stones at him, insulted him and became very rude to him, but Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا remained quiet and committed this thing to her memory. Afterwards when Maysarah mentioned the signs which he saw and whatever she saw herself, she recalled that if that person spoke the truth, then he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم can be that honourable person. (Subul-ul-Huda, vol. 2, pp. 164)

ہو بیاں کس سے تمہاری شان و عظمت یا رسول

جب تمہاری خود خدا کرتا ہے مِدحت یا رسول

Impressed by the good manners and habits of the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا sent her friend (Nafeesah Bint-e-Manyah) to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم to receive his consent to make Nikah with her. After receiving the Beloved Prophet’s consent, Nafeesah Bint-e-Manyah approached Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا and said: Congratulations! Muhammad-e-Mustafa (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) has accepted your request. Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا became overjoyed and expressed her delight. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا then sent someone to her uncle ‘Amr Bin Asad so that he could also be present at the marriage ceremony (Nikah).

On the other hand, our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also went to the house of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا with Abu Taalib, Sayyiduna Hamzah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and some other uncles, and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ as well as other wealthy people of the tribe Mudar, and had the Nikah ceremony. This blessed Nikah ceremony was arranged after 2 months 25 days of the Beloved Prophet’s return from the journey of Syria.

(Madarij-un-Nubuwwah, vol. 2, pp. 27)

Furthermore, having become the wife of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has had the privilege of becoming the Umm-ul- Mu`mineen (mother of the believers) of all Mu`mineen [true believers] until the Day of Judgement.

After Nikah, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا humbly said to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ask your uncle to sacrifice a camel and serve food to the people. Having served food to the people, the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived and talked to Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . By this, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted coolness upon the eyes of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . His affectionate uncle Abu Taalib expressed great joy over this marriage and said: ‘ اَلۡحَمۡدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيۡ اَذۡهَبَ عَنَّا الۡكَرۡبَ وَ رَفَعَ عَنَّا الۡهُمُوۡمَ ’, All the qualities are for the One Who has removed troubles from us and lifted sorrow from us . (Sharh-uz-Zurqaani, vol. 1, pp. 379) This is how this blessed wedding ceremony concluded.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

O those who claim to have deep love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! This great blessed Nikah ceremony of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was arranged with great simplicity. But Alas! Currently, in our society on the occasions of engagements and weddings, some impermissible and indecent customs are being practised to such an extent that the wedding ceremonies are considered incomplete without them.

In his booklet ‘ Horrors of Songs and Music ’ pointing towards the sins which are committed in wedding ceremonies, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has mentioned: Alas! Alas! Nowadays a very beautiful Sunnah like marriage is being surrounded by lots of sins. Indecent customs have become part and parcel of it. مَ ـ عَـاذَ الـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, circumstances have become so bad that the Sunnah of marriage cannot be performed unless many Haraam acts are performed.

For example, in the engagement ceremony a boy makes a girl wear a ring with his own hands, and that is Haraam and an act leading to Hell. In a wedding ceremony, a man colours his hands with henna, and this is also Haraam. Mixed parties of men and women are arranged or sometimes a so-called purdah (tent) is erected between them, even then non-Mahram men enter the women’s section freely to serve food, take pictures and recording clips; women wear western fashion; young girls of the family dance, sing songs and entertain themselves. Similarly, the men also enter freely into these immoral acts; men and women commit the sin of misusing their eyes a lot. They do not have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ nor shyness from Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

Remember! If a non-Mahram man sees a non-Mahram woman or vice-versa with lust, both are Haraam acts that will lead them to Hell. Therefore, we must abandon these immoral and wrong customs and host our wedding ceremonies according to the Sunnah, with simplicity, as it has goodness and blessings for us.

The Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهَا narrated that the Revered and Renowned Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘A greatly blessed Nikah is one in which there is less burden.’

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 9, pp. 365, Hadees 24583)

Commenting on the abovementioned blessed Hadees, a great thinker of the Ummah, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الْـحَـنَّان has stated: If a marriage is not extravagant from any side and the Mahr (i.e. the money paid by the husband to the wife) and dowry are less, then neither the family of the bride nor of the bride-groom fall into debt, no strict condition is set, and the bride is given away in the trust of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, such a Nikah will be highly blessed and successful. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 5, pp. 11)

شادیوں میں مَت گُنَہ نادان کر خانہ بربادی کا مَت سامان کر

سادَگی شادی میں ہو سادہ جہیز جیسا بی بی فاطمہ کا تھا جہیز

چھوڑ دے سارے غَلَط رَسم و رواج سنَّتوں پہ چلنے کا کر عَہد آج

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The Mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was a very wealthy lady. If she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا had wanted, she could have lived the days of her life with plenty of comforts and peace, but she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, for the sake of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, rejected the royal living and spent her entire life serving the Holy Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, bearing troubles and difficulties, and these are clear evidences of her sincere love for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . By the order of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ when the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم declared prophethood and called people to worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, so instead of accepting the invitation of Islam they started causing difficulties and troubles to the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, thorns were spread on the way. Under such delicate and tough circumstances the personages who saying yes to the righteous call had the privilege to become the first to accept the invitation of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم a very prominent name amongst them is Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا sacrificed herself like a moth (that flies around a candle at night) for the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and supported our Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in every difficult situation. Sayyiduna Allamah Muhammad Bin Ishaaq Madani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said that whenever the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم felt sad after hearing anything unacceptable that was heart-breaking from the unbelievers, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would go to Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا so Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ would dispel the Beloved Prophet’s state of grief through her.

(As-Seerat-un-Nabawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 176)

Dear Islamic brothers! In such delicate circumstances, the mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna Khadija-tul-Kubra’s act of bearing difficulties and problems with a firm determination elevates over the other blessed wives of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, we have also received this priceless Madani pearl from her blessed life that no matter how tough the circumstances are, no matter how terrible the difficulties one faces, you should never disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and you should not keep away from any kind of sacrifice for the sake of the beautiful religion brought by the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ i.e. ‘Islam’.

تیرے نام پر سر کو قُربان کر کے تیرے سر سے صدقہ اُتارا کروں میں

یہ اک جان کیا ہے اگر ہوں کروڑوں تیرے نام پر سب کو وارا کروں میں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! We have also learnt a Madani pearl that a wife must stand by her husband in times of poverty and prosperity. Instead of arguing and unnecessarily complaining, she should always remain patient and be thankful. The quality of an exemplary wife who has a good-character is that she always thanks Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the blessings of her husband and is never unthankful by denying his favours. She very well understands that her husband is a strong support for her as well as blessings of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for her; he fulfils her needs and because of him, she has the blessings of children.

The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has laid stress on women to not be ungrateful to their husbands. Sayyidatuna Asma Bint-e-Yazeed رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said that once the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم passed by us, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made Salam to us and said: Avoid being ungrateful to those who do favours. We humbly asked: What does ‘ being ungrateful to those who do favours ’ mean? He replied: It was possible that any woman amongst you could have been without a husband for a long time and she remains with her parents and becomes old, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ grants her a husband and

blesses her with wealth and children through him, despite this, when she gets angry she says: I have never seen any good from him.

(Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 10, pp. 433, Hadees 27632)

Dear Islamic brothers! Unfortunately, in our society, the majority of women commit the sin of ungratefulness. If they see a prosperous family or woman or her expensive dresses and very expensive jewellery, they start becoming ungrateful. As the Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: I have seen more women in Hell, because they are ungrateful. It was humbly asked: ‘ اَیَکْفُرْنَ بِاﷲ ’, Is it because they are ungrateful to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? He replied: ‘ یَکْفُرْنَ ا لْعَشِیْرَ وَیَکْفُرْنَ الْاِحْسَان ’, i.e. they are ungrateful to their husbands and do not admit the favours. ‘ لَوْ اَحْسَنْتَ اِلیٰ اِحْدٰھُنَّ الدَّھْرَ ’, i.e. if you do any of them favours throughout your life, ‘ ثُمَّ رَأَتْ مِنْکَ شَیْئاً ’, i.e. then if she sees a little thing in you contrary to her mood or temperament, then she says ‘ مَارأیتُ مِنْک خَیْراًقَطُّ ’, I have never seen anything good from you. (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 1, pp. 23, Raqm 29)

Therefore, we should mention the virtues of patience and thankfulness to our family members. We should fulfil each others rights in a proper way and we should try to mend our strained relations. Remember! This beautiful relationship of love and affection between husband and wife can be maintained in a beautiful manner if the husband and wife fulfil each other’s rights properly. Indeed, both the husband and wife have been commanded to fulfil each other’s rights, therefore, both should fulfil each other’s rights in a gentle way, this is how our home can become the centre of peace and comfort.

[

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Another great attribute of Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا is that she was generous and used to spend open-heartedly. Once the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said to mother of the believers, Sayyidatuna ‘Aaishah Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا: By Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have not found a better wife than Khadijah. When everyone rejected me, she believed in me and when everyone denied me, she bore witness to me and when no one was ready to give me anything, Khadijah gave to me all her things, and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted me children from her. (Al-Isti’aab, vol. 4, pp. 384)

Similarly, once the foster mother of the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Sayyidatuna Haleemah Sa`diyah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, approached the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in blessed Makkah. She submitted a complaint of drought and the death of cattle. At that time, the Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had married Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . The Beloved and Blessed Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم discussed this matter to Sayyidatuna Khadijah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا, she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا then presented 40 goats and a camel to Sayyidatuna Haleemah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا . (At-Tabqat-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 92)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how generous she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was! Following her blessed example, we too should get into the habit of giving as much charity as we can. Our beautiful religion of Islam has given us the lesson of wishing good for Muslims, treating them well, helping the poor and financially supporting the orphans. Keep in mind that every year if one is a Sahib-e-Nisaab, then Zakah becomes compulsory for them to pay. Having mentioned the virtues of Nafl Sadaqat (voluntary charity), Islam has given us the lesson of being generous to people and it has condemned stinginess. Therefore, instead of being lazy and stingy in performing the important act like Zakah, one should pay it purely for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeping all of its Shar’i rulings in mind. Furthermore, one should also make the mind of giving Nafl Sadaqat, as Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ loves those who give Sadaqah. Sadaqah not only diverts troubles and curses, but also fulfils many needs of the poor. In order to develop the passion for generosity, let us listen to three blessed

sayings of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم regarding the virtues of generosity.

1. اَلۡجَنَّةُ دَارُالۡاَسۡخِيَآء: Jannah is the home of those who are generous.

(Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 1, pp. 333, Hadees 2430)

2. A generous person is close to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, close to Paradise, close to people, distant from Hell. And a miser is distant from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, distant from Paradise, distant from people, close to Hell. And Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes an ignorant generous person more than a worshipper who is a miser.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi vol. 3, pp. 387, Hadees 1968)

3. O man! It is better for you if you spend your surplus wealth, but if you withhold it, it is evil for you. There is [however] no reproach for you if you withhold it according to your need. And begin [charity] with your family; and the upper hand is better than the lower hand.

(Sahih Muslim, pp. 516, Hadees 1036)

Dear Islamic brothers! Those who fulfil the rights which are Wajib for their wealth are certainly very fortunate, they happily pay Zakah and Fitrah on time, they spend on their parents, siblings and children, they financially support the poor and orphans in their friends and relatives, and they actively participate in the activities of Masajid and Madaris and other acts of righteousness. One of the best means of spending money in righteous deeds is to spend money in spreading the message of Islam, this could become a permanent source of reward for us.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami is a non-political movement to fill our Masajid and to spread the call towards righteousness across the world. Its aim is to develop this mind-set that ‘I must strive to reform myself and the people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .’ اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Dawat-e-Islami is carrying out Madani work in approximately 103 departments in order to spread the Sunnah and the call towards righteousness. In order to run all these departments, not

only millions but billions are needed. 452 Jami’aat-ul-Madinah (for boys and girls) have been established in the country and across the world in which approximately 30,354 male and female students are studying the Dars-e-Nizami Course. Furthermore, 2,475 Madaris-tul-Madinah (for boys and girls) have also been established in which approximately 113,118 Madani children (boys and girls) are receiving the education of Hifz and Naazirah free of charge.

Madani Channel has become a source of reformation for countless of Muslims as well as for unbelievers who are embracing Islam. Millions of lovers of the Beloved Rasool are acquiring Islamic knowledge through it. On Madani Channel during Ramadan, the Madani Muzakarah Silsilah (program) is broadcast live twice daily after ‘Asr and Taraweeh. Besides Ramadan, Madani Muzakarah is broadcast live once a week.

Currently 12 Dar-ul-Ifta Ahl-e-Sunnat offices have been established, Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah, Majlis Maktubaat and Ta’wizat-e-Attariyyah are actively assisting hundreds of thousands of Muslims who are benefiting.

In addition to this, Madani Marakiz (Faizan-e-Madinah), constructions and arrangements of other Masajid, Madani training centres, different training courses (for example, Fard ‘Uloom Course, Imamat Course, Mudarris Course, Madani Training Course, Madani In’amaat and Madani Qafilah Course, Qufl-e- Madinah Course, Faizan-e-Islam Course, Faizan-e-Quran and Hadees Course, 12-Day Madani Course etc.), Weekly Ijtima’aat, Ijtima’aat of sacred nights (for example, night of Milad, Giyarhween, night of Mi’raaj, Shab-e-Bara`at [night of Bara`at] and Shab-e-Qadr [night of Qadr] etc.), congregational I’tikaf of the whole month of Ramadan/last ten-days I’tikaf, in short in order to promote the Madani activities of Dawat-e-Islami in an organized manner, approximately 103 departments are currently operating, and these require huge amounts of money. You too are requested to collect as much Madani donations as you can and help Dawat-e-Islami in spreading the call towards righteousness.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to seize the opportunity to mention the excellence of a Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 97, Hadees 175)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

§ On page 288 of the first volume of Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami عَـلَيْهِ رَحْـمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـقَـوِی has stated, ‘The honourable scholars say that whoever uses the Miswak regularly, will be blessed with the good fortune of reciting the Kalimah (fundamental article of faith) at the time of death, and whoever consumes opium will not be able to recite the Kalimah at the time of death.’

§ It is narrated from Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا that there are 10 qualities in the Miswak: It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, eliminates phlegm, eliminates bad smells of the mouth, it is in accordance with the Sunnah, the angels become happy, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased, it increases good deeds and cures the stomach. (Jam’-ul-Jawami’ lis-Suyuti, vol. 5, pp. 249, Hadees 14867)

§ Miswak should be from Zaytoon, or Neem, or similar trees/plants having a bitter taste.

§ Thickness of the Miswak should be equal to the little finger.

§ The Miswak should not be longer than one’s hand span as Satan sits on it.

§ The strands of the Miswak should be soft; otherwise, they might cause spaces between the teeth and gums.

§ If a Miswak is fresh then it is excellent; otherwise soak it in a glass of water until it becomes soft.

§ Trim the strands of the Miswak every day as they are beneficial only as long as they have some bitterness.

§ Brush your teeth horizontally with the Miswak.

§ Always brush your teeth with a Miswak in three cycles.

§ And rinse it after each cycle.

§ Hold the Miswak in the right hand in such a manner that the little finger remains beneath it and the middle three fingers remain over it while the thumb is also beneath pointing upwards (near the soft strands that are used to brush the teeth).

§ First brush (with Miswak) the top right row of the teeth then top left row. Then clean the bottom right row and then the bottom left row of the teeth.

§ Using the Miswak by gripping it in the form of a closed fist poses the risk of piles.

§ Miswak is a pre-Wudu Sunnah but if one has foul breath, using the Miswak becomes Sunnat-ul-Muakkadah. (Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 623)

§ Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands as it is used to act upon a Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

To learn various Sunan, get the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Prophet.

مجھ کو جَذبہ دے سفر کرتا رہوں پَروَردِگار سُنتَّوں کی تربیَّت کے قافلے میں بار بار

www

Click here to read

