اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Deeds that Save from Hell

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn reward. It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of reciting Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Prophet of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: ‘ مَنۡ صَلّٰي عَلَيَّ مِائَةً كَتَبَ اللّٰهُ بَيۡنَ عَيۡنَيۡهِ بَرَاءَ ةً مِّنَ النِّفَاقِ وَبَرَائَ ةً مِّنَ النَّا ر ’ The one who sends 100 Salat to me, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ writes between his two eyes that this

person is free from hypocrisy and Hellfire ‘ وَاَسۡكَنَهُ اللّٰهُ يَوۡمَ الۡقِيَامَ ةِ مَعَ الشُّهَ دَاء ِ ’ and on the Day of Judgement, he will be kept with martyrs.

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, pp. 252, vol. 5, Hadees 7235)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Prophet صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِه ٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Millions of thanks be to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has bestowed the blessed month of Ramadan upon us and His further favour is that He has also bestowed a great night of mercy and blessings, ‘Shab-e-Qadr’ upon us in this sacred month of blessed Ramadan.

اِنَّاۤ اَنْزَلْنٰهُ فِیْ لَیْلَةِ الْقَدْرِۚۖ(۱) وَ مَاۤ اَدْرٰىكَ مَا لَیْلَةُ الْقَدْرِؕ(۲) لَیْلَةُ الْقَدْرِ ﳔ خَیْرٌ مِّنْ اَلْفِ شَهْرٍؕؔ(۳)

We have indeed sent down the Qur’an in the Night of Destiny. And what have you understood, what the Night of Destiny is! The Night of Destiny is better than a thousand months.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)](Parah 30, Surah Al-Qadr, Ayah 1-3)

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Malik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed the gift of Shab-e-Qadr upon my Ummah and He عَزَّوَجَلَّ did not bestow this night upon any other [Ummah] before them. (Musnad-e-Firdaus, vol. 1, pp. 173, Hadees 647)

Mufti Naeemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: This is the favour of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ upon His Beloved (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) that if his Ummatis worship one night of Shab-e-Qadr, its reward will be more than the reward of those of the previous Ummah who would worship one thousand months. (Khazain-ul-Irfan, Taht-al-Ayah. 3, pp. 1113)

Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Naeemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Two benefits have been obtained from this Ayah: (1) relation to sacred things is very useful as this excellence of Shab-e-Qadr is in relation to the Holy Quran. The dog of Ashab-e-Kahaf has attained eternal life and respect because of its association to

pious people. (2) The Holy Quran is superior to all revealed books because the date of the revelation of the Torah and the Bible did not attain this greatness. (Noor-ul-Irfan, Ayah 3, pp. 990)

Dear Islamic brothers! Shab-e-Qadr is a very great night; it is the night of goodness, the night of mercy, the night in which Dua’s are heard, the night of forgiveness. Layla-tul-Qadr is an extremely blessed night. It is called Layla-tul-Qadr because the commandments of the whole year are enforced in it. In other words, angels record whatever is going to happen the following year in registers. It is stated in Tafseer-e-Saawi on page 2398, volume 6:

اَيۡ اِظۡهَارُ هَا فِيۡ دَوَاوِيۡنِ الۡمَلَاءِ الۡاَعۡلٰي

Translation: It (destiny) is mentioned in the registers of the chosen angels.

This blessed night also possesses several other virtues. A renowned commentator of the Holy Quran, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: This night is called Layla-tul-Qadr for a few reasons:

1 In this night, the tasks of the following year are set and then assigned to the angels. Qadr refers to either destiny or respect, that is, the night of respect.

2 The respectful Holy Quran was revealed during this night.

3 The worship performed during this night has great Qadr (Value).

4 Qadr also means ‘narrowness’, that is, Angels descend during this night in such a great number that the earth becomes crowded with them. For these reasons, it is called Shab-e-Qadr, i.e. the night of Qadr. (Mawa’iz-e-Na’imiyyah, pp. 62)

It is stated in a Hadees of Sahih Bukhari, ‘All the previous sins of the person, who worships with faith and sincerity during this night, will be forgiven.’

(Sahih Bukhari, pp. 660, vol. 1, Hadees 2014)

Dear Islamic brothers! We should also perform more and more worship and recite the Holy Quran during this night and become busy with the acts that bring about the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ after repenting of our sins. Otherwise remember! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has prepared the torment of Hell for those who disobey Him. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us from it! In the Holy Quran, at different places, the torments inflicted upon the Hell-dwellers have been mentioned. In Ayah 29 of Surah Al-Kahf, part 15, it is stated:

اِنَّاۤ اَعْتَدْنَا لِلظّٰلِمِیْنَ نَارًاۙ-اَحَاطَ بِهِمْ سُرَادِقُهَاؕ-وَ اِنْ یَّسْتَغِیْثُوْا یُغَاثُوْا بِمَآءٍ كَالْمُهْلِ یَشْوِی الْوُجُوْهَؕ-بِئْسَ الشَّرَابُؕ-وَ سَآءَتْ مُرْتَفَقًا(۲۹)

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: We have indeed prepared for the disbelievers a fire the walls of which will surround them; if they plead for water, their plea will be answered with water like molten metal which shall scald their faces; what an evil drink it is; and what an evil destination is Hell!

(Part 15, Surah Al-Kahf, Ayah 29)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how admonitory treatment will be given to hell-dwelling people and how terrible torments will be inflicted upon them in Hell! Our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, for teaching us, would seek refuge from the torment of Hell abundantly. (Sahih Muslim, Hadees 133) Remember! This fire of the world is one-seventieth part of the fire of Hell. (Sahih Muslim, 2843) The fire of Hell had been blown for one thousand years until it turned red, then it had been blown for one thousand years more until it turned white, then it had been blown for one thousand years more until it turned black, so now it is sheer black. (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 2600)

Swearing an oath Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: If the Hell is opened just equal to the needle-eye, so all the dwellers of the entire earth will die of its heat and said swearing an oath: If any of the guards of Hell appears to the people of the world, all living-beings on the earth will die out of its awe and said further swearing an oath: If only one link of the chain of hell-dwellers is placed on the mountains of the

world, the mountains will start trembling and they will not become calm until they sink beneath the earth. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, Hadees 18583)

The person, on whom the lightest torment of Hell will be inflicted, will be made to wear shoes of fire due to which his brain will boil in such a way as a small copper stewpot boils. He will feel as if the most painful torment is being inflicted on him alone, though it will be the lightest torment on him.

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ 0

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the Fire [of Hell].

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ 0

O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ 0

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the Most Merciful.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Be anxious about the fear of Hell

Dear Islamic brothers! Just ponder that no one can bear the worldly fire so how can the fire of Hell be borne? Not only will there be this fire, but there will also be many other painful torments. Therefore bearing in mind terrors of hell, difficulties of crossing the Siraat Bridge and the terrible conditions of the Hereafter it is safe for us to do something to protect ourselves from them. Sayyiduna Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The person, who ponders more over the Judgment Day in this world, will stay safer from those terrors. Undoubtedly, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not gather two fears on His bondman, therefore

whoever has the fear of these terrors in the world will stay safe from them in the Hereafter. Moreover, fear does not mean to weep like women that tears stream down and heart becoming sad when we hear about it, then after some time, upon forgetting it, we get busy with sport and frolic. This state has nothing to do with the fear, but rather the person, who has the fear of whatsoever, runs away from it and whatsoever he hopes, he asks for it. So we can attain salvation from the fear that prevents us from the disobedience to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and persuades us to perform His worship and obedience. (Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 5, pp. 286-287) Let’s listen to something about a few such deeds by virtue of the blessing of which tonight there is good news of protection from the torment of Hell.

Stop committing sins and have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ

Dear Islamic brothers! If we want to protect ourselves from the torment of Hell and wish to deserve the unending blessings of Paradise, we have to avoid committing every type of sin such as missing Salah, getting beard shaved or reducing it to less than a fist, annoying parents, taking women in the market without purdah, watching and showing movies and dramas, listening to songs and playing music, earning Haraam sustenance, having shares in interest- based business, abuses, backbiting, tale-telling, talking too much/rudely about finding faults with others.

Remember! One of the best means of staying safe from sins is to have fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeping in mind the disgrace and insult we may face on the Day of Judgement due to our sins because fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the only medicine through which the cure of sins is possible. As long as we are deprived of this great blessing, it is almost impossible to hate sins and love virtuous deeds. Let’s listen to three blessed Ahadees about the excellence in weeping due to the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in order to have the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ in the heart:

1 The fire of Hell will not touch two eyes: An eye that wept from the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and an eye that spent the night standing on guard in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, Hadees 1645)

2 A person humbly said: Ya Rasool Allah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! With what thing can I be safe from the Hell? The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: By virtue of the tears of your eyes because the fire of the Hell will never touch the eye that weeps out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, pp. 98)

3 The eyes of three men will not see the Hell. One that keeps guard in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, second that weeps out of the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and third one that stops rising towards the things which are made Haraam by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, pp. 416)

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Malik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that he heard the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم saying: O people! Weep, if you cannot weep, try to weep, because Hell-dwellers will weep in the Hell and their tears will seem as if a stream is flowing on their faces until their tears end up; then their blood will start to flow and the blood will flow in so much quantity that if a boat is sailed in it, it will sail in it. (Sunan Ibn Majah, Hadees 4196)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Become the protector of Muslims’ honour!

Dear Islamic brothers! Besides having the fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ one of the deeds leading to Paradise is the deed to protect the honour of a Muslim. Therefore without any Shar’i reason, don’t listen if anyone in front of you, starts talking about a mistake or a fault of an Islamic brother either in his presence or in his absence so immediately bearing in mind the respect of Muslim and with the intention of earning the reward of the Hereafter protect the honour of your Islamic brother.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who protects the honour of his [Muslim] brother in his absence so it is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to free him from Hell.’ (Musu’at La-Bin Abi Dunya, vol. 7, pp. 140, Hadees 241)

Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool عَـلَـيْـهِ اَ فۡـضَلُ الـصَّـلٰوةِ وَالـتَّسۡلِـیۡم said: The one who protects the honour of his brother in the world,

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will send an angel on the Day of Judgement who will protect him from Hell. (Zamm-ul-Ghibah li-Ibn Abid Dunya, pp. 131, Hadees 105)

Remember! If you can stop the one from backbiting against a Muslim, it is Wajib for you to do so. Hence, preventing him from backbiting brings great reward and not preventing him from backbiting may result in great torment. Let’s listen to two sayings of beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in this regard:

1 ‘If backbiting of a Muslim brother is being committed in front of another Muslim, and he is in a position to help him, and he helps him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will help him in the world and the Hereafter, whereas if despite being in a position to help he does not help him, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will hold him accountable in the world and the Hereafter.’

(Musannaf ‘Abdur Razzaq, vol. 10, pp. 188, Hadees 20426)

2 ‘Whoever prevents others from the flesh of his brother in his absence (i.e., he stops someone from backbiting against a Muslim), so it is upon the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to free him from Hell.’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 3, pp. 70, Hadees 4981)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ 0

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the Fire [of Hell].

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ 0

O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ 0

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the Most Merciful.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Do not hear backbiting and tale-telling!

Dear Islamic brothers! You should also make up your mind to beware immediately of any negative thing discussed about a Muslim and ponder. If it consists of backbiting or is tempting you into committing backbiting, immediately refrain from it. If someone starts having conversation about it, stop him in a suitable way. If he does not refrain, leave the place. If it is not possible to stop him or leave the place, consider it to be bad in the heart. Change the topic and do not take interest in the conversation. For example, start looking here and there, have the impression of weariness on your face, express your boredom by looking at your wrist watch again and again and immediately leave the place as soon as you find the opportunity.

(Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 214)

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Also save others from Hell!

Dear Islamic brothers! Give up the habit of committing backbiting and listening to backbiting against others and protect yourselves from becoming the fuel of Hell! Alas! At present, a significant majority of Muslims are committing the sin of backbiting. The basic cause of it is not to have any information about backbiting. There are a number of people who do not know even the definition of backbiting. So when someone does not have any knowledge about something, it is almost impossible to stay safe from it.

Therefore, for getting the information about backbiting, the study of the 520- page book, ‘Backbiting - a Cancer in our Society’ authored by Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ will prove to be very beneficial. This book contains definition of backbiting, blessed Quranic Ayahs, blessed Ahadees, sayings and conditions of pious predecessors in its condemnation, parables about backbiting, examples of backbiting and its rulings as well as conditions of it being permissible and impermissible and worldly and Hereafter disadvantages of committing backbiting. Moreover, it also contains countless Madani pearls. This book is certainly a need of every

home or rather of every person. So buy this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah today. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ you will gain a great treasure of Islamic knowledge.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Backbiting is such an evil from which very few Muslims would be safe. We should try to protect ourselves and others from backbiting and other sins and reduce the burden of sins of sinful people. A way of reducing the burden of others is to forgive Muslims your rights as far as possible. Persuading us to do it, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would abundantly say: Does anyone amongst you get sick of the thing that he be like Abu Damdam? They humbly asked, ‘Who is Abu Damdam?’ He صَلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَالٰى عَـلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, ‘In the previous Ummah, there was a person who used to say like this in the morning: ‘O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Today I forgive my rights upon the person who oppresses me.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 6, pp. 261, Hadees 8082)

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated on page 32 of his booklet ‘ Cure for Anger ’: On the Day of Judgement, it will be announced, ‘The one whose reward is at the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ should stand up and enter Paradise .’ It will be asked, ‘For whom is this reward?’ The announcer will reply, ‘This is for those who forgive.’ Then, thousands of people will stand up and enter Paradise without any accountability.’

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat lit-Tabarani, vol. 1, pp. 542, Hadees 1998)

It is stated in an another blessed Hadees: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will prevent the trouble of Hell and its smoke from the one who had patience with the trouble caused by people and there is a door of Hell ‘ Baab-ut-Tashaffi ’; only the one who does not control his anger will enter it and the one who suppressed his anger and gave up his right for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, when he will cross the Siraat Bridge, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will close that door for him and will transfer the virtuous deeds of the inflictor to his [oppressed’s] Book of deeds and his [oppressed’s] sins to the [inflictor’s] Book of deeds and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is the best judge. (Qurra-tul-‘Uyun, pp. 396)

Path to Paradise and Hell

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed that forgiving our own rights brings only benefit! Therefore whenever we are caused trouble by anyone, we should form the habit of forgiving him by suppressing our anger against the Nafs for gaining the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ not only will the graves be illuminated of the Inflicted or trouble-stricken people [or rather along with freedom from Hell], they will also get abode in Paradise. Remember! Forgiving someone else our own rights and withdrawing from them without taking revenge for the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are surely acts of courage. Putting out the fire of revenge burning in the heart will surely be difficult, but remember, protection from Hell and attainment of Paradise are not so easy. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Hell is covered with lusts and Paradise is covered with troubles.

(SahihBukhari, vol. 4, pp. 243, Hadees 6487)

Commenting on the words of the abovementioned blessed Hadees, ‘Hell is covered with lusts’, renowned commentator, Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Hell itself is dangerous, but there are many artificial flowers and orchards in its path. Worldly sins and fornications, which are apparently very pleasing, are in fact the path leading to Hell. Regarding words ‘Paradise is covered with troubles’ he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه stated: Paradise is a big fruit-bearing orchard, but its path is full of thorns and crossings which is difficult for Nafs. Salah, Sawm, Hajj and Zakah etc., are the path leading to Paradise. Steadfastness in worship and separation from lusts [desires] are really uphill tasks for Nafs. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, pp. 5)

Dear Islamic brothers! After listening to the above-mentioned blessed Hadees and its commentary, all of us should make up our minds to perform more and more virtuous deeds and refrain from all minor and grave sins. Remember! We will surely face troubles and difficulties while performing good deeds, but these troubles will become the source of our salvation in the Hereafter, whereas the pleasure we get in committing sins is temporary and this pleasure will get us into troubles in the Hereafter. No matter how difficult a virtuous deed is we should perform it anyway.

Remember! When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ shows His mercy, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ accepts even a single deed in His court and then by virtue of it grants His bondman abundant mercy and grants him Salvation from Hell as well as bestows beautiful palaces and orchards of Paradise upon him. In this regard, listen to a blessed Hadees in which many such people have been mentioned who have been saved from the punishment by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and blessed with Divine mercy by virtue of any of their virtuous deed.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdur Rahman Bin Samurah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ has narrated that once the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came to them and said: Last night I had a strange dream in which I saw that Malak-ul-Maut عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلاَم came to seize a person’s soul, but his obedience to his parents appeared in front of him and he stayed safe. One person was about to suffer the torment of grave, but [the virtue of] his Wudu saved him. One person was surrounded by devils, but [the virtue of making] Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ saved him. One person was surrounded by the angels of torment, but [his] S alah saved him. I saw a person, whose tongue was out due to the intensity of thirst, he would go to a pond to drink water, but was sent back, in the meantime, his Siyam came and [this virtue] quenched his thirst. I saw a person whose front and back, right and left, above and below was only darkness and he was astonished and worried in this darkness so his Hajj and ‘Umrah came and [these virtuous deeds] took him to the light after taking him out of the darkness. Fire was approaching the body and face of a person and he was protecting himself from his hand, so his Sadaqah came and acted as a shield and became a shadow over his head. One person was surrounded by the Zabaaniyah (i.e., specific angels of torment), but his اَمْرٌبِا لْمَعْرُوفِ وَنَہْیٌ عَنِ الْمُنْکَرِ [his virtue of enjoining people to do good and preventing them from evil] came and it saved him and handed him over to the angels of mercy. I saw a person who was sitting on his knees, but there was a Hijab [i.e. purdah] between him and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, but then his good manners came and this [virtue] saved him and made him meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . One person was standing on the Siraat Bridge and was shaking like a small branch of a tree, but then his Husn-e-Zan [i.e. good opinion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would show His mercy] came and [this virtue] saved him and he crossed the Siraat Bridge. One person was walking by dragging over the Siraat Bridge, but then his act of reciting Salat upon me

came and [this virtue] made him stand up and cross the Siraat Bridge. One person from my Ummah reached the doors of Paradise so all of them were closed for him, then his act of testifying لَآاِلٰہَ اِلَّااللّٰہُ came and Heavenly doors were opened for him and he entered Paradise. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 265)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ 0

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the Fire [of Hell].

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ 0

O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation, O the One Who gives salvation.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ 0

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the Most Merciful.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed! Sometimes even small righteous deeds bring about salvation from Hell and eternal peace in Paradise. Therefore we should perform more and more good deeds and the people who are busy performing virtuous deeds should be careful lest Satan succeeds in convincing them: You have performed many virtuous deeds; now stop them; these virtuous deeds of yours are sufficient for helping you attain forgiveness and enjoy the blessings of Paradise. If any such thought crosses your mind, brush it off immediately and have fear all the time of the hidden plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ because no one knows about the hidden plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for any one. There were people who spend their entire life in disbelief, but at the time of death they were blessed with faith, whereas there were people who despite spending their entire life in performing virtuous deeds had bad end at the time of their death مَعَاذَ اللہ عَزَّ وَجَلَّ .

Sayyidatuna Ayesha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ wills to do good to any bondman, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ, before one year of his death, appoints an angel who continues to bring him to the right path until he dies in a good state and people say: So-and-so has died in a good state. When such a fortunate and righteous person starts dying, his soul hurries to leave his body. At that time he likes to meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ likes to meet him too. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ intends to do bad to someone else, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ, before one year of his death, appoints a Satan on him who continues to mislead him until he reaches the worst time of his life and then dies. When death approaches him his soul begins to get entangled. At that time, this person does not like to meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ does not like to meet him either. (Musnad Ibn Rahwiyyah, vol. 3, pp. 905, Gheebat ki Tabah Kariyan, pp. 96)

اَللّٰهُمَّ اَجِرۡنِيۡ مِنَ النَّارِ 0

O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, save me from the Fire [of Hell].

يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ يَا مُجِيۡرُ 0

O the Protector, O the Protector, O the Protector.

بِرَحۡمَتِكَ يَا اَرۡحَمَ الرَّاحِـمِيۡنَ 0

Have mercy upon us for the sake of Your mercy, O the Most Merciful.

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Green flag

Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated in which this blessed saying of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم about Shab-e-Qadr has been reported: ‘In Layla-tul-Qadr, By the commandment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, accompanied by a very large number of [the army of] angels descends onto the earth with a green flag and hoists the green flag

on Ka’bah Mu’azzamah. Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام has 100 arms, two of which he opens only during this night. Those arms spread across the east and the west. Then Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام commands the angels to say Salam and shake hands with the Muslims who are busy with worship, S alah or the ZŻikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and to say Aameen to their Du’as tonight. It continues until the morning.

In the morning, Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام commands the angels to return. The angels humbly say ‘O Jibrail عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام what about the needs of the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ?’ Sayyiduna Jibraeel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام replies, ‘Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ had special mercy on them and forgiven all of them except four types of people.’

The blessed companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم humbly asked, ‘Ya Rasoolallah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Who are the four types of people?’ He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied, (1) Alcoholics (2) Disobedient to parents (3) Those who break off relations with relatives (4) Those who bear malice and hatred towards one another and break off relations with one another.’ (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, pp. 336, vol. 3, Hadees 3695)

Unfortunate people

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you noticed how blessed and sacred night Layla-tul-Qadr is! Everyone is forgiven during this night, but alcoholics, those who disobey their parents, break off relations with relatives and bear malice towards one another without any Shar’i reason and due to it break off relations with one another remain deprived of this general forgiveness.

Repent!

Dear Islamic brothers! Is it not sufficient to tremble with the wrath of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ? How extreme sinners would be the ones who are not being forgiven even during the sacred and blessed night of Layla-tul-Qadr! However, if we repent sincerely of these sins and also settle the matters related to the rights of people, the blessings and favours of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ are immense and enormous. Hence repenting of all sins we should become busy performing

virtuous deeds. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessing, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will forgive our sins and make us enter Paradise. In Ayah 31 of Surah An-Nisa, Part 5, it is stated:

اِنْ تَجْتَنِبُوْا كَبَآىٕرَ مَا تُنْهَوْنَ عَنْهُ نُكَفِّرْ عَنْكُمْ سَیِّاٰتِكُمْ وَ نُدْخِلْكُمْ مُّدْخَلًا كَرِیْمًا(۳۱)

If you keep avoiding the cardinal sins that are forbidden to you, We will forgive you your other (lesser) sins and admit you into a noble place.

[Kanz-ul-Iman (Translation of Quran)](Parah 5, Surah An-Nisa, Ayah 31)

Regarding the exegesis of this blessed Ayah Sayyid Muhammad Naeemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: ‘Kufr and Shirk’ will not be forgiven if a person dies in these states (May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us!). The rest of the sins [minor or grave] are at the Will of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ whether He عَزَّوَجَلَّ inflicts torment for them or forgives them. (Khazain-ul-Irfan, Parah 5, Surah An-NIsa, pp. 149)

Dear Islamic brothers! Study the book ‘Deeds leading to Hell’ published by Maktaba tul Madinah in order to get information about the deeds which lead to Hell and to know about the warnings consisting of the torments for these sins. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, it will bring huge benefit.

This book, ‘Deeds leading to Hell’ is the Urdu translation of a very useful compilation namely, ‘Az-Zawajir’ of ‘Allamah Abu Al-Abbas Ahmad Bin Muhammad Bin Ali Bin Hajjar Makki Shafai Hatimi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه . In this book, ‘Allamah Ibn-e-Hajjar Makki رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned these kinds of sins in detail and tried to include every that saying and deed which can bring about the displeasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Two types [apparent and concealed] of every sin have been stated in this book. Approximately 240 sins have been mentioned in the first volume out of which 67 are concealed sins and 173 are apparent sins. Few of them are as follows: Shirk-e-Akbar, Shirk-e-Asghar i.e.

showing-off, jealousy, malice, arrogance, vanity, adulteration, hypocrisy, greed, respecting the rich because of their wealth and humiliating the poor because of their poverty, ingratitude, evil presumption, persistence of sins, having no fear of the hidden plan of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, feeling hopeless with the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, disobedience to parents and associating false things to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, etc. 227 apparent sins have been mentioned in the 2 nd volume.

Buy this book from Maktaba-tul-Madinah for identifying grave sins, awareness of the deeds leading to Hell and for attaining fear of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Both the volumes of this book, which can be read, downloaded and printed, are available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami www.dawateislami.net . Both volumes of this book are very useful for the preparation of the speeches for preachers (Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters).

Travelling with Madani Qafilah from the night of Eid-ul-Fitr

Dear Islamic Brothers! Many devotees of Rasool and the devotees of Ramadan have been privileged to observe I’tikaf for the whole month of Ramadan or the last ten-day Sunnah I’tikaf. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ accept I’tikaf in His blessed court! During the I’tikaf, they would have learnt how to recite the Holy Quran with correct places of articulation, observed practical way of offering Salah and method of offering funeral Salah. Moreover, they would have had the opportunities to gain obligatory knowledge as well as they would have memorized many Du’as. By virtue of the blessings of the company of devotees of Ramadan and the fragrant Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, they would have made up their minds to live their lives as per Sunnah in future after repenting of their sins and by obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Valuing their life they would have attained the passion for performing lots of Madani activities.

But remember! Satan is our real enemy! This accursed Satan will never want us to be steadfast in our repentance and live a virtuous life after refraining from sins. If we want to refresh our memories of the blessed month of Ramadan and retain whatever we have learnt and want the privilege to act upon them, we have to travel with Madani Qafilah in the company of devotees of Rasool immediately from the night of Eid-ul-Fitr or the day of Eid. It is hoped by the mercy of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ that by virtue of the blessing of this Madani Qafilah we will spend the blessed moments of the day of Eid in Masjid instead of spending them in sinful company. As a result, we will be blessed with spiritual peace and we will be steadfast in Madani environment. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡ اعَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani Pearls of Protecting Emaan (Faith)

Dear Islamic brothers! At the end of the Bayan, let’s have the privilege of listening to some Madani pearls of protecting faith.

First of all, let’s listen to a blessed saying of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Hurry regarding virtuous deeds before these Fitnas which are like the parts of dark night. One person will be a believer in the morning and an unbeliever in the evening and will be a believer in the evening and will be an unbeliever in the morning. Besides it he will sell his religion in exchange for worldly things. (Muslim, pp. 73, Hadees 118,) For a Muslim his most precious asset/possession is his faith. We should care for its protection much more than worldly things. (Tarbiyat-e-Aulaad, pp. 80) A person should, from time to time, keep on making repentance, redoing his faith and getting his Nikah performed again. If he is sure that he has said the utterances of unbelief, it is Fard [mandatory] for him, otherwise it is Mustahab. (Iman Ki Hifazat, pp. 9) A person should never trust himself or his obedience and deeds. He should always trust Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and make Du’a to Him for the continuity of his faith. (Iman Ki Hifazat, pp. 21) It is an individual responsibility of every Muslim to be anxious and make effort to protect his faith. (Iman Ki Hifazat, pp. 1) The one who dies after deviating from

his faith [i.e. as an apostate] will remain in Hell forever. (Kufriyah Kalimat, pp. 2) Besides being steadfast in virtuous deeds another source of protecting faith is to become the disciple of a perfect spiritual guide. (Tarbiyat-e-Aulad, pp. 80) The person who becomes careless despite being Hajj Fard for him and dies without performing Hajj so there is a considerable risk that he may meet bad end. (Buray Khatimay Kay Asbab, pp. 20) Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: If you want to stay safe from bad end, spend your entire life obeying Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and avoid every sin. (Ihya-ul-Uloom, vol. 4, pp. 219)

Buy and study two books namely, ‘Bahar-e-Shari’at part 16 (312 pages) and 120-page book, ‘Sunnahs and Manners’ published by Maktaba tul Madinah and two booklets of Ameer Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـهْ namely, ‘101 Madani Pearls’ and ‘163 Madani Pearls’ in order to learn different types of thousands of Sunnahs. Another best way of learning Sunnah is to travel with the Madani Qafilas of Dawat-e-Islami in the company of devotees of Rasool.

Du’a of Shab-e-Qadr

This time, in the Madani Halaqas of weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami, Islamic brothers are made to memorize the ‘Du’a of Shab-e-Qadr’ as per the schedule. The Du’a is as follows:

Sayyidatuna Aisha Siddiqah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has narrated: I humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ya Rasool Allah! صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم If I become aware of Shab-e-Qadr what should I read?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم replied: Make Du’a like this:

اَللّٰھُمَّ اِنَّکَ عَفُوٌّکَرِیْمٌ تُحِبُّ الْعَفْوَفَاعْفُ عَنِّیْ

Translation: O Allah Paak! Undoubtedly, You are the One Who grant pardon, show forgiveness and like granting pardon. Hence grant me pardon. (Sunan-e-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 306, Hadees 3524)

صَـلُّوا عَلَى الْـحَـبِيْب صَـلَّى الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰى عَـلٰى مُـحَـمَّد

