Table of Contents

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . 2

Two Madani pearls . 3

Intentions of listening to the Bayan . 3

The most blessed night! 4

Glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as described by Sayyiduna Musa . 4

Glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم described by Sayyiduna Aadam .. 10

Most loved one amongst creation . 11

Glorification of the greatness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by Sayyiduna Nuh . 12

1. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 16

2. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 17

3. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 17

4. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 17

5. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 18

6. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 18

7. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ya’qoob عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 18

8. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 19

9. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ayyub عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 19

10. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 19

11. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Yoosha’ عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 20

12. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 20

13. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 21

14. Characteristics of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . 22

Introduction of the book ‘Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi’ 23

Introduction of Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah . 23

One of the 12 Madani activities is Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults! 24

Madani parable . 24

Difference between Khaleel and Habib . 25

The 12 th [Rabi’-ul-Awwal] . 33

اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ علٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

Glorification of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by Blessed Ambiya

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf, and eating and drinking will also become permissible for you in the Masjid.

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

Whoever recites Salat upon me one time, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends ten mercies upon him. And whoever recites Salat upon me ten times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sends 100 blessings upon him and whoever recites Salat upon me 100 times, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will write between both of his eyes that he is free from hypocrisy and the hellfire; and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will keep him with the martyrs on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 5, pp. 252, Hadees 2735)

پڑھو سلام کرو ڈُوب کر مَحَبَّت دُرودِ پاک کی کثرت نبی کی آمد ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit as I sit in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of showing respect for religious knowledge.

I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The most blessed night!

Dear Islamic brothers! It is the 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal 1438 AH. It is a very blessed night. Millions of thanks to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who has blessed us with this sacred night once again. This is the night in which the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was born in this world.

بُجھ گئیں جس کے آگے سبھی مشعلیں

شمع وہ لے کر آیا ہمارا نبی

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم all excellent characteristics, and has created him free from every fault and defect. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is the most respected person. Many eras and ages have passed, but none will ever appear with such a high rank and status. In today’s Bayan, we would have the privilege of listening to the great rank and status of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as described by other Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام . Let’s first listen to a beautiful couplet of Imam-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, Maulana Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه:

تِرے خُلق کو حق نے عظیم کہا تِری خِلق کو حق نے جمیل کیا

کوئی تجھ سا ہوا ہے نہ ہوگا شہا ترے خالقِ حُسن و اَدا کی قسم

Glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as described by Sayyiduna Musa

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: The book ‘Tawrah’ was revealed to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . Having read about an Ummah in the sacred book, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah that will appear in the end and will surpass all [i.e. be better than all previous Ummahs]. O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah that will pray to the Almighty عَزَّوَجَلَّ and their prayers will be answered. Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ that is the Ummah of Ahmad

(صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Lord! I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah whose book will remain protected in their hearts and they will recite it from memory. People of the previous Ummahs were unable to memorize the revealed books and they used to read them by looking at the scriptures. [Then] Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked: Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O my Creator! I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah that will give Sadaqah (charity) to their relatives and will be rewarded for it. Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah that if any of them makes the intention of performing a good deed, then he will be granted the reward of one good deed just for making the intention. And if he performs that good deed, then he will be granted the reward of 10 good deeds. O Lord! Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم).

Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have read in the Tawrah about an Ummah that if anyone from that Ummah makes the intention of committing a sin, his sin will not be recorded. If he commits the sin, then only one sin will be recorded. O my Lord! Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: I have read in the Tawrah about such an Ummah that will have knowledge of the predecessors and successors and they will remove deviation and will kill Dajjaal. O Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Make it my Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: ‘ تِلْکَ اُمَّۃُ اَحْمَدْ ’ i.e., that is the Ummah of Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم). Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked: Then, make me from among the Ummah of Ahmad. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said, (by granting two privileges to him): O Musa! I have chosen you for My message (i.e. Risalah) and for My Word. Accept whatever I am bestowing upon you and be among those who are grateful. Listening to this Divine command, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I am pleased. (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 33 Hadees 31)

Similarly, in a Hadees Qudsi, it is mentioned that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم stated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام ordering him to convey the message to the Bani Israel that whoever does not believe in Ahmad (i.e., the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) will be made by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to enter Hell. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Who is Ahmad? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: I have not created any creation more honourable than him in My court. Before I created the earth and the sky, I wrote his name next to my name on the ‘Arsh. I have declared it Haraam for all the creatures to enter Jannah unless he (Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and his Ummah enter it. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! What are the attributes of his Ummah? Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: His Ummah will be very grateful and express much thanks. When Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ mentioned more attributes, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: Make me the Nabi of that Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: The Nabi of that Ummah will be sent from among them. Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Almighty! Make me a follower of this Ummah. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: You will be sent earlier and he will be sent later, but I will make both of you gather together in the eternal place (i.e. Jannah). (Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 23)

Dear Islamic brothers! سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ You have just heard that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ bestowed great glory and ranks upon the Beloved and Blessed Nabi Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as well as upon his Ummah. This is the greatest of all Ummahs. If anyone has the intention of performing a virtuous deed, then he will be granted the reward of one virtuous deed just for making the intention. And if he performs that virtuous deed, he will be granted the reward of 10 virtuous deeds. And if anyone from this Ummah makes an intention of committing a sin, his sin will not be recorded. If he commits the sin, then only will one sin be recorded. When Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام became aware of the attributes of this Ummah, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام wished to become the Nabi of that Ummah. However, it was not granted. So he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام requested that he be included in the Ummah of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Remember! The greatness and glory bestowed upon this Ummah by Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ for the sake of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم were not granted to other

Ummahs. This is one of the reasons that the lovers of the Holy Nabi recite couplets in expressing happiness at his arrival in the world:

یہ کس شہنشاہِ والا کی آمد آمد ہے یہ کون سے شہِ بالا کی آمد آمد ہے

وہ آئے آنے کی جن کے خبر تھی مُدت سے دُعا خلیل کی عیسٰی کی جو بشارت تھے

رُسُل انہی کا تو مُژدہ سُنانے آئے ہیں اُنہِیں کے آنے کی خُوشیاں منانے آئے ہیں

کتابِ حضرت مُوسٰی میں وصف ہیں ان کے کتابِ عیسی میں ان کے افسانے آئے ہیں

www

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Listening to the excellence of the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم described by Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام in the Tawrah, one may think that the greatness and glory mentioned in the Tawrah is about the Ummah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم only, and not about the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Remember! The excellence, characteristics, glory and greatness bestowed upon this Ummah, is in fact through the Sadaqah (medium) of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . If the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not arrived into this world, there would not have been any jinn, human, sun, moon, earth, sky, no Lawh and Qalam, nor ‘Arsh and Kursi, no Jannah, no Hell, no maidens of Paradise and no angels.

In short! The universe was created for the Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as it is mentioned in the blessed Hadees: Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Bin ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ sent a revelation to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام:

O ‘Isa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)! Have belief (Iman) in Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and order those people of your Ummah who will live in his era to believe in him. ‘ فَلَوۡ لَا مُحَمَّدٌ مَا خَلَقۡتُ اٰدَمَ وَلَا الۡجَنَّ ةَ وَلَا النَّارَ ’ If I had not created Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), I would not have created Aadam, Jannah and Hell ’. When I made the ‘Arsh upon the water, it was moving. I wrote ‘ لَآ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوۡلُ اللّٰهِ ’ on it, then it became still. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 1, pp. 14)

زمین و زماں تمہارے لئے مکین و مکاں تمہارے لئے

چُنین و چُناں تمہارے لئے بنے دو جہاں تمہارے لئے

دَہن میں زباں تمہارے لیے بدن میں ہے جاں تمہارے لیے

ہم آئے یہاں تمہارے لیے اُٹھیں بھی وہاں تمہارے لیے

تمہاری چمک تمہاری دمک تمہاری جھلک تمہاری مہک

زمین و فلک سماک و سمک میں سِکّہ نِشاں تمہارے لئے

کلیم و نجی مسیح و صفی خلیل و رضی رسول و نبی

عتیق و وصی غنی و علی ثنا کی زباں تمہارے لیے

یہ شمس و قمر یہ شام و سحر یہ برگ و شجر یہ باغ و ثمر

یہ تیغ و سپر یہ تاج و کمر یہ حکمِ رواں تمہارے لئے

Dear Islamic brothers! It is now obvious that the existence of all things in this world is through the Sadaqah of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created all other Ambiya including Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, all creatures and universes, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ created the Noor (Light) of His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, as is stated by Sayyiduna Jabir in the following Hadees: ‘ اَوَّلُ مَا خَلَقَ اللّٰہُ نُوْرَ نَبِیِّکَ یَا جَابر ’ i.e. O Jabir! First of all, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created the Noor of your Nabi. (Kashf-ul-Khifa, vol. 1, pp. 237)

Dear Islamic brothers! The Greatest and Noblest Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is a human as well as Noor. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even distributes Noor among

others. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم grants Noor upon whomever he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم wishes. The Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on his blessed hand on his chest. It is said th ce stroked the face of Sayyiduna Aseed Bin Abi Ayaas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ and placed at whenever Sayyiduna Aseed Bin Abi Ayaas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ entered any dark home, it would become bright and brilliant. (Kanz-ul-‘Ummal, vol. 7, pp. 123, Hadees 36819; Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 142)

Let’s also recite the praises of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم of Noor who removed the darkness of disbelief and polytheism [i.e. Kufr and Shirk] and spread Noor everywhere:

عیدِ میلادُ النّبی ہے دل بڑا مسرور ہے ہر طرف ہے شادمانی رَنج و غم کافُور ہے

اِس طرف جو نُور ہے تو اُس طرف بھی نُور ہے ذَرّہ ذَرّہ سب جہاں کا نُور سے معمور ہے

آمدِ سرکار سے ظُلمت ہوئی کافُور ہے کیا زمیں کیا آسماں ہر سمت چھایا نُور ہے

جشنِ میلادُ النبی ہے کیوں نہ جُھومیں آج ہم مُسکراتی ہیں بہاریں سب فضا پُر نُور ہے

مل کے دیوانو! پڑھو سارے دُرُود اب جُھوم کر آج وہ آیا جہاں میں جو سراپا نُور ہے

آمنہ تجھ کو مبارک شاہ کا مِیلاد ہو تیرا آنگن نُور، تیرا گھر کا گھر سب نُور ہے

www

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted His Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم such greatness and glory that all other Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام praised him and described his excellences and eminence. Sayyiduna Imam Boosayri wrote the following couplet in his world famous Qasidah Burdah:

وَکُلُّھُمْ مِّن رَّسُوْلِ اللہِ مُلْتَمِسٌ غَرْفًامِّنَ الْبَحْرِاَوْرَشْفًامِّنَ الدِّیَمٖ

Translation: All other Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are seeking only as much water as can be contained in one’s cupped hand or a single drop of water from the ocean of the generosity of the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

In this context, let’s listen to a summary of what A’la Hadrat, Imam Ahmad Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: All the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, in their sacred gathering, described the excellences, virtues and praises of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . They made their Ummah promise to have faith in the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and to help him.

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 3, pp. 135)

Glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم described by Sayyiduna Aadam

Dear Islamic brothers! Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is known by us all. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted him the privilege of becoming the father of all humans. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also commanded all the angels to prostrate before him and made him stay in Paradise. Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had great affection for the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . He once praised the Beloved Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in the presence of his son Sayyiduna Shees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and advised him to mention the Beloved Nabi Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام said to his son: Whenever you make the Zikr of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, then also make the Zikr of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . I saw his name written on the pillars of the ‘Arsh at the time when I was between soul and soil [i.e. going to be created]. When I was made to visit the skies, I also saw his name written everywhere. Then I was made to stay in Paradise where I also saw the name ‘Muhammad’ written on every palace and door of Paradise. In addition to this, I saw the name ‘Muhammad’ written on the foreheads of the maidens of Paradise, on the leaves of the Tuba tree, Sidra-tul-Muntaha tree and other trees of Paradise, at the corner of the Hijabat-e-Ilahiyyah and between the eyes of the angels. Therefore, mention him in abundance. Indeed the angels also continue to mention him all the time. (Tareekh Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 23, pp. 281, Raqm 2781)

Most loved one amongst creation

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: When Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام requested in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ: O my Lord عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Forgive me for the sake of Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: O Aadam! How do you know about him; I have not even created him yet? Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly said: O Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ! After You created me and entered the soul into my body, I lifted my head and saw ‘ لَآ اِلٰہَ اِلَّا اللہُ مُحَمَّدٌ رَّسُوْلُ اللہِ ’ written on the pillars of the ‘Arsh. Therefore, I became aware that the person whose name is written with Your name is the most beloved in Your court. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said: O Aadam! You have spoken the truth. Indeed he is the most beloved of all creation in My court. You pray to Me with his Wasilah, I will forgive you. ‘ وَلَوْ لَا مُحَمَّدٌ مَا خَلَقْتُكَ ’ if Muhammad had not been created, I would not have created you. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 3, pp. 517, Hadees 4286)

نُوح و خلیل و مُوسٰی و عیسٰی سب کا ہے آقا نامِ محمد

آنکھوں کا تارا نامِ محمد دِل کا اُجالا نامِ محمد

اللهُ اَکبَر رَبُّ العُلٰی نے ہر شے پہ لکھا نامِ محمد

ہیں یُوں تو کثرت سے نام لیکن سب سے ہے پیارا نامِ محمد

دولت جو چاہو دونوں جہاں کی کرلو وظیفہ نامِ محمد

صلِّ علٰی کا سہرا سجا کر دُولہا بنایا نامِ محمد

شیدا نہ کیوں ہوں اس پر مسلماں رَبّ کو ہے پیارا نامِ محمد

آنکھوں میں آ کر دل میں سَما کر رنگت رَچا جا نامِ محمد

www

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

Dear Islamic brothers! We have just got the privilege of hearing about the glory of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as described by Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . It can be said to be a great grace of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made His Ma’soom Ambiya praise the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم even before his blessed birth in this world. After Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ continued to send Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام in the world until Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was sent to reform the people. Indeed Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام holds a great status and rank among the Ambiya. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام spared no effort to lead his nation to the path of true guidance but this unfortunate nation, excluding some people, did not accept the message of true guidance. Even on the Plains of Resurrection, this unfortunate nation while standing in the Divine court will lay a false blame on Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام who will prove them to be liars. Meanwhile, all those who were born in the earlier and latter period, will describe the attributes of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Plains of Resurrection. Let’s now hear about the glory of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as described by Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام .

Glorification of the greatness of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم by Sayyiduna Nuh

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: Indeed, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will initially call Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and his Ummah, and will ask: What response did you give to the Nuh (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام)? They will say: Neither did he call us towards righteousness, nor did he relate to us any of Your commandment, nor did he give any advice or enjoin us to do anything nor did he forbid us. Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will humbly say: O my Rab عَزَّوَجَلَّ! My preaching was for all predecessors and successors. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will ask the angels to call Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) and his Ummah. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم along with his Ummah, will arrive in such a way that their Noor will be ahead of them. Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will ask to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his Ummah: Do you know that I had conveyed the message of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to my entire Ummah, and I had tried my best to make them understand to save them from Hell but still they kept running away from my preaching. Upon this, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his Ummah will say: We bear witness that whatever you have said is all true. To this, the Ummah of

Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام would comment: O Ahmad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! How could you and your Ummah know about this? We are the earliest Ummah whereas you and your Ummah came later. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would recite Surah Nuh, and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would complete the Surah, his Ummah would say! We bear witness that this is a true story and there is no deity except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and undoubtedly Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is All- Dominant, All-Wise. (Al-Mustadrak, vol. 3, pp. 414, Hadees 4066)

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant such grandeur and a lofty status upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم on the Day of Resurrection that he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will endorse the preaching and the Risalah of blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, on the intense Day of Judgement, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will initially intercede for all people present on the Plains of Resurrection. Remember! The Day of Resurrection will be equivalent to 50,000 years, the earth will be turned into heated copper, sun will be blazing in full strength being just a mile away, many people will be drenched in their sweat, they will be parched due to severe thirst. It will be the most difficult time and there will be no helper at all. On the Day of Resurrection, people will be looking for any helper who could help them with salvation from this misfortune and they will look to those who are of high status to intercede for them with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ so that He might relieve them of this distress that they are suffering from, to pass judgement against them. Thereafter people decide that since Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام is the father of all of us and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ created Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام as the first human and granted him a place to live in Jannah and conferred him with Nubuwwah (Prophethood). We should go into his court, he will help us with salvation from this misfortune.

So they will approach Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, and say, ‘Intercede for us with Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will say, ‘I am not fit for this undertaking. Go to Ibraheem (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام), for he is the close friend of the Most Merciful.’ So they will go to Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, but he will say, ‘I am not fit for this undertaking. Go to Musa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) for he is the one to whom Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ spoke directly.’ So they will go to Sayyiduna Musa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) but he will say, ‘I am not fit for this undertaking, go to ‘Isa (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام). They will go to Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام and relate his excellence that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted him. But

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام will say, ‘I am not fit for this undertaking. Go to the Beloved Rasool Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .’ So they will approach me and I will say, I am for that, and after saying this the Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will fall down in prostration (Sajdah) before Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say, ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم), raise your head. Speak and intercession will be granted to you, ask and you will be given, intercede and your intercession will be accepted.’

(Bahar-e-Shari’at, vol. 1, pp. 139)

Dear Islamic brothers! سُـبْحٰـنَ الـلّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, have you seen the glory and splendour that Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, on the Day of Judgement. The sun will be blazing just a mile away and people will be standing barefoot on the burning ground made of copper. It will be the most difficult time when everyone will be running away from his siblings, parents, wife and children and will only be thinking about himself. Furthermore, sinners will be fully drenched in their sweat. On that day, our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will protect his sinful Ummah from the torments of Hell and will constantly be seeking permission from Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ to intercede on behalf of his Ummah. Then Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will grant the authority of intercession upon His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and by the bestowal of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will intercede on behalf of his Ummah, releasing them from Hell and will make them enter Jannah, اِنْ شَــآءَالـلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

How will we able to seek salvation in the most troublesome time of the Day of Judgement. The blessed brother of A’la Hadrat, Maulana Hasan Raza Khan رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه depicts this scenario through his poetic words:

تمہارا نام مصیبت میں جب لیا ہوگا ہمارا بِگڑا ہوا کام بن گیا ہوگا

گناہگار پہ جب لُطف آپ کا ہوگا کیا بغیر کیا بے کیا، کیا ہوگا

خُدا کا لُطف ہوا ہوگا دَستگیر ضرور جو گِرتے گِرتے تِرا نام لے لیا ہوگا

دِکھائی جائے گی محشر میں شانِ محبوبی کہ آپ ہی کی خوشی آپ کا کہا ہوگا

کسی کے پاؤں کی بیڑی یہ کاٹتے ہوں گے کوئی اسیرِ غم ان کو پُکارتا ہوگا

کسی طرف سے صدا آئے گی حضور آؤ نہیں تو دَم میں غریبوں کا فیصلہ ہوگا

کوئی کہے گا دُہائی ہے یا رسول الله تو کوئی تھام کے دامن مچل گیا ہوگا

یہ بے قرار کرے گی صدا غریبوں کی مقدس آنکھوں سے تار اَشک کا بندھا ہوگا

ہزار جان فِدا نرم نرم پاؤں سے پُکار سُن کے اسیروں کی دوڑتا ہوگا

عزیز بچّہ کو ماں جس طرح تلاش کرے خدا گواہ یہی حال آپ کا ہوگا

خدائی بھر اِنہِیں ہاتھوں کو دیکھتی ہوگی زمانہ بھر اِنہِیں قدموں پہ لوٹتا ہوگا

میں اُن کے دَر کا بھکاری ہوں فضلِ مولٰی سے حسن فقیر کا جنّت میں بِسترا ہوگا

www

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Usually the bigger the status one possesses, the more excellent virtues he should have, through which, he could look distinctive over other people and if a number of wonderful traits gather in one person at the same time then his rank becomes even higher. Undoubtedly, the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام are the most superior and the most distinguished ones of all in every aspect; therefore, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has adorned them with diverse virtues but how great is the eminence and distinction of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم that the virtues Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has bestowed upon other blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, have all been gathered in the blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Listen to the lovely words of any poet:

کوئی مثل مصطفٰے کا کبھی تھا نہ ہے نہ ہوگا

کسی اور کا یہ رُتبہ کبھی تھا نہ ہے نہ ہوگا

‘Allamah Muhammad Noor Bakhsh Taukili has mentioned the virtues in his book ‘ Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi ’ which were bestowed upon the earlier blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام and the same virtuous traits and characteristics are also the part of the personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Let’s listen to a summary of these beautiful characteristics:

1. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام the knowledge of the names of everything; moreover, the blessed angels prostrated before him. Whereas, apart from the knowledge of the names, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was given the knowledge of Musammayat [ مُسَمَّیات ] (i.e., not only was he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم granted the knowledge of the names of everything but also all other information of those things). Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and His blessed angels send Salat on the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the Mu`mineen also send Salat and salutations. This is the most perfect nobility because the prostration made before Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was done once but the recitation of the blessed Salat and Salam remains continued forever and this nobility is also practiced widely because for prostration, there were angels alone, whereas, in the noble act of recitation of Salat, the angels and Mu`mineen are all included.

Sayyiduna Imam Fakhruddin Raazi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned in the Tafseer Kabeer: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ commanded to the angels to prostrate because Noor of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) was present on the forehead of Sayyiduna Aadam عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام that time. (Tafseer Kabeer, vol. 3, pp. 525)

مومنو! پڑھتے نہیں کیوں اپنے آقا پر دُرُود

ہے فِرشتوں کا وظیفہ اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَام

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

2. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ raised Sayyiduna Idrees عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام to the heavens whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was taken above the heavens to the sacred place ‘Qaaba Qawsayn’ [ قَابَ قَوۡسَیۡنِ ] on the blessed night of Shab-e-Mi’raaj.

3. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Those who had Iman in Sayyiduna Nuh عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام were granted salvation from drowning whereas by the blessings of just the presence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, his Ummah remained protected from the torment of destruction as it is mentioned in the Glorious Quran:

وَ مَا كَانَ اللّٰهُ لِیُعَذِّبَهُمْ وَ اَنْتَ فِیْهِمْؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: And it is not for Allah to punish them while you O dear Rasool (Muhammad) are amongst them.

(Part 9, Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 33)

By the blessings of the Noor of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also protected the ark of Sayyiduna Nuh from sinking because the Noor of Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم) was present on the forehead of the Sayyiduna Saam رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ that time. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 104)

کشتیِ نوح میں، نارِ نمرود میں بطنِ ماہی میں یُونُس کی فریاد پر

آپ کا نامِ نامی اے صلِّ علٰی ہر جگہ ہر مصیبت میں کام آگیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

4. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ caused a rock to move and break apart, producing a she-camel for Sayyiduna Saalih عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, and he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had matchless eloquence. Whereas

the camel of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم obeyed him and even spoke to him. None could reach the level of eloquence of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 95)

میں نثار تیرے کلام پر ملی یوں تو کس کو زباں نہیں

وہ سُخن ہے جس میں سُخن نہ ہو وہ بیان ہے جس کا بیاں نہیں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

5. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ made the fire cool for Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . By the blessings of the Noor of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, that fire which was lit for Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام became cool. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 4, pp. 105)

6. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

When Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام began to sacrifice his son, he (Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) showed great patience. Whereas the blessed chest of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was split open (i.e., the incident of the ‘splitting of the chest’ actually did take place), however, Sayyiduna Isma’eel عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was not sacrificed, but Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ replaced him with a ram.

(Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 8, pp. 28-29)

7. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ya’qoob عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

When the brothers of the Sayyiduna Yusuf gave the news that a wolf had eaten him, upon this, Sayyiduna Ya’qoob عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام called the wolf and asked about the matter. The wolf humbly replied: I have not eaten (Sayyiduna) Yusuf (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام). (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 182) Whereas the wolf talked to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 308)

8. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has granted Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام exquisite beauty and elegance whereas the majestic and magnificent beauty bestowed upon the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has not been granted to anybody else. Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was blessed with half of the beauty but the beauty of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was complete. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 315)

حُسنِ یوسُف پہ کٹیں مِصر میں اَنگُشت زَناں

سَر کٹاتے ہیں ترے نام پہ مردانِ عرب

Explanation of the couplet: Upon seeing beauty of Sayyiduna Yusuf عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, the women of Egypt, spontaneously cut off their fingers whereas just on the name of Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the young Arab people have been sacrificing their lives and will continue until the Day of Judgement.

9. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Ayyub عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Sayyiduna Ayyub عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was incredibly patient whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم showed patience and forbearance many times. It means that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم practiced great patience.

10. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ blessed Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام with ‘ یَدِ بَیْضَا ’ (with a bright hand) whereas the seal Nubuwwah (Prophethood) of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was on his blessed back. Apart from this, the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was entirely Noor. If he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم had not been in the form of Bashariyyat (i.e. a human form), no one would have been able to see his majestic beauty.

اِک جھلک دیکھنے کی تاب نہیں عالم کو

وہ اگر جلوہ کریں کون تماشائی ہو

By striking his staff, Sayyiduna Musa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام caused water to gush out from the stone; whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made streams to flow from his blessed fingers. (Al-Khasaais-ul-Kubra, vol. 2, pp. 67)

The miracle of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is more excellent, as water gushing out from a stone is known to happen, but the water that flowed from a human is something marvellous indeed!

انگلیاں ہیں فیض پر ٹُوٹے ہیں پیاسے جھوم کر

ندیاں پنجابِ رحمت کی ہیں جاری واہ واہ

11. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Yoosha’ عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ caused the sun to stop for Sayyiduna Yoosha’ عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام whereas the sun was prevented from setting for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

(Shahrh Zurqaani, vol. 6, pp. 493)

اشارے سے چاند چیر دیا چھپے ہوئے خور کو پھیر دیا

گئے ہوئے دن کو عصر کیا یہ تاب و تواں تمہارے لئے

12. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

The mountains also used to recite Tasbih (glorification) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام whereas the stones in the blessed hands of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم began to recite Tasbih (glorification) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ ; even in the hands of others, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made the stones recite Tasbih (glorification) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Furthermore, the greater attribute is that a voice of the recitation of Tasbih (glorification) of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ used to be heard from the food of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Because we have learnt that a mountain did this, but the glorification from food is something truly amazing.

سنگ و شجر سلام کو حاضر ہیں السَّلام

کلمے سے تر زبان درخت و حجر کی ہے

Birds were made to obey Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام whereas along with birds, many other animals (camels, wolves, lions etc.) have been made to obey the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

Iron used to become soft like wax in the hands of Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام whereas a large stone became soft (i.e., like dough) in the blessed night of Mi’raaj for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . (Dalaail-un-Nubuwwah, pp. 353, 539, Raqm 2)

Sayyiduna Dawood عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام had an incredibly eloquent voice whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was also incredibly eloquent as it is mentioned in a blessed Hadees: ‘ وَکَانَ نَبِیُّکُمْ اَحْسَنَھُمْ وَجْھًا وَ اَحْسَنَھُمْ صَوْتًا ’ (And the [blessed] face of your Nabi was most beautiful and his voice was excessively eloquent). (Shumaail Muhammadiyyah, pp. 183, Hadees 303)

13. Characteristics of Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was blessed with a grand kingdom whereas Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted authority to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم whether to choose a kingdom along with Nubuwwah (Prophethood) or Bandagi (bondmanship). The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم liked bondmanship. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ granted him the keys of the treasures of the soil and granted him authority to hand it over to anybody. (Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi, pp. 558)

کنجی تمہیں دی اپنے خزانوں کی خدا نے

محبوب کیا مالک و مختار بنایا

Sayyiduna Sulayman عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام was well acquainted with the languages of birds whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was well acquainted with the languages of camels, wolves etc. Stone spoke to the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم understood their speech.

ہاں یہیں کرتی ہیں چڑیاں فریاد ہاں یہیں چاہتی ہے ہرنی داد

اِسی در پر شترانِ ناشاد گلۂ رنج و عَنا کرتے ہیں

14. Characteristics of Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام

Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام brought the dead back to life, he عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام gave sight to the blind and cured the leper, whereas the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم also brought the dead to life, gave sight to the blind, and cured the leper. When Khyber was conquered, a non-Muslim woman sent poisonous meat of a nanny goat to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم as a gift, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم took its arm portion and ate some out of it, that arm spoke: Poison has been mixed in me. (Sharh Zurqaani, vol. 3, pp. 290)

اِک دل ہمارا کیا ہے آزار اس کا کتنا

تم نے تو چلتے پھرتے مُردے جِلا دئیے ہیں

Explanation of the couplet: O Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم! Relieving our sorrows is so simple matter for you because you bring the dead back to life in no time then the matter of my heart is not a big thing.

سب سے اَولٰی و اعلٰی ہمَارا نبی سب سے بالا و وَالا ہمَارا نبی

اپنے مولٰی کا پیارا ہمَارا نبی دونوں عالَم کا دُولہا ہمَارا نبی

بزمِ آخر کا شمع فروزاں ہوا نورِ اوّل کا جلوہ ہمَارا نبی

جس کو شایاں ہے عرش خُدا پر جلوس ہے وہ سلطانِ والا ہمَارا نبی

بجھ گئیں جس کے آگے سبھی مشعلیں شمع وہ لے کر آیا ہمَارا نبی

سارے اچھّوں میں اچھّا سمجھئے جسے ہے اُس اچھّے سے اچھّا ہمَارا نبی

سارے اُونچوں میں اُونچا سمجھئے جسے ہے اس اُونچے سے اُونچا ہمَارا نبی

خلق سے اَولیا اَولیا سے رُسل اور رَسولوں سے اَعلٰی ہمَارا نبی

قرنوں بدلی رَسولوں کی ہوتی رہی چاند بدلی کا نکلا ہمَارا نبی

مُلکِ کونین میں اَنبیا تاجدار

تاجداروں کا آقا ہمَارا نبی

سرکار کی آمد مرحبا سردار کی آمد مرحبا سالار کی آمد مرحبا مختار کی آمد مرحبا

غمخوار کی آمد مرحبا تاجدار کی آمد مرحبا شاندار کی آمد مرحبا

مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے مرحبا یا مصطفٰے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Introduction of the book ‘Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi’

Dear Islamic brothers! Whatever miracles and unique characteristics of the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام we have just heard have all been gathered in the personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It means that all the miracles and excellent traits are exist in the blessed personality of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . All the above mentioned information is contained in the remarkable book Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi .

For acquiring more in-depth information about Seerat-e-Mustafa, study the book ‘ Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi ’. Obtain it from Maktaba-tul-Madinah, and if possible, encourage others to also read it. This book is also available on the website of Dawat-e-Islami: www.dawateislami.net . It can be downloaded for free from here as well.

Introduction of Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah

The referencing and editing of the book Seerat-e-Rasool-e-‘Arabi has been carried out by Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah and it is published by the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami ‘Maktaba-tul-Madinah’. Al-Madina-tul- ‘Ilmiyyah is one of the important departments of Dawat-e-Islami which has been rendering its services for the publication of the pure Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, under 16 department of Majlis Al-Madina-tul-‘Ilmiyyah, Quran and Hadees, Tafseer (commentary), Arabic to Urdu, Urdu to Arabic translation works are underway, as well as the work on reformatory books and booklets continue, اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

One of the 12 Madani activities is Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adults!

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Dawat-e-Islami, the global non-political movement for the propagation of Quran and Sunnah, has been serving Islam worldwide through more than 100 of its departments.

Through the blessings of the association of the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami, people earn countless of benefits; you too should participate in the 12 Madani activities committedly. Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan (adult Islamic brothers) is also one of the 12 Madani Zayli activities in which free education of the Glorious Quran is provided, as learning and teaching the Quran is considered as one of the greatest and noblest of acts.

Sayyiduna ‘Usman-e-Ghani رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated, the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: ‘ خَيۡرُكُمۡ مَنۡ تَعَلَّمَ الۡقُرۡاٰنَ وَعَلَّمَه ٗ ’ The best amongst you is the one who learnt the [Glorious] Quran and taught it to others. (Sahih Bukhari, Fazaail-ul-Quran, vol. 3, pp. 410, Hadees 5027)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Regarding the importance and the need of learning and teaching the Glorious Quran and to spread the teachings of the Glorious Quran, thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Baalighan for Islamic brothers are conducted at various Masajid etc. under Dawat-e-Islami and thousands of Madaris-ul-Madinah Baalighat for Islamic sisters are also conducted in different timings at different places. Islamic brothers teach Islamic brothers and Islamic sisters teach Islamic sisters. Various Du’as are memorised along with teaching and learning the Glorious Quran with proper pronunciations, rulings about Salah are also learnt and various Sunnah and Adaab are taught. Therefore, you too should participate in Madrasa-tul-Madinah Baalighan to improve your worldly life and the Hereafter. Let’s listen to a Madani parable for persuasion:

Madani parable

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi has stated: Which sins of mine should I mention! Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ forbid, not offering Salah, playing computer

games, watching obscene programmes on television every day, lying and even stealing were some of the sins I used to bravely commit.

Luckily, in the last ten days of Ramadan in 1421 AH 2000, I was blessed with the privilege of taking part in the congregational I’tikaf with some lovers of the Beloved Rasool of Dawat-e-Islami in Jami’ Masjid Aaminah, situated in Shakeel Garden, Aukhai complex, Bab-ul-Madinah, Karachi. After the congregational I’tikaf, I joined the Madrasa-tul-Madinah that was held on the second floor of Aaminah Masjid.

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I began to attend the weekly Sunnah-Inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e- Islami which was held in Faizan-e-Madinah. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! As a result of my efforts, a Madani atmosphere has been created in my home. I play the cassettes of Sunnah-Inspiring speeches released by Maktaba-tul-Madinah at home. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have memorised the entire Holy Quran and I’m currently doing Dars-e-Nizami in Jami’a-tul-Madinah. I also teach in Madrasa-tul-Madinah and I am trying to spread the Madani work of Dawat-e-Islami under the guidance of the Nigran of my Zayli Mushawarat.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! It is possible that a question may arise in your mind about the difference between Khaleel and Habib. So listen to its answer in the words of a blessed saint of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . In Fatawa Razawiyyah, mentioning the difference between both of them, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated:

Difference between Khaleel and Habib

1. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a to stay safe from disgrace on the Day of Judgement. (Part 19, Ash-Shu’ara, Ayah 87) Whereas Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself gave the good news of protection from the disgrace of the Day of Judgement, to His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and for his sake, [also] to his Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم . (Part 28, At-Tahreem, Ayah 8)

1. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام desired to meet Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Part 23, As-Saffaat, Ayah 99) Whereas Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself called His Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم with the privilege of meeting Him. (Part 15, Bani Israel, Ayah 1)

2. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام wished for guidance. (Part 23, As-Saffaat, Ayah 99) While Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: And to show you the Straight Path . (Part 26, Al-Fath, Ayah 2)

3. Angels came to Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام as respectable and honourable guests. (Part 26, Az-Zariyaat, Ayah 24) And for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said: Angels became his supporters and protectors . (Part 4, Aal-e-‘Imran, Ayah 125)

4. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a for the forgiveness of his Ummah. (Part 13, Ibraheem, Ayah 41) While Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself commanded the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: Ask for the forgiveness of your Ummah . (Part 26, Muhammad, Ayah 19)

5. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام made Du’a for his blessed Zikr to continue amongst his successors. (Ash-Shu’ara, Ayah 84) While Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Himself said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: And We have exalted your remembrance for you . (Part 30, Alam-Nashrah, Ayah 4)

6. In the incident of Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated: He strived hard to remove punishment from the Qawm [i.e. people] of Lut . (Part 20, Al-‘Ankaboot, Ayah 32) Whereas Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: And it is not for Allah to punish them while you O dear Rasool (Muhammad) are amongst them . (Part 9, Al-Anfaal, Ayah 33)

7. Sayyiduna Ibraheem عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام humbly asked: O Allah! Accept my Du’a . (Part 13, Ibraheem, Ayah 40) While Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has said to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his followers: And your Lord proclaimed, ‘Pray to Me, I will accept. ’ (Part 24, Al-Mu`min, Ayah 60)

(Fatawa Razawiyyah, vol. 30, pp. 178-182)

تُو ہی انبیا کا سرور تُو ہی دو جہاں کا یاور تُو ہی رہبرِ زمانہ مدنی مدینے والے

تُو خدا کے بعد بہتر ہے سبھی سے میرے سرور تِرا ہاشمی گھرانا مدنی مدینے والے

تِری فرش پر حکومت تری عرش پر حکومت تُو شہَنشہِ زمانہ مدنی مدینے والے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Surely, the glory of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is so exalted that even if the entire creation makes a collective effort, they would still not be able to mention his glory and dignity [in its entirety]. Whenever the glory of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is mentioned, the lovers of the Beloved Rasool show intense devotion to him. But remember! This love will be considered complete only when we fulfil its requirements properly. For example, besides expressing love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, we must develop love and reverence for his sayings, his Ahl-e-Bayt, his Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, his city and for everything that has Nisbat [i.e. relation] with him.

Dear Islamic brothers! The way Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم used to have love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, similarly, due to having Nisbat and being descendant of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, they used to have great reverence for the Sadaat-e-Kiraam [i.e. his descendants] as well. Therefore, following in their footsteps, we should also respect and honour the descendants of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should treat them well. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The person who treats any of my descendants well, I will bestow upon him its reward on the Day of Judgement. (Al-Jami-us-Sagheer, pp. 5333, Hadees 8821)

اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه also has great reverence for the Sadaat-e-Kiraam and he treats them well. During his public meeting sessions, if he دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه is informed that the person is a ‘Sayyid’ [descendant of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ] then he often humbly kisses

the hand of the descendant prince, out of respect. He also shows his exceptional kindness and affection towards their [Sayyid’s] children.

(Introduction to Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, pp. 61)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Having reverence for the descendants of the Beloved Rasool is a sign of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Furthermore, without reverence and love for the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم, it is useless to claim that one has love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Remember! After the blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْـهِمُ الـصَّلٰوةُ وَالـسَّـلَام, the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم are most worthy of reverence and respect amongst humanity. These are those blessed people who said Labbayk [i.e. at your service] upon the call of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, and after embracing Islam, they remained prepared to convey the eternal message of Islam all over the world by sacrificing everything [i.e. their life and wealth]. These great people made such great and unique sacrifices in order to spread the teachings of the Glorious Quran and blessed Hadees to propagate Islam, which we cannot even imagine today. Therefore, we should show love for these blessed people in order to attain success in both the worlds and we should try to live our lives, following in their footsteps. Let’s listen to some sayings of the Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم related to the glory and greatness of the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم in order to inspire love for them in our hearts:

1. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has given my companions superiority to all the worlds except the Ambiya and Rusul. (Majma’-uz-Zawaid, vol. 9, pp. 736, Hadees 16383)

2. A person humbly asked the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: ‘ اَیُّ النَّاسِ خَیْرٌ ’ i.e. who are the best people?’ The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم responded: ‘ اَلْقَرْنُ الَّذِیْ اَنَافِیْہِ ثُمَّ الثَّانِیْ ثُمَّ الثَّالِثُ ’ i.e. the best people belong to the age in which I live in; then [those] of the second era and then [those] of the third era. (Sahih Muslim, pp. 1371, Hadees 2533)

1. لا تَمَسُّ النَّارُ مُسْلِمًا رَاٰنِیْ اَوْرَاٰی مَنْ رَاٰنِیْ: i.e. the fire of Hell will not touch the Muslim who attained the privilege of seeing me or my companion.

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 5, pp. 461, Hadees 3884)

Therefore, every Muslim should respect the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم from the core of their hearts and sustain their love forever in their hearts and in the hearts of their generations. Love for the Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم is indeed love for the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ protect us from the company of bad people and instil the love of these blessed people in our hearts!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

اہلِ سُنّت کا ہے بیڑا پار اصحابِ حُضُور

نجم ہے اور ناؤ ہے عترت رسولُ الله کی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Reverence for the blessed Sahabah رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم and for the descendants of the Beloved Rasool, and love for them are signs of love for the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Usually the person, who is a true lover, loves even the city of his beloved, the narrow streets of the city, markets, in short, everything of his beloved. Due to relation to the beloved, his city becomes a place of respect and reverence. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we love the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and his love demands that we should have true love for his sacred cities, Makkah Mukarramah and Madinah Tayyibah, and we should maintain their respect in our hearts.

حرم کی زمیں اور قدم رکھ کے چلنا

ارے سر کا موقع ہے اوجانے والے

Dear Islamic brothers! Another sign of showing love to the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم is to strictly act upon the beautiful Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . We should dedicatedly spread the beautiful Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم through our practices, because we can attain high status only by acting upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . It is stated in Ayah 21 of Surah Al-Ahzaab, part 21:

لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِیْهِمْ اُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Indeed following the Noble Rasool of Allah is better for you.

Regarding this Ayah, in Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, Sayyid Muhammad Na’eemuddin Muradabadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Obey him well and help the religion of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, and do not stop supporting the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Be patient on troubles and follow the Sunnah of the Holy Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . All these acts are better. (Khaza`in-ul-‘Irfan, pp. 777)

Sayyiduna Anas Bin Maalik رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has said that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم told me: O my son! If you can make your morning and evening pass in a state that you do not bear malice towards anyone in your heart, then do it. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم then said: O my son! This is my Sunnah, and the one who loves my Sunnah, will be with me in Paradise.

(Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 55, Hadees 175)

Dear Islamic brothers! It has become clear that practising upon the Sunnah of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم brings about goodness in this world and in the Hereafter. The Miswak is a very beautiful Sunnah of our Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Our pious predecessors would love this Sunnah very much. Let’s listen to a parable about this.

Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Wahhab Sha’rani رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has narrated: Once Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli Baghdadi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه needed a Miswak during Wudu. He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه looked for it, but could not find any Miswak. Therefore, he bought a Miswak for a dinar (i.e. one coin of gold) and used it.

Some people said: You have spent so much! Who pays so much for a Miswak?’ He رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه replied: Undoubtedly, in the sight of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, this world, along with all that it contains, are not even worth the wing of a mosquito. What will I answer if on the Day of Judgement, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ asks me: Why did you miss a Sunnah of My Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ? Whatever wealth and possession I had given you, [in My sight], their worth was not even equal to the wing of a mosquito. So why didn’t you spend such insignificant wealth on acting upon this great Sunnah (of the Miswak)?

(Summarized from: Lawaqa-ul-Anwaar, pp. 38)

Dear Islamic brothers! Did you observe! Our pious predecessors would love the Sunnah very much. Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Shibli رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه spent one dinar for the beautiful Sunnah [i.e. Miswak] of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم . Alas! Today, though we consider ourselves to be great lovers of the Beloved Rasool, yet we do not purchase a Miswak despite the fact that it is not even expensive. Let’s listen to three blessed Ahadees about the importance and excellence of Miswak:

1. Make use of the Miswak necessary upon yourselves, because in this lies the cleanliness of the mouth and a cause for (attaining) the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 438, Hadees 5869)

2. In Miswak, there is cure for every disease except death. (Jami’ Sagheer, pp. 297, Hadees 4840)

3. Two Rak’aat offered after using Miswak are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without [using] Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 18)

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen to the Madani pearls of using a Miswak, from the booklet namely, ‘ 163 Madani Pearls ’, authored by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat.

First of all, read two sayings of Rasoolullah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1. Two Rak’aat offered after using Miswak are better than 70 Rak’aat offered without [using] Miswak. (Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 1, pp. 102, Hadees 18)

2. Make use of the Miswak necessary upon yourselves, because in this lies the cleanliness of the mouth and a cause for (attaining) the pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 2, pp. 438, Hadees 5869)

3. On page 288 of the first volume of the book Bahar-e-Shari’at, published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Mufti Muhammad Amjad ‘Ali A’zami رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has mentioned that the honourable scholars have said: Whoever routinely uses the Miswak, will be blessed with the good fortune of reciting the Kalimah (fundamental article of faith) at the time of death, and whoever consumes opium, will not be blessed with the Kalimah at the time of death.

4. Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِیَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُمَا has narrated that Miswak has 10 qualities: (Some of them are that) It cleans the mouth, strengthens the gums, strengthens the eyesight, removes phlegm, removes bad smell of the mouth; it is in accordance with the Sunnah; the angels become happy and Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is pleased.

5. Sayyiduna Imam Shaafi’i رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Four things increase the intellect: (1) Refraining from useless conversations (2) The use of the Miswak (3) The company of the pious people (4) Acting upon your [religious] knowledge.

6. Miswak should be of a twig of arak, olive, Neem, or of any other tree having a bitter taste.

7. The thickness of Miswak should be equal to the thickness of the little finger.

8. Do not throw away a used Miswak or its strands, as it is a means of acting upon the Sunnah. Rather, keep it somewhere respectfully, bury it or put it into the sea.

The 12 th [Rabi’-ul-Awwal]

Dear Islamic brothers! Tonight is the blessed night of 12 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal; for this very reason, we like the number ‘12’. In his Na’tiyah collection, Wasail-e-Bakhshish, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has stated:

کیوں بارہویں پہ ہے سبھی کو پیار آگیا آیا اسی دن احمدِ مختار آگیا

گھر آمنہ کے سیّدِ ابرار آگیا خوشیاں مناؤ غمزدو غمخوار آگیا

برسِیں گھٹائیں رحمتوں کی جُھوم جُھوم کر رحمت سراپا جب مِرا سردار آگیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Due to this beautiful Nisbat of 12 th of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, make an intention to attend at least 12 weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’aat of Dawat-e-Islami from beginning to end i.e. including recitation of the Glorious Quran, Na’at, Bayan, Zikr, Du’a, I’tikaf at night, Madani Halqah after Fajr Salah, till Ishraq and Chasht [i.e. Nawafil offered in the morning]. Also make an intention that by making individual efforts, you will make two Islamic brothers attend the Ijtima’ with you. With this intention, raise your hands and say aloud اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Moreover, make an intention to attend 12 weekly Madani Muzakarahs.

Dear Islamic brothers! Travel with a Madani Qafilah in the month of Rabi’-ul-Awwal, rejoicing at the blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم and if possible, have the privilege of travelling with a 3-day Madani Qafilah of Dawat-e-Islami, soon after this Ijtima’.

Dear Islamic brothers! You should also associate yourselves with the beautiful Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. In the company of devotees of Rasool, during this sacred night, make good intentions to perform righteous deeds. Make intentions to gain knowledge of Fard ‘Uloom, carry out Fikr-e-Madinah through Madani In’amaat daily and travel with a Madani Qafilah.

Dear Islamic brothers! Let’s listen about the blessed moments of Meelad-e-Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: What was the date, the day and the circumstances

when the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came into this world? Let’s listen to this and refresh our faith.

It was the 12 th of Rabi-ul-Awwal and the day was Monday. Sayyiduna ‘Abdul Muttalib رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ, the paternal grandfather of the Beloved Rasool came to the blessed Haram. Sayyidatuna Aaminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا was alone at home as her mother-in-law and husband had already passed away. Her father-in-law was performing the Tawaf of Holy Ka’bah. Sayyidatuna Aaminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا wished that some women from the family of ‘Abd-e-Manaaf were with her. All of a sudden, what she رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا saw was that the house got crowded with extremely noble women. She رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا asked them, ‘O noble women! Who are you? Where have you come from? And why are you here?’ One of them replied: I am Hawwa (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), Umm-ul-Bashar, the mother of all humans, the wife of Sayyiduna Aadam; the second lady replied: I am Aasiyyah (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), the wife of Fir’awn; the third lady replied: I am Maryam (رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا), the mother of Sayyiduna ‘Isa Ruhullah, and all the rest of the women are the Hoors of Paradise. Today Muhammad صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم will come into this world. We are here to welcome him and to look after you. O Aaminah! Take a look outside the door, the crowd of angels are seen all around; the home is crowded with the Hoors of Paradise. They are talking about these beautiful moments in this way:

آئی نِدا کہ آمنہ جاگے تیرے نصیب آئیں گے تیری گودی میں الله کے حبیب

کہا حوروں نے یہ محبوبِ ربُّ العالمیں ہوں گے فِرشتوں نے کہا سرکار ختم المرسلیں ہوں گے

زمیں بولی کہ یہ اسرارِ قدرت کے امیں ہوں گے فَلک بولا کہ ان کے بعد پیمبر نہیں ہوں گے

Shining with the most luminous face, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم arrived in this world having placed his both blessed hands on the floor and having raised his blessed head towards the sky. He صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was full of musk fragrance, kohl-eyed, circumcised, miraculously pure and clean, having no umbilical (navel) cord, and having the blessed seal of Nubuwwah radiating between the blessed shoulders.

As the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came into this world, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed Sajdah in the court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . His blessed fingers [and hands] were raised towards the sky. His blessed lips, more beautiful than the heavenly flowers, were moving and a voice was heard ‘ رَبِّ ھَبۡ لِیۡ اُمَّتِیۡ ، رَبِّ ھَبۡ لِیۡ اُمَّتِیۡ ، رَبِّ ھَبۡ لِیۡ اُمَّتِیۡ ’. Three flags were hoisted on the occasion of the blessed birth of Beloved Mustafa صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم: one in the east, one in the west, and one on the roof of the Holy Ka’bah.

Sayyidatuna Aaminah رَضِیَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهَا has said: At the time of blessed birth of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, such Noor [i.e. spiritual light] shone luminously, making the east and west brightened and I clearly saw the palaces of Syria from Makkah.

آمِنہ تجھ کو مبارک شاہ کا میلاد ہو تیرا آنگن نور، تیرا گھر کا گھر سب نور ہے

اِس طرف جو نور ہے تو اُس طرف بھی نور ہے ذرَّہ ذرَّہ سب جہاں کا نُور سے معمور ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The moment Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم came into this world, he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم performed Sajdah. By the blessing of that great Sajdah, may Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ make us from those who perform Sajdah abundantly and who offer the five daily Salahs regularly in the Masjid with Takbeer-e-Aoola in the first row.

Remember! The five daily Salahs are obligatory for every Muslim man and woman. Denying the obligation of Salah takes the denier out of the fold of Islam. He becomes a Kafir [unbeliever] even if he has an Islamic name or he performs deeds like the Muslims do. The unfortunate person who deliberately misses even one Salah, his name is written on the door of Hell.

رُوحُ الامیں نے گاڑا کعبے کی چھت پہ جھنڈا

تا عرش اُڑا پھریرا صبحِ شبِ ولادت

اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! We will also join the Meelad procession according to the Madani pearls given by Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, holding Madani flags [bearing colours of Gumbad-e-Khazra, Gumbad-e-Ghaus and Gumbad-e-Raza]. Say loudly اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will also observe Sawm today on the 12 th Rabi’-ul-Awwal. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم would observe Sawm every Monday, and when he صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم was asked about the reason, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: This is the day I was born and the same day the first revelation was sent down to me. So اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ we will also observe Sawm today. Raising your hand, say aloud اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ .

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

