اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰہِ رَبِّ الْعٰلَمِیْنَ وَ الصَّلٰوۃُ وَالسَّلَامُ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ الْمُرْسَلِیْنَ ط

اَمَّا بَعْدُ فَاَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰہِ مِنَ الشَّیْطٰنِ الرَّجِیْمِ ط بِسْمِ اللہِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّ حِیْم ط

What has the World Given us?

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا رَسُولَ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا حَبِیْبَ اللہ

اَلصَّلٰوۃُ وَ السَّلَامُ عَلَیْكَ یَا نَبِیَّ اللہ وَعَلٰی اٰلِكَ وَ اَصْحٰبِكَ یَا نُوْرَ اللہ

نَوَيۡتُ سُنَّتَ الۡاِعۡتِكَافِ

Translation: I have made the intention of Sunnah I’tikaf.

Dear Islamic brothers! Whenever you enter a Masjid, upon remembering, make the intention of Nafl (supererogatory) I’tikaf because as long as you stay in the Masjid you will keep obtaining the reward of Nafl I’tikaf.

Remember! By Shari’ah, it is not allowed to eat, drink and sleep in the Masjid, but if one makes the intention of I’tikaf he will be allowed to do these acts in Masjid. It is also important that one shouldn’t make the intention of I’tikaf just to eat, drink or sleep. It should be made to earn the Pleasure of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . It is stated in Rad-dul-Muhtar (Shaami): ‘If someone wants to eat, drink or sleep in a Masjid, he should make the intention of I’tikaf, make some Zikr and then do what he wants (i.e. eat, drink or sleep).’

Excellence of Salat-‘Alan-Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: (Sayyiduna) Jibra`eel (عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام) came to him stating humbly that Allah (عَزَّوَجَلَّ) said: ‘O Muhammad (صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم)! Are you not pleased that when anyone from your Ummah sends Salat upon you once then I shower mercy ten times upon him, and when anyone

from your Ummah sends one Salam, then I send Salams ten times upon him .’ (Mishkat-ul-Masabih, vol. 1, pp. 189, Hadees 928)

اُن پر دُرود جن کو کَسِ بے کَساں کہیں

اُن پر سَلام جن کو خَبَر بے خَبَر کی ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! Before listening to the Bayan, let’s make good intentions for attaining rewards. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘ نِيَّةُ الۡمُؤۡمِنِ خَيۡرٌ مِّنۡ عَمَلِهٖ ’ The intention of a believer is better than his action .

(Al-Mu’jam-ul-Kabeer, vol. 6, pp. 185, Hadees 5942)

Two Madani pearls

٭ Without a good intention, no reward is granted for a good deed.

٭ The more righteous intentions one makes the greater reward he will attain.

Intentions of listening to the Bayan

1 Lowering my eyes, I will listen to the Bayan attentively.

2 Instead of resting against a wall etc., I will sit in reverential posture like that in Tashahhud as long as possible with the intention of paying respect to religious discourse.

3 I will make room for others by folding my hands and limbs and by moving slightly.

4 If someone pushes me, I will remain patient and calm and avoid staring, snapping, and arguing with them.

5 When I hear صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب, اُذۡكُرُوا اللّٰه, تُوۡبُوۡا اِلَي اللّٰه, etc., I will reply loudly with the intention of gaining reward and encouraging others to also recite.

6 After the Bayan, I will approach other people by making Salam, shaking hands, and for making individual efforts upon them.

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Consequence of loving the world

Sayyiduna Wahb bin Munabbih رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام passed by a town whose dwellers humans and jinns, beasts and birds, all four-footed animals and insects were dead. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام stood for a while and kept looking at it and then paying attention to his followers, said: All of them have died of the torment of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . If it wasn’t the case then they would not have died all together. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام then called these deads: O the people of this town! One of them replied: لَبَّیْکْ یَا رُوْحَ اللّٰہ! i.e. O Ruhullah! Here we are! He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: What was your sin? He replied: We used to worship Satan and love the world. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: What was your worship of Satan? He replied: We used to follow the ones who were disobedient to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: How was your love for the world? He replied: It was as a child loves his mother. When the world would come to us, we would feel happy and when it would go away from us, we would feel sad. We had high hopes at the same time and we were displeasing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ by disobeying Him. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: How has it happened to you? He replied: We spent the night peacefully, but in the morning we were in Haawiyah. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: What is Haawiyah? He replied: ‘ سِجِّین ’ [Sijjeen]. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: What is Sijjeen? He replied: It is a live coal of fire equal to the whole parts of the world in which the souls of all of us have been buried. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: Why are your companions not talking? He replied: They cannot talk. He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked about the reason for it. He replied: The reins of fire have been put in their mouths.

He عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام asked: How then are you talking to me though you are also one of them? He replied: Surely I am one of them, but I am not in the state in which they are. When trouble came I also became the victim along with them

and now I am hanging with a hair in Haawiyah; I do not know whether I will be thrown into the fire or I will achieve salvation. (Hilya-tul-Awliya, vol. 4, pp. 64, Raqm 4762)

بے وفا دنیا پہ مت کر اِعتبار تُو اچانک موت کا ہوگا شکار

موت آکر ہی رہے گی یاد رکھ! جان جا کر ہی رہے گی یاد رکھ!

گر جہاں میں سو برس تُو جی بھی لے قبر میں تنہا قیامت تک رہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The above-mentioned horrible parable contains many Madani pearls of advice and admonition for those who love the world. Alas! As we are getting away from the blessed era of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم, the love for mortal world and wealth is becoming very strong in our hearts; everyone is blindly following the world. The greed of a human is not satisfied even after having abundant wealth, many properties, pieces of land, factories, hotels, petrol pumps, shopping malls, markets, plazas, bungalows and splendid cars. If a compassionate devotee of Rasool presents such people the call towards righteousness, they rebuke him by saying: ‘This world respects the one who has wealth; only a wealthy person succeeds’, etc.

We should ponder whether we have become heedless of the admonitory end of the ones who used to love this world. Do we have to live in this world forever? Have we been forgiven? Have we forgotten the torment inflicted on the previous Ummahs? Don’t we learn an admonitory lesson from the funerals we observe frequently? Don’t we learn a lesson from the bedridden patients who are suffering badly? Shall we be able to bear the severities of the agony of death? Have we forgotten the narrow and dark grave? Have we prepared to achieve salvation from the snakes, scorpions and insects in the grave? Have we prepared to answer the questions of Munkar and Nakeer? Anyway, it is safe for us to be busy preparing as much for the world as much we have to live in it and be busy preparing as much for the grave and the Hereafter as much we have to live in the grave and the Hereafter. Many

happy and cheerful people suddenly die and are buried in no time in the dark grave. Similarly, we will also have to die, and be buried in the dark grave and will have to reap what we sow in the world. Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Allamah Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه gives us some Madani pearls of advice:

تُو خوشی کے پُھول لے گا کب تلک؟ تُو یہاں زندہ رہے گا کب تلک؟

دولتِ دُنیا کے پیچھے تُو نہ جا آخرت میں مال کا ہے کام کیا؟

مالِ دنیا دو جہاں میں ہے وبال کام آئے گا نہ پیشِ ذُوالجلال

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Deception of Satan

Dear Islamic brothers! The love of this world is such a deception of Satan in which if a person is trapped, he starts getting away from virtuous deeds. For example, first of all, he gets away from Mustahab acts, then becomes heedless of Sunnahs, and then forms the habit of missing Fard and Wajib acts and then gradually gets into the habit of performing Haraam acts. He misses his Salah regularly and then spends his life in telling lies, committing backbiting, hurting the feelings of others, listening to songs and music and committing many different types of Haraam and impermissible acts. Moreover, the one, who is excessively busy with the world, forgets his relatives. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, gets deprived of sincere friends. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, starts considering the poor to be inferior. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, becomes a miser. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, becomes a victim of the evil of arrogance. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, takes no effect of any advice. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, cannot differentiate between Halal and Haraam. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, becomes heedless of the rights of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ along with the rights of people. The one, who is excessively busy with the world, becomes the victim of thieves, plunderers and robbers. In short, the one who is excessively busy with the world, commits different

types of evils. If the ones who are excessively busy with the world knew the reality of the world, they would never take interest in it. The reality of the world has been mentioned in different blessed Ayahs of the Holy Quran. In Ayah 20 of Surah Al-Hadeed part 27, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِعْلَمُوْۤا اَنَّمَا الْحَیٰوةُ الدُّنْیَا لَعِبٌ وَّ لَهْوٌ وَّ زِیْنَةٌ وَّ تَفَاخُرٌۢ بَیْنَكُمْ وَ تَكَاثُرٌ فِی الْاَمْوَالِ وَ الْاَوْلَادِؕ-

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: You should know that the life of this world is nothing but play and amusement, and adornment, and your boasting amongst yourselves, and the desire to surpass each other in wealth and children.

It is written in Tafseer Siraat-ul-Jinaan about the above-mentioned blessed Ayah: The reality of the world is being mentioned in this Ayah so that Muslims do not feel inclined to it because the world is very less beneficial and is about to end soon. In this blessed Ayah, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has mentioned five things about the world. (1, 2) The life of the world is only fun and frolic that is the pastime of children. Further, to work hard only for attaining it is nothing but a waste of time. (3) The life of the world is the name of beauty and adornment that is the way of women. (4, 5) The life of the world is the name of feeling proud and being arrogant of one another and wanting more wealth and children than others. When this is the state of the world and it has such defects, one should become occupied with the acts by which his Hereafter life may improve instead of taking interest in it and making efforts to gain it. (Siraat-ul-Jinaan, vol. 9, pp. 740) Let’s now listen to a few sayings of pious predecessors رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه about the reality of the world.

Daughter of Satan

Sayyiduna ‘Ali Khawwaas رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: The world is a daughter of the cursed Satan. Anyone loving the world is the husband of Satan’s daughter. Satan visits the world-seeking person because of his daughter. So O

my brother! If you want to stay safe from Satan, do not establish relationship with his daughter (i.e. the world) . (Al-Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 19)

Blue-eyed ugly old woman

Sayyiduna Fudayl Bin ‘Iyaad رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated that Sayyiduna ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَـعَـالٰی عَـنْـهُمَا said: On the Day of Judgement, an extremely ugly blue-eyed old woman with her teeth sticking out will appear in front of people. They will be asked, ‘Do you know her?’ People will reply: ‘We seek refuge in the blessed Court of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ from recognizing her.’ They will be told, ‘This is the same world you used to be proud of; you used to break off relations due to it [and] used to feel jealousy and enmity towards one another because of it.’ Then it (the world in the form of the old woman) will be put into Hell. She will call, ‘O my Creator! Where are my followers and my people?’ Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will say, ‘Bring them also with her.’ (Zamm-ud-Dunya ma’ Mawsu’ah Imam Ibn Abid Dunya, vol. 5, pp. 72, Raqm 123)

دُنیا کو تُو کیا جانے یہ بِس کی گانٹھ ہے حَرَّافہ صورت دیکھو ظالم کی تو کیسی بھولی بھالی ہے

شہد دِکھائے زہر پلائے، قاتل، ڈائن، شوہر کُش اس مُردار پہ کیا للچایا دنیا دیکھی بھالی ہے

Reality of the world

It is stated in the book ‘ Malfuzaat A’la Hadrat ’ published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah; condemning the world, A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: It is stated in a blessed Hadees, ‘ If the value of the world were equal to even a mosquito’s wing to Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ, He عَزَّوَجَلَّ would not give even a mouthful of water from it to the unbelievers.’ (Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, pp. 144, vol. 4, Hadees 2327). The world is disgraced and hence has been given to the disgraced. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has not [mercifully] seen it ever since He عَزَّوَجَلَّ has created it. The world is hanging between the sky and the earth, crying and saying, ‘O my Lord! Why are You displeased with me?’ (A’la Hadrat رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه further said): Gold and silver are the enemies of Allah Almighty. Those loving gold and silver in the world will be called on the Day of Judgement in these words: Where are the people who loved the enemy of Allah Almighty. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ keeps the world away

from His beloved bondmen as a mother keeps her ill child away from harmful things. (Nayki ki Da’wat, pp. 265)

حُبّ دُنیا میں دل پھنس گیا ہے نفس بدکار حاوی ہوا ہے

ہائے شیطاں بھی پیچھے پڑا ہے یا خدا تجھ سے میری دعا ہے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, the character of pious predecessors is a role model for us. These personages know the reality of the world very well. The world comes to them, but they always prefer the Hereafter to the world. Let’s listen to a faith-refreshing parable for persuasion.

The caliph who took no interest in the world

When Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar bin Abdul Aziz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه became the caliph, he adopted piety and contentment (became uninterested in the world), rejected luxurious life, stopped eating delicious foods and started using very simple food. Nu’aym bin Salamat رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: I went to Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Umar bin Abdul Aziz and saw that he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه was eating bread with olive oil. (Seerat Ibn Jawzi, pp. 180)

Yunus bin Sheeb رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: After caliphate, I saw Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar bin Abdul Aziz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه in the state that if I had wanted I could have counted his ribs without touching. (Seerat Ibn Jawzi, pp. 181) His slave has said: One day I came to my master, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen, he was eating red lentil. I asked: ‘ کُلَّ یَومٍ عَدَسٌ! ’ i.e. why daily lentils? His wife replied: ‘ ہَذَاطَعَامُ مَولَاکَ اَمِیْرِ الْمُؤْمِنِیْن! ’ i.e. this is the food of your master, Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . (Seerat Ibn Jawzi, pp. 181)

How great red lentil is

سُـبْحٰـنَ ال ـ لّٰــه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! May I be sacrificed on Ameer-ul-Mu`mineen Sayyiduna Umar bin Abdul Aziz’s act of disinclination towards the world! Despite being the caliph of so vast kingdom, he رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would eat simple food. We, therefore, should, following in the footsteps of Allah-loving people, become simple and eat lentils and vegetables happily too. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! How glorious is the red lentil, as it has been declared the blessed thing in a blessed Hadees. The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: You must eat red lentils because it contains blessing that softens the heart and increases tears. It contains the blessings of 70 blessed Ambiya عَـلَـيْهِمُ السَّلَام including Sayyiduna ‘Isa عَـلَيْـهِ الـسَّـلَام . (Firdaus-ul-Akhbar, vol. 2, pp. 67, Hadees 3876)

Sayyiduna Imam Sa’labi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has stated: Sayyiduna Umar bin Abdul Aziz رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه would eat bread one day with olive oil, one day with meat and one day with red lentil. A pious person رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: Red lentil and olive are the foods of righteous people. Red lentil makes a body thin and thin body is helpful in worship. Red lentil does not increase lust as is increased by meat. (Tafseer Qurtubi, vol. 1, pp. 346)

میں کم کھانا کھانے کی عادت بناؤں

خدایا کرم! استقامت بھی پاؤں

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The world and Hereafter!

Dear Islamic brothers! It is a true fact that the world will end very soon compared to the everlasting Hereafter. The world-seeker apparently is very happy for achieving this world; he has high hopes from it; he is lost in its colourfulness, but when he realizes the truth, he regrets. One who, living in this world, tries to make his Hereafter better, makes his world and Hereafter both better. On the other hand, the one who only earns the world living in this world, gets deprived of the benefits and fruits of the Hereafter. Satan likes the one who is lost in the colourfulness of the world, whereas the one

who prepares for the Hereafter becomes the beloved of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . The path to the world apparently looks easy due to Nafsani (carnal) desires and high hopes, but its end is very bad. The path to the Hereafter apparently looks tough, but its destination is the beautiful and everlasting place of Paradise. Since the world is very close to us compared to the Hereafter, our heart is very quickly attracted to it, whereas, the Hereafter is after the world, hence people become heedless of it. Remember! It is one of the reasons to call the world by the (name دنیا) world that the world is closer to us than the Hereafter.

Why world is called world?

Shaykh-e-Tareeqat, Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat, the founder of Dawat-e-Islami, ‘Allamah Maulana Abu Bilal Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qaadiri Razavi دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه has narrated on page 260 of his book ‘ Nayki ki Da’wat ’ [Call to Righteousness]: The word (دُنۡيَا) [i.e. the world] literally means ‘closeness’. That is to say, it is called the world because it is closer to humans than the Hereafter, or due to the reason that, it is closer to the heart because of its desires and (carnal) pleasures. (Al-Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 17)

What is the world?

Sayyiduna ‘Allamah Badruddin ‘Ayni رَحْمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ تَـعَالٰی عَـلَيْه has said: Before the home of the Afterlife, all creatures are [referred to as] the world. (‘Umda-tul-Qaari, vol. 1, pp. 52) Therefore from this viewpoint, gold, silver and every essential and inessential thing bought by them is included in the world. (Al-Hadiqa-tun-Nadiyyah, vol. 1, pp. 17)

Which world is good and which is condemnable?

Dear Islamic brothers! Remember! There are three types of worldly things:

1 There are only two worldly things that help a person in the Hereafter and their benefit is obtained even after the death. (1) Knowledge and (2) Deed. Deed means that one should worship Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ with sincerity.

2 The things whose benefit is limited to the world only and one cannot get any fruit of it in the Hereafter such as getting pleasure from sins and gaining benefits more than the need from permissible things, for example a piece of land, property, gold, silver, nice clothes and eating delicious foods are all included in the condemnable type of the world.

3 The type in which there are things that are helpful in performing virtuous deeds like essential food, clothes are also a good type of the world, but this world will be condemnable if one aims to get only immediate worldly benefit and pleasure from it. (Summarized from: Ihya-ul-‘Uloom, vol. 3, pp. 270-271)

مت لگا تُو دل یہاں پچھتائے گا کس طرح جنّت میں بھائی جائے گا؟

لندن و پیرس کے سپنے چھوڑ دے بس مدینے ہی سے رشتہ جوڑ لے

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! The world is like an inn in which travellers come and stay and after staying for a few days they leave. The one who goes to an inn and stays for a few days never has high hopes and takes interest in its liveliness. We, therefore, should not engross ourselves in this temporary home [the world], because one day we have to depart from it. This world is not our destination, but Paradise. Let’s listen to three blessed sayings of the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم in order to increase disinclination in the world and develop contemplation of the Hereafter in the heart and get the Madani pearls of advice and admonition.

1 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make all the affairs of the person who is always worried about the world (and does not care for the religion) troublesome and his poverty will always be in front of him and he will get the world as much as is written in his destiny and the one whose intention is towards the Hereafter, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ will make all of his matters proper for his ease of mind and will put the unwillingness of this world in his heart and the world will come to him by itself. (Ibn Majah, vol. 4, pp. 424, Hadees 4105)

2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The world is the home of the one who has no home (in the Hereafter) and the world is the wealth of the one who has no other wealth and the person who saves for the world has no wisdom. (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 375, Hadees 10638)

3 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: The one who loves his world, harms his Hereafter and the one who loves his Hereafter, harms his world. Hence you prefer the immortal (Hereafter) to the mortal (world). (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 7, pp. 165, Hadees 19717)

Regarding the above-mentioned blessed Hadees Mufti Ahmad Yar Khan Na’eemi رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: From this blessed saying it has become obvious that the love of the world and the Hereafter both cannot be together in one heart; the world is opposite to the Hereafter. Imam Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has said: The lower rank of Knowledge, wisdom and faith is that a human should know that the world is mortal and the Hereafter is immortal. That is to say, living in this world he should not become busy with the world, but rather prepare for the Hereafter. (Musnad Imam Ahmad, vol. 7, pp. 18)

وہ دنیا کی رنگینی میں کھویا رہا برباد ہوا

جس نے عشقِ نبی سے دل کو خالی اور ویران کیا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

World is like sand!

Dear Islamic brothers! Have you heard! In the above-mentioned blessed Ahadees, people who love this world have been strongly condemned. We, therefore, should not only have a strong desire for the world, but rather we should collect virtuous deeds for the Hereafter because the world is like sand. No matter how much sand a person gets in his fist, all the sand gets out slowly from the fist in the form of particles and finally the fist remains empty. Same is the state of this deceitful world.

Earning money and then spending it on illnesses

A man becomes loyal to the world throughout his life; for earning money he works hard day and night, does part-time job and works 20 hours a day. In short, he spends his day by thinking that he has to earn money; he spends his night by having a desire to earn money; his heart beats with the same desire that he has to earn money; he takes steps with the same curiosity that he has to earn money. But alas! The money for which he does not care for health, works overtime, wastes precious months and years of his life, works very hard day and night and does not bother about Halal and Haraam; the very same money is spent on his illnesses later on. Of course! When a person becomes old, he starts suffering from different diseases. Now neither can he do anything for the world, nor for the Hereafter.

Do not forget death

Giving warning about the mischiefs of the world, Imam Muhammad Ghazali رَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَالٰی عَلَيْه has written with reference to a pious person: O people! Perform virtuous deeds in this spare time and keep fearing Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ . Do not be happy with hopes and nor forget your death. Do not get attracted to the world; undoubtedly, it is deceitful and comes before you after being adorned and puts you in mischief [Fitnah] by its desires. The world becomes adorned for its followers as a bride gets adorned. The world has killed its so many lovers and disgraced those who wanted to get satisfaction from it. Therefore see it from the viewpoint of reality because it is a place full of troubles. Its Creator has condemned it; its new gets old and the one who desires for it also dies. May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ have mercy on you!

Wake up to the fact and open your eyes from sleep (of heedlessness) before this announcement is made: So-and-so is ill and his illness has become severe. Is there any medicine for him? Or is there any way by which he can be taken to a doctor? Now Hakeems [and doctors] are called for you, but the hope of cure dies. It is then said: So-and-so has made a will and counted his money. Then it is said: Now he has lost his speaking ability; now he does not talk to his brothers and recognize his neighbours. Now your forehead is perspiring; the voice of people weeping has started coming and you have

been sure of your death; after you have closed your eyelashes, the presumption of your death has turned to confirmation; the tongue is trembling; your siblings are weeping; you are said that this is your such and such son, this is your such and such brother, but you have been stopped from talking. Hence you cannot speak; your tongue has been sealed due to which voice does not come out. You then die and your soul gets out of your body parts completely; it is then taken to the sky. At that time your brothers gather, bring your shroud and you are given Ghusl [ritual bath] and then you are wrapped in a shroud. Now the ones who inquired after you sit silently and the ones who were jealous of you also feel relaxed. Your family members turn attention to your wealth and your deeds get sealed.

دل سے دنیا کی محبّت دُور کر دل نبی کے عشق سے معمور کر

اَشک مت دنیا کے غم میں تُو بہا ہاں نبی کے غم میں خوب آنسو بہا

Holiday I’tikaf [Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf] — One of the 12 Madani activities

In order to get rid of the love of the world, increase the passion for the contemplation of the Hereafter and attain steadfastness in virtuous deeds remain associated with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami and take part actively in the 12 Madani activities of Zayli Halqah. A weekly Madani activity out of 12 Madani activities is ‘Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf’.

On a holiday, devotees of Rasool go to areas of the city, surrounding villages and suburbs to fill the Masajid with Salah-offering people and also present the call towards righteousness to the local devotees of Rasool to gain and impart Islamic knowledge. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf is the best source of teaching Sunnahs, manners and the method of delivering Dars, etc., to Islamic brothers. By virtue of the blessings of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf Masajid are filled with Salah-offering Muslims. By virtue of the blessing of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf every moment that is spent in the Masjid will be considered to be worship. By virtue of Yaum-e-Ta’teel I’tikaf one will attain the excellence of loving Masjid and spending more and more time in it. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, spending more time in the Masjid has great excellence:

Sayyiduna Abu Sa’eed Khudri رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated that the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said: When you see someone coming and going to Masjid abundantly, give evidence of his faith because in Ayah 18 of Surah Taubah, part 10, Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ has stated:

اِنَّمَا یَعْمُرُ مَسٰجِدَ اللّٰهِ مَنْ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَ الْیَوْمِ الْاٰخِرِ وَ اَقَامَ الصَّلٰوةَ وَ اٰتَى الزَّكٰوةَ

Translation from Kanz-ul-Iman: Only those enliven the Masajid of Allah who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish Salah and pay the obligatory charity. (Part 10, Surah At-Taubah, Ayah 18)

(Sunan-ut-Tirmizi, vol. 4, pp. 18, Hadees 2626)

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ also enable us to fill Masajid with Salah-offering Muslims, offer Salah and pay Zakah! Good company is extremely essential to attain steadfastness in virtuous deeds, otherwise, sometimes reading and listening to the virtues of virtuous deeds a person makes his mind that he will not disobey Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ and will take interest only in virtuous deeds. But when he falls into bad company it becomes a hurdle for him in attaining steadfastness in virtuous deeds. Sometimes the work which should be avoided not only wastes his time, but it also deprives him of many virtuous deeds.

I was fond of flying kites!

An Islamic brother of Bab-ul-Madinah (Karachi) gave the following account: Unfortunately, I spent my past life in sins. I was fond of flying kites and my hobbies were playing computer games and marbles. I would poke my nose into everyone’s affair, argue with people unnecessarily and would pick fights without any reason.

Luckily, due to the individual efforts of an Islamic brother I performed I’tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan in a Masjid in my area. I saw some extremely pleasant dreams and attained immense peace of mind. After this I was privileged to perform I’tikaf for another two years. Making individual

effort, once the Muazzin of the Masjid convinced me to attend the weekly Sunnah-inspiring Ijtima’ of Dawat-e-Islami in its global Madani Markaz, Faizan-e-Madinah Babul Madinah, Karachi. The attraction and refulgence of the preacher’s face captured my heart and I associated myself with the Madani environment of Dawat-e-Islami. اَلْـحَمْـدُ لـِلّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ! I have also grown my beard as per Sunnah.

بگڑے اَخلاق سارے سَنوَر جائیں گے مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

جامِ عشقِ مُحمد بھی ہاتھ آئے گا مَدَنی ماحول میں کرلو تُم اِعتِکاف

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Importance of virtuous deeds

Dear Islamic brothers! Alas! We are engrossed in the colourfulness of this world instead of thinking about the Hereafter; we are busy constructing nice houses; we decorate our houses extremely well. We want to spend our lives by having plenty of money, nice and beautiful cars, beautiful and splendid palaces. Just ponder, how long will these things benefit us? Shall we take all these things to our grave? Shall we get virtuous deeds in exchange for them in the Hereafter? Of course, no! This bank balance, wealth and property all will be left in the world; nothing will be helpful in the grave. It will be only our virtuous deeds that will help us there. It will be our virtuous deeds that will help us to succeed in answering to the questions of Munkar and Nakeer. It will be our virtuous deeds that will console us during the terror of the grave. It will be our virtuous deeds due to which the narrowness of the grave will turn to expansion. It will be our virtuous deeds that will shine brightly in the darkness of the grave. It will be our virtuous deeds that will become an obstacle in the way of the torment of the grave. It will be our virtuous deeds that will bring us salvation not only in the grave, but also after the grave from the heat of the plain of Mahshar and its thirst. It will be our virtuous deeds that will help us to pass over Siraat Bridge successfully. It will be our virtuous deeds that will help us during our accountability and bring salvation from the torment of Hell. Therefore become anxious for virtuous deeds.

Three types of friends

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Three things go with the deceased: (1) His family members (2) his wealth and (3) his deeds. Then two things return and one stays with him. His family members and wealth return, whereas his deeds go with him.’ (Sahih Bukhari, vol. 4, pp. 250, Hadees 6514)

Sayyiduna Abu Hurayrah رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ has narrated: When a person dies, the angels say: ‘ مَا قَدَّمَ ’ i.e. what did he send forward? And people ask: ‘ مَا خَلَّفَ ’ i.e. what did he leave behind? (Shu’ab-ul-Iman, vol. 7, pp. 328, Hadees 10475) That is, at the time of death heirs are anxious for the wealth [he leaves] as to what he is leaving to them. The angels, who come to seize the soul, count his deeds and check his beliefs. (Mirat-ul-Manajih, vol. 7, pp. 49)

Dear Islamic brothers! It is wise not to become anxious for the world and its goods, but rather become busy performing virtuous deeds.

Only the part of the wealth we spend belong to us out of the wealth for [accumulating] which we end our lives. The part that is left is not ours, but rather it will belong to our heirs. Therefore it is wise to overcome the desire for wealth and the world and pay attention to make the Hereafter better. This money has not been faithful to anyone; it is really the dirt of hands. For example, if someone saves millions or rather billions of rupees in his life, even then he will be able to use only the amount that he can.

It can be understood like this that a person is feeling very hungry; in front of him a cauldron of biryani is being cooked; the light pleasant aroma of the biryani is pleasing his heart and mind; his heart is attracted to it and it makes his mouth water; he feels like eating the whole cauldron, but in reality he will not eat much from it; only one plate of biryani will be sufficient for him. If he eats too much, even then he will not be able to eat after having two or three plates. Sometimes it also happens that we satiate our appetite, but not heart. We feel like eating more because it is very tasty, but we do not eat because we cannot eat any more since our stomach is full. Similarly, whatever we earn, whether we save millions, or rather billions of rupees, we will spend only that much by which we will be able to eat our fill. Similarly, we will use the length of cloth by which one suit can be made. In short, if we accumulate

enormous worldly possessions and wealth, even then we will be able to use as much as we can and the rest will be left in the world.

The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘A bondman keeps on saying ‘my wealth, my wealth’ though he has only three parts in his wealth: One which he has finished by consuming, second which he has worn out and the third which he has given to someone else (in the path of Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ) and saved. And apart from it whatever he has, all is going to finish and he is going to leave it for other people.’ (Sahih Muslim, Kitab-uz-Zuhd, pp. 1582, Hadees 2959)

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Majlis for Traders!

It is a fact that whatever we have saved in the world will be left here. Therefore, we should form our habit to give Sadaqah and charity as per our financial ability in order to dispel the love of the world from our hearts and attain blessing in Halal sustenance. اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ, by virtue of its blessings, the love of wealth will be dispelled from the heart. Moreover, the money that has been earned by Haraam means because of being greedy for earning more and more by forgetting to differentiate Halal from Haraam, can become troublesome for us in the world and the Hereafter both.

Islam has given its followers very clear principles of business, but unfortunately a lack of knowledge and the colourfulness of the world have kept Muslims of today away from acting upon these golden principles. Therefore it is the need of the hour that someone teaches these businessmen the real Islam. Under the supervision of Dawat-e-Islami, the Madani movement of the devotees of Rasool, a Majlis namely, ‘Majlis Tajiran’ has been established. The aim of this Majlis is to create awareness in the people, who are working in the field of commerce, with the Islamic teachings about business/commerce, spread the message of Dawat-e-Islami to them and give them the Madani mind-set to live their lives as per this Madani aim, ‘I must strive to reform myself and people of the entire world, اِنْ شَــآءَال ـ لّٰـه عَزَّوَجَلَّ ’, by associating them with Dawat-e-Islami.

In order to achieve this Madani aim and have Madani environment in markets and business places, an effort is made to give Madani Dars [Dars from Faizan-e-Sunnat and other booklets of Ameer-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat دَامَـتْ بَـرَكَـاتُـهُـمُ الْـعَـالِـيَـه) as per the method given by Madani Markaz in the Masjid or at any suitable place. Traders are also persuaded to participate practically in Madani activities. In the Madani Halqahs, rulings on Salah, Sunnahs and manners of different topics are taught, from time to time, to devotees of Rasool. They are also made to memorize Du’as. An effort is also made to spread the education of the Holy Quran amongst traders through Madrasa-tul-Madinah for adult Islamic brothers.

الله کرم ایسا کرے تجھ پہ جہاں میں

اے دعوتِ اسلامی تری دُھوم مَچی ہو

May Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ dispel the love of the world from our hearts and bless us with His sacred love and the blessed love of His Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم!

اٰمِیْن بِجَاہِ النَّبِیِ الْاَمِیْن صَلَّی اللّٰہُ تَعَالٰی عَلَیْہِ واٰلِہٖ وَسَلَّمَ

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Summary of speech

Dear Islamic brothers! In today’s speech, we have heard that

٭ The love of the world causes sudden death.

٭ The love of the world makes a person commit sins.

٭ The world is the daughter of the cursed Satan.

٭ The love of the world makes a person heedless of the preparation of the death, grave and the Hereafter.

٭ The love of the world becomes the cause of the desire to have nice clothes, good food and splendid houses.

٭ The love of the world creates the greed for getting wealth.

٭ Having love for the world in the heart means you have been deceived by Satan.

٭ The one who loves the world will be put into the Hell after being dragged in the Hereafter.

٭ Allah-loving people would always get away from the love of the world.

کِھلکِھلا کر ہنس رہا ہے بے خبر! قبر میں روئے گا چیخیں مار کر

کر لے توبہ ربّ کی رحمت ہے بڑی قبر میں ورنہ سزا ہوگی کڑی

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Dear Islamic brothers! In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the excellence of Sunnah as well as some Sunan and manners. The Rasool of Rahmah, the Intercessor of the Ummah صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said, ‘Whoever loves my Sunnah, loves me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Jannah.’ (Ibn ‘Asakir, vol. 9, pp. 343)

سینہ تری سُنَّت کا مدینہ بنے آقا

جنَّت میں پڑوسی مجھے تم اپنا بنانا

صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

Madani pearls of earning Halal sustenance

Two sayings of the Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم:

1 The Holy Nabi صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: Jannah is for the one who has pure earnings. (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, pp. 72, Hadees 4616)

2 The Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has said: There are some sins whose expiation is neither Salah nor fast nor Hajj nor ‘Umrah. Their expiation is those troubles a person suffers in search of Halal earnings. (Mu’jam-ul-Awsat, vol. 1, pp. 42, Hadees 102, Fatawa-e-Razawiyyah, vol. 29, pp. 314 - 318)

3 It is Fard for both the employer and the employee to learn the necessary Shar’i rulings pertaining to employment as per their need. If they don’t learn, they will be sinners. (Halal Tariqay say Kamanay kay 50 Madani Phool, pp. 4)

4 At the time of hiring an employee, it is mandatory to fix the employment period, working hours, salary, etc. beforehand. (Ibid)

5 An employee should note down the correct time of his arrival and departure in the attendance register. If he dishonestly writes incorrect time and receives full salary without performing full duty, he will be a sinner and deserve torment of hellfire. (Ibid, pp. 7)

6 Obtaining a fake educational certificate to get the salary increased or the rank elevated is impermissible and a sin because it is based on lying and fraud. (Ibid, pp. 8)

7 The employee should remain active during his duty and avoid the acts causing laziness. For instance, if late sleeping at night or even Nafl fast causes laziness at work, he is to avoid such acts as the one who deliberately gets lazy at work will be sinner even if he gets the money deducted from his wage or salary. (Ibid, pp. 8)

8 If an employee cannot do work as per the contract of employment; for example, he is a teacher but is unable to teach properly, so he should inform the employer about it immediately. (Ibid, pp. 11)

9 If the contract of employment is made for a specific period of time, e.g. for one year, - the contract of employment cannot be terminated without the consent of both parties. If an employer threatens to dismiss an employee without any reasons before the agreed period of employment ends or an employee threatens to give up the job whereas the employer needs the employee to continue working, this is not right.

However, under certain Shar’i compulsion, any of them can terminate the contract before the decided period ends. (Ibid, pp. 12)

10 Watchmen, security guards or policemen etc. are required to guard (a house, building etc.) remaining awake. If they go to sleep deliberately during duty hours, they will be sinner. Furthermore, they will have to get their salary deducted for the amount of time during which they slept or remained heedless to their job (whether deliberately or unintentionally). (Ibid, pp. 19)

To learn various Sunan, obtain the following books, Bahar-e-Shari’ah part 16 comprising of 312 pages and Sunnatayn aur Adaab, comprising of 120 pages, both published by Maktaba-tul-Madinah, the publishing department of Dawat-e-Islami. One of the best ways to learn Sunan is to travel in the Madani Qafilahs of Dawat-e-Islami with the lovers of the Beloved Rasool.

عاشقانِ رسول، آئیں سنّت کے پھول

دینے لینے چلیں، قافلے میں چلو

[ صَلُّوۡا عَلَى الۡحَبِيۡب صَلَّى اللّٰهُ تَعَالٰى عَلٰى مُحَمَّد

The 6 Salawaat-‘Alan-Nabi and 2 Du’as that are recited in the Sunnah-inspiring weekly Ijtima’ (congregation) of Dawat-e-Islami:

٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭ … ٭

1. The Salat-‘Alan-Nabi for the night preceding Friday

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ وَ سَلِّمْ وَبَارِكْ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ النَّبِیِّ الْاُمِّیِّ الْحَبِیْبِ الْعَالِی الْقَدْرِ الْعَظِیْمِ الْجَاہِ وَ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَ صَحْبِہٖ وَ سَلِّمْ

The saints of Islam have quoted that whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi at least once on the night preceding Friday [the night between Thursday and Friday] on a regular basis will be blessed with the vision of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم at the time of death, as well as at the time of his burial into the grave, to the extent that he will see the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم lowering him into the grave with his own merciful hands. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 151)

2. All sins forgiven

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِ نَا وَ مَوْلَانَا مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ عَلٰی اٰلِہٖ وَسَلِّمْ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Anas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُ that the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘Whoever recites this Salat upon me whilst standing, then prior to his sitting back; and if he recites it whilst sitting, then before he stands back, his sins will be forgiven.’ (Ibid, pp. 65)

3. 70 Portals of mercy

صَلَّی اللّٰہُ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ

Whoever recites this Salat-’Alan-Nabi, 70 portals of mercy are opened for him. (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 277)

4. The reward of 600,000 Salawat-‘Alan-Nabi

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی سَیِّدِنَا مُحَمَّدٍ عَدَدَ

مَا فِیْ عِلْمِ اللّٰہِ صَلَاۃً دَ اۤ ئِمَۃًۢ بِدَوَامِ مُلْكِ اللّٰہِ

Shaykh Ahmad Saawi عَـلَيْهِ رَحۡمَةُ الـلّٰـهِ الۡـهَادِی reports from some saints of Islam that the one reciting this Salat-’Alan-Nabi once receives the reward of reciting Salat-’Alan-Nabi 600,000 times. (Afdal-us-Salawat ‘ala Sayyid-is-Sadat, pp. 149)

5. Nearness to the Distinguished Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم

اَللّٰھُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ کَمَا تُحِبُّ وَ تَرضٰی لَہٗ

One day somebody came [to the blessed court of the Beloved and Blessed Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم ], and the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم made him sit in between himself and Sayyiduna Abu Bakr Siddeeq رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُ . The respected companions رَضِىَ الـلّٰـهُ تَعَالٰی عَـنْهُم were surprised as to who that honoured person was. When he had left, the Beloved Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم said, ‘When he recites Salat upon me, he does so in these words.’ (Al-Qaul-ul-Badi’, pp. 125)

6. Durood-e-Shafa’at

اَللّٰہُمَّ صَلِّ عَلٰی مُحَمَّدٍ وَّ اَنْزِلْہُ الْمَقْعَدَ الْمُقَرَّبَ عِنْدَكَ یَوْمَ الْقِیَامَۃِ

The Greatest Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated: The one who recites this Salat upon me, my intercession will become Wajib for him.

(Attargheeb Wattarheeb, vol. 2, pp. 329, Hadees 31)

1. Good deeds for 1000 days

جَزَی اللّٰہُ عَنَّا مُحَمَّدًا مَا ھُوَ اَھْلُہٗ

It is narrated by Sayyiduna Ibn ‘Abbas رَضِىَ اللهُ تَعَالٰی عَنْهُمَا that the Noble Rasool صَلَّى اللهُ تَعَالٰى عَلَيْهِ وَاٰلِهٖ وَسَلَّم has stated, ‘For the reciter of above supplication, seventy angels write good deeds (in his account) for 1000 days.’

(Majma’-uz-Zawaid, pp. 254, vol. 10, Hadees 17305)

2. An easy way to spend every night in worship

The following narration has been mentioned on page 187 of Gharaib-ul-Quran, ‘If anyone recites the following Du’a three times at night it is as if he has found Layla-tul-Qadr.’ We should recite it every night. Here is the Du’a:

لَاۤ اِلٰهَ اِلَّا اللّٰهُ الْحَلِيْمُ الْكَرِيْمُ

سُبْحٰنَ اللّٰهِ رَبِّ السَّمٰوٰتِ السَّبْعِ وَ رَبِّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْم

Translation: There is none worthy of worship except Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ Who is ‘ حَلِيۡم ’ and ‘ كَرِيۡم ’. Allah عَزَّوَجَلَّ is ‘ سُبۡحَان ’, Rab of the seven skies and Rab of the magnificent ‘Arsh.

